K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that when he rang Tesco Personal Finance PLC to change his address to 
the Republic  of Ireland,  the bank didnt inform him of a government tax that would  be 
charged to his credit card account.
background
Mr D moved from the UK to the Republic of Ireland (ROI)  in September  2017.  Before  doing  
so he rang Tesco bank to change his credit card address. In April 2018  he noticed two 
charges had been made to his credit card account.  He rang Tesco  bank and was told that 
the ROI government  levied an annual tax (stamp  duty) on, amongst other things, all credit 
cards. And it was these charges  one for each financial year - that Mr D had identified  on 
his statement. 
Mr D cancelled his card and complained  to Tesco bank. He said the bank should have 
informed him of the charge when  he rang to change his address. If it had done  so he would 
have closed his account before moving to the ROI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. She said the stamp duty 
charge was one that the bank was required to make by the ROI government. And as such 
she didnt consider that it would have been  reasonable  to expect the bank to have alerted Mr 
D to this government  tax when he rang to change his address.
Mr D disagreed saying,  in summary,  that as he had been told that Tesco  bank staff knew  
about the charge it was incumbent  on them to tell him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ROI government imposes  an annual tax on holders of, amongst other things, credit 
cards where the issuer is a financial institution located outside the country, but the card 
holder has a billing address  in the country.  Financial institutions  have no discretion in either  
determining the level of this charge or on whether  to apply it.
Mr D complains that Tesco bank  should have informed him of the charge when he rang to 
supply his new ROI address. He said if the bank had done  so he would have cancelled  the 
card before his move, thereby avoiding the charge.
But Im afraid that I disagree with Mr D on this. The charge is part of the tax regime 
determined by the ROI government and I do not consider that financial institutions should 
bear the responsibility for informing  customers about  the details of the government  tax 
system. I say this even  though financial institutions  are required to collect the stamp  duty tax 
on behalf of the ROI government. It therefore  follows  that I dont consider that Tesco  bank 
did anything wrong,  or that it acted unreasonably,  in not informing Mr D about the ROI tax 
when he rang to change his address.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN73659062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7365906