K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Casheuronet UK LLC (Casheuronet)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about ten payday  loans and an instalment loan Casheuronet (under its 
trading names  of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket)  provided  to Mr W from April 2011  
onwards. Mr Ws last loan was provided in December 2013.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint  and thought the loans  from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Casheuronet disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr W could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr W could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this 
is wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict 
Ref: DRN79480842pounds and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments  being  affordable  on this basis 
might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three to five would most  likely 
have shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mr Ws income. 
In these circumstances, there  was a significant risk that Mr W wouldnt have been 
able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr W, I think  that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to 
make his loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr W was into his eleventh month of owing  Casheuronet money. In my 
view, Mr Ws loan history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement   hed incurred late 
fees on loan three. Mr Ws sixth loan was for twenty  times the amount of his first 
loan.   
Mr W continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. And he was even  provided  with an instalment  loan while he had an overdue 
and outstanding balance on his tenth  payday  loan.  So Casheuronet ought to have  
realised it was more likely  than not Mr W was having  to borrow  further to cover  the 
hole the repayment of his previous  loans left in his finances and that Mr Ws 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr W was provided with loans for a period  of over two years.  I accept that some of 
the loans were for smaller  amounts. But Mr W wasnt making  any real inroads into 
what he owed Casheuronet and his indebtedness  was being prolonged for an 
extended period  of time. This led to Mr W paying large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Casheuronet  over an extended period.
I think that Mr W lost out because Casheuronet continued to provide borrowing from loan 
three onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN79480843the extended period of time Mr W owed Casheuronet  money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint and Casheuronet should  put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on payday loans three  to ten and the 
instalment loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr W owed Casheuronet money means that any information still 
recorded about payday loans  six to ten and the instalment  loan is adverse. So all 
entries about these  loans  (where they remain) should be removed from Mr Ws credit  
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Casheuronet) should  pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948084