K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that PRA Group (UK) Limited (PRA) pursued him for a debt he does not 
owe and cannot  afford,  pressured him into setting up a standing  order  to pay it, failed to 
send him evidence that he owed the debt,  and failed to address his complaint.
background
In December 2017 PRA sent Mr L a letter saying that he owed it over £8,000 in respect of a 
credit card. He replied  to say that he could not afford  the debt, due to being  unemployed and 
in poor health.  He also said he did not recognise the debt, and asked PRA to send him 
evidence to prove he owed it, including the credit card agreement and statements, and all 
other relevant documents. He claimed  he had been pressured in a phone call by PRAs 
recovery agents into setting up a standing order to PRA. He asked for a letter  of apology  and 
£50 compensation  for stress.
In February 2018  Mr L brought this complaint to our Service. He repeated  his concerns, and 
also said that he had not received a response  from PRA. He asked for a letter  of apology 
from PRA and £100.
PRA provided our service  with a copy of a final response letter dated 22 January 2018  and 
addressed to Mr L; a copy of a credit card agreement  between Mr L and a third party,  dated 
July 2002; a list of credit  card transactions between August 2002 and November 2010; a 
2012 letter  to Mr L informing him that Aktiv Kapital  (UK) Limited (a former name of PRA) had 
bought the debt; and PRAs account notes  and payment history. PRA denied that it or its 
agents had ever contacted Mr L by phone before he complained.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said PRAs evidence  showed that it had 
never contacted Mr L by phone, and that a payment arrangement was already in place 
before PRA bought the debt. She thought PRA had treated  Mr L positively once he had told 
it about his circumstances, and had put his account  on hold when he complained. She asked 
PRA to provide  full statements so that Mr L could  see just how the balance  had accrued, but 
she thought she had already seen enough  evidence  to agree that Mr L did owe the debt.
Mr L did not accept  that decision. He insisted he could not afford  the debt, because of his 
health and because his benefits left him with no disposable income. Since then, PRA has 
paid £160 to Mr Ls GP to write a report about  his health. On reviewing the report, PRA did 
not agree  to write  off the debt, but agreed  to put the account on hold for twelve  months (that 
was in July 2018). Meanwhile, Mr L asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The evidence I have  seen, summarised  above,  strongly suggests  that Mr L did obtain a 
credit card in 2002. The card number is recorded  on the credit card agreement, and it 
matches the number on the transactions summary for the entries from the beginning up to 
November 2008,  when the number  changes.  I think that must be because  Mr L was issued 
with a new card. Mr L made frequent payments to the account, and for the first four years 
these payments were  often considerable. But from late 2006, the payments became smaller, 
Ref: DRN74675502and from June 2010 he began making  token payments of £1 a month. The account was sold 
in November that year.
It was sold again  to PRA in 2012,  when it had another name,  Aktiv  Kapital. Ive seen Aktiv 
Kapitals letter to Mr L  at his current address  dated 27 April 2012, notifying  him about 
this. The account  balance on the letter almost  matches the closing balance in November 
2010: it is exactly £15 less, which is to be expected, after 15 monthly payments of £1. So 
I accept that the debt PRA now owns originated with the credit  card Mr L had in 2002.  
I have seen Mr Ls annual  account  summary  for 2014, correctly addressed, in which PRA 
told him it had changed  its name, and told him the same of its collection agency. So Im 
satisfied that PRA kept him informed about who owned his debt, and who was administering  
it.
I havent seen  a statement with a running  balance, so I havent  verified  whether the 
outstanding balance is the correct  figure,  or investigated how that much debt was incurred. 
Our investigator asked  PRA for this, but PRA only has statements for the period since  it 
bought the debt. It would be possible to verify the balance figure by adding  up all the credits  
and debits in the 11-page transactions summary, which covers the period from 2002 to 
2010, since when  the only transactions have been  token repayments.  But there is no need  
for me to do that. (Mr L can do that if he wishes to.)
If Mr L remains dissatisfied and requires more documents  than PRA has already provided, 
he may raise  this with the Information Commissioners Office,  whose details  have been  
provided to him already.  Its not within my remit to deal with that.
PRAs account  notes do not show any telephone contact with Mr L until he complained in 
December 2017.  PRA did try to phone him, but never got through to him. PRAs collections 
agency has also denied  that it ever spoke  to him by phone. He was making payments to the 
account for years before PRA bought  the debt, starting in August 2002. So I dont accept 
that anyone pressured him into making payments, in a phone call or otherwise. He has paid 
nothing but £1 token payments since 2010,  two years before PRA became involved.
I think that PRA has treated Mr L positively and sympathetically since it took over the 
account. It has only taken  token payments from him so far, and it has exercised forbearance. 
It paid for his GPs  report. I think it has done  enough, and it is not obliged to write off the 
debt.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
Services consideration of this complaint,  which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467550