K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. gave false information to a court  at a 
hearing about his mortgage with it in 2010.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in 2006,  and some additional borrowing in 2007. The mortgage 
lender transferred the mortgage to JPMorgan in 2008. 
JPMorgan later took legal  action because Mr Ks mortgage was in arrears.  In 2010, there 
was a hearing, and the court issued a suspended order for possession  of Mr Ks property. 
Mr K brought a complaint  to this service about the court  action and the charges JPMorgan 
had added to his mortgage.  He also complained  that it hadnt reduced his mortgage  interest  
rate as quickly as it should have done following  changes in the index the rate was tracking.
In January 2012, one of our adjudicators gave her view of the complaint. She concluded that 
JPMorgan had adjusted Mr Ks mortgage  interest in line with the terms set out in his 
mortgage offer, that it was entitled to add charges to the mortgage, and that it had treated Mr 
K fairly while  the mortgage was in arrears  including in taking court action in 2010.
In September  2018, Mr K received a letter from his original mortgage lender. It said the 
lender had made a mistake with the interest rate on his mortgage: it had changed the rate on 
the wrong date,  following changes in the Bank of England base  rate. It said this meant Mr K 
had been overcharged by around £70. The previous lender sent him a cheque  for £127.67, 
to include 8% simple interest, less tax.
Mr K complained. He said the letter hed received showed that the information  JPMorgan 
had provided about  the interest rate on his mortgage  at the court  hearing in 2010 was wrong 
 and this had caused problems with his mortgage  ever since.  
JPMorgan said Mr K had been overcharged  just over £70 in interest, but the mortgage  was 
in arrears by almost £6,500 at the time of the hearing. So it thought the mistake with the 
interest had had a minimal impact on the arrears  and it hadnt known about  the mistake  
until a number of years after the hearing. It said it had done  nothing wrong.
Our investigator agreed with JPMorgan. He also said he couldnt interfere with the decision 
the court had made in 2010, and it wouldnt be appropriate for him to reconsider  matters 
which had been  dealt with in the complaint Mr K had brought to us around seven years 
earlier. Those included  the matters of which external index (the London Inter-bank Offered 
Rate (LIBOR)  or the Bank of England  base  rate) the mortgage interest  rate was linked to and 
when it would be adjusted  to reflect changes in the index rate, and JPMorgans  decision to 
take legal  action. 
Mr K didnt accept that conclusion. He thought the investigator was biased, and he still 
considered JPMorgan had misled the court about  the level of his mortgage  arrears and when 
the mortgage interest rate would be adjusted.  He said this had resulted  in his mortgage  still 
being in arrears and his credit file ruined  so he is locked into a mortgage he can never 
move to another lender.
Ref: DRN76054182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think  its important to be clear that our service is impartial. A decision not to 
uphold a complaint isnt evidence of bias, and I can assure Mr K that I have considered his 
complaint impartially  and independently.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ks original mortgage lender made a mistake  following a change in 
the Bank of England base  rate in 2007.  It altered Mr Ks interest rate on the wrong date,  
which resulted in Mr K being overcharged. 
Importantly, though, Mr K was only overcharged just over £70. The court order and the 
mortgage statements  show the mortgage was in arrears of almost  £6,500  at the time of the 
hearing. So I think it would be difficult fairly  to conclude that the mistake with the interest 
resulted in court action being taken which would otherwise not have happened. I dont think 
it did. And I dont consider  the mortgage has continued to be in arrears because of the 
overcharged interest. Besides that, the mistake didnt come  to light until last year  so 
JPMorgan didnt know about it in 2010.  
Mr K also says JPMorgan  gave  the court wrong  information about the index rate his 
mortgage interest rate was linked to, and when it would be reviewed. Its unclear  how that 
might have affected the courts decision  if at all. But that is a matter  for Mr K to take up 
with the court if he wishes and if he believes it means the order should be set aside.
I agree  with the investigator that its not appropriate  for me now to reconsider complaint 
points which  Mr K brought to us several years ago and which we have already taken a view 
on, as set out above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7605418