K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) imposed unfair  
charges for damage to his car on its return.
background 
In 2015 Mr N acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement with VFS. In this 
agreement he agreed to pay for any damage beyond fair wear and tear when the car was 
returned. He voluntarily terminated the agreement in late 2018 and his car was collected by 
an agent of VFS. When Mr N opted  to end the agreement VFS sent him a pack  which set out 
its procedures and gave  details of what constituted fair wear and tear.
The inspection report showed a number of areas of damage which  were  deemed to be 
beyond fair wear tear as set out in the British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing  Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines.  VFS charged Mr N £529.92. He complained and it reviewed the 
charges and agreed that two areas of damage  could be repaired more cost effectively. It 
reduced the charge to £422.64. It later passed  this debt to its solicitors.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He reviewed the inspectors report  and the 
photographic evidence and concluded that the four areas of damage  went  beyond fair wear 
and tear as defined  by the BVRLA guidelines. He thought VFSs proposed reduction in the 
charge was fair and reasonable.
He also noted  Mr N had signed the hire purchase agreement  confirming he was legally 
bound by its terms. This included at section 3.2 that You  will be responsible for any damage 
to or deterioration of the vehicle which is excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the 
age and mileage  of the vehicle.
Mr N didnt agree and said the only damage  he might be liable for was the chip on the 
bonnet, but he disputed  the others.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ns disappointment at facing additional charges at the end of his 
agreement. However,  he signed the agreement which made him responsible  for the cost of 
repairing any damage which went beyond  fair wear and tear.
The car was inspected by a third party engaged  by VFS and a report  was produced which  
identified four areas of damage. The standard for what is beyond  fair wear and tear is set out 
in the BVRLA  guidelines and is reasonably objective. Like the adjudicator  I have reviewed 
the report and the photographs and I can see that the damage is beyond what the guidelines 
define as fair wear  and tear. Our adjudicator has set his views in detail which I wont repeat 
here save to say I consider his analysis to be correct.
I appreciate Mr N believes the car was in a reasonable condition,  but the evidence  shows  
otherwise. I can see that VFS agreed that it could make more  cost effective repairs  for two 
items and I believe that to be reasonable.
Ref: DRN73273992As such I can see no grounds that would allow me to uphold  his complaint and I consider 
VFS is entitled to make  the charge.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7327399