K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
The policy was in Mr Ms name only. The mortgage  that it related to was in the name of Mr M 
and his late wife, Mrs M. The policy would have paid Mr and Mrs Ms monthly mortgage 
payments if Mr M had been  off sick, or if hed lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application. It includes a section on PPI 
(referred to in the application as MortgageSure).  The copy is of poor quality,  but Ive 
compared it with a sample of the section  on the mortgage application form that was in 
use at the time. Im satisfied that its in the same  format. It asks whether the applicant  
needs cover against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. There are 
equally prominent Yes and No boxes, and the Yes box is ticked on Mr and Mrs Ms 
application.
I cant know what Lloyds adviser  said to Mr and Mrs M when they applied for the PPI. 
And I acknowledge that Mr M says that he was told the PPI was compulsory. But I think 
its clear  from the way that PPI was referred  to on the application form that it was 
optional. And Im satisfied, on balance,  that Mr M decided to take it, knowing that he had 
a choice  although  I can understand why he may not longer remember this, so many 
years later.
Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr M. This means  it had a responsibility to check that 
the cover was suitable. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time.  Mr Ms told us that hed have been 
entitled to six months full sick pay from his employer at the time. But its likely that the 
policy would have covered Mr and Mrs Ms monthly mortgage repayments  for up to 
12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment.  And it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments  Mr M received from his employer. So Mr and 
Mrs M could have used  those to meet other day-to-day living  expenses. And they 
wouldnt have  had to use their savings to make  their mortgage repayments. So I think 
the policy could have  been useful  for them.
Ref: DRN71594622The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the mortgage offer.  So I think  Mr and Mrs M 
would have understood how much  it would cost. 
Its possible  Lloyds  didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual employment  situations, or pre-existing medical conditions). But based on what 
Mr Ms told us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely hed have been affected 
by any of these.  So taking  everything into account, Im not convinced  that better 
information about the policy would  have put Mr M off taking it out.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about the fact that he 
made an unsuccessful  claim on the policy for a period when Mrs M was ill. He says he 
wouldnt have tried to make the claim if theyd been properly informed when the policy was 
sold that it only covered  him. So he thinks this suggests that the policy  was mis-sold.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Ms said. I can see that immediately after the options  to 
take or decline PPI on the mortgage application  form,  theres  a section with some questions  
to check the applicants eligibility  for PPI. And theres a box to specify  what proportion of the 
PPI cover each applicant would like. Details are completed for Mr M, but not for Mrs M. And 
100% is written in the box in the section  with Mr Ms details. I think its likely that Mr and 
Mrs Ms requirements for PPI were discussed during the meeting. And as they signed the 
mortgage application, its likely that it reflected what had been  discussed. The mortgage  offer 
also clearly shows Mr M as the person insured under the PPI, with 100% of the benefit.
So taking everything into account, I think it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs M when 
they took out the mortgage and PPI that the policy only covered Mr M  even if hes 
understandably forgotten that now. And the fact that Mr M made an unsuccessful  claim to 
cover Mrs Ms sickness doesnt change my view.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I dont find 
that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7159462