K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the level of service received  from British Gas Insurance Limited 
following a claim she made under her Home Emergency  Insurance policy.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 19 March 2019, which I have included 
below: 
In February 2018,  Miss M contacted British Gas to report a leak at her property. During  the 
call Miss M said she had used the shower and water had built up in the bath. Miss M also 
said water  was dripping from her ceiling  into the kitchen downstairs. British Gas advised
Miss M to put the plug in the bath and remove  the water to prevent further damage 
occurring. Miss M was particularly distressed during the call, and said she had experienced
a similar  problem previously which resulted in her ceiling collapsing.
British Gas deployed an engineer to Miss Ms property  to investigate the leak. Miss M said 
she had emptied the water out of the bath, and the engineer  began  running both bath taps 
which she said caused damage to her property. British Gas said on this visit its engineer  
resealed the waste joints underneath the bath to complete  a repair.
Miss M contacted British  Gas shortly after in March 2018 to report  that the engineer that 
attended had caused damage to her property.  British Gas deployed a different engineer  to 
review the work the first engineer had completed. British Gas said the second engineer 
reported they were  satisfied that the previous  engineer  had not done anything  wrong.
Miss M then contacted  British Gas again later in March 2018 as she said she felt the second  
engineer might have  made an error while  working  on the bath and she didnt feel secure. So
British Gas deployed a third engineer  who made checks  and confirmed the second engineer 
had fitted the bath panel correctly.
Miss M later raised a complaint with British Gas as she felt the level of service received  was 
inadequate during her claim. Miss M considers British Gas should  pay for the damage she 
believes the first engineer  caused  by running both bath taps. Miss M also feels British  Gas 
should compensate  her for the level of service received  by not receiving  phone  calls when 
promised and broken appointments.
British Gas accepted it didnt  provided  Miss M with an adequate level of service during the 
claim, and offered her £150  for the trouble and upset  caused.  However,  it doesnt  accept 
liability for the damage caused to Miss Ms property as it considers damage  was 
consequential to the leak already present prior to its engineer attending. It also sought  
guidance from its public liability insurer  which agreed with its position to reject liability.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Ms complaint. He explained he felt that on balance British  Gas 
engineer caused damage to Miss Ms property by running both taps during the first visit. He 
therefore recommended that British Gas should  arrange and cover the costs of the repair to
Miss Ms ceiling, or provide a cash settlement.  He also reviewed the compensation 
British Gas had offered  for the level of service she received,  and found  that to be a fair 
amount based  on the circumstances. Miss M agreed  with our investigators view.
British Gas disagreed  with our investigators  view.  It said during Miss Ms first call she
Ref: DRN77575892explained that there was a leak present and damage  was already being caused  to the
ceiling. It concluded  that because its engineer didnt cause the leak, it wouldnt accept
liability for the damage caused and Miss M should  contact  her household insurance provider.
As British Gas disagreed, its been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached a different
conclusion on this complaint to our investigator. Because of that, this decision will be
provisional, and Ill give both sides a chance  to comment before I make a final decision.
Ive listened to the initial call Miss M made  to British Gas in February 2018 and wanted to
say I appreciate this was a very concerning  time for her. Miss M said she had a similar  leak
previously which resulted in her ceiling collapsing, so I accept this wouldve caused her a lot
of worry and distress which I sympathise with. I also note Miss M suffers  with her health and
underwent surgery  prior to the leak and requires  a fully working bath and shower.
Miss Ms home emergency policy provides her with assistance in the event of a sudden and
unexpected incident. And like in most  home emergency insurance policies, Miss Ms policy
states:
General exclusions
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  or
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused
it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
When Miss M first contacted British Gas in February  2018,  she explained that water was
dripping through the ceiling into the kitchen. This information given by Miss M on the initial
call is important as she described what was taking place prior to the first engineer  attending.
During the call, Miss M was advised to put the plug in the bath and bail out the water to
prevent any further  damage, as she had confirmed that there was some  dripping water
already present in the ceiling. Miss M then said when the engineer  attended they ran both
taps which she said started to cause  damage  to her ceiling.
Our investigator said at this point he considers the damage wouldve been exacerbated by
the work  carried out by the engineer. And while thats possible, Im more persuaded that
damage had already  occurred based  on the information Miss M gave  during the first phone
call she made  to British Gas. So, with the above  exclusion set out in Miss Ms policy  in mind,
I dont think I could  fairly say that British Gas is responsible for the damage caused to 
Miss Ms ceiling because I dont think it caused  the leak.
Miss M contacted British  Gas in March  and a further  engineer  went out who confirmed the
repairs the first engineer  had carried out were  completed effectively. Miss M then made  a
further call to British  Gas who attended  and reported  the bath panel had been correctly  fitted
too and the problems she experienced had been solved.
Having noted  Miss Ms personal circumstances, along with the level of service  she received,
Im in agreement that she should be compensated for the trouble  and upset caused  to her.
Miss M said it took a number of visits over an unreasonable period of time to have the
problem resolved. She also said there  was a lack of communication  and she was spoken to
Ref: DRN77575893inappropriately by a British Gas agent  when she called for an update  when the engineer
didnt arrive. I also note Miss M said there was a broken appointment.
Taking all of the service  issues into account,  Im minded  to agree with our investigators view
that the offer British Gas made totalling  £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
British Gas accepts there were failings on its part and has apologised to Miss M, so I wont
ask it to do more by way of compensating Miss M further here.
In the circumstances of this complaint  Im not persuaded British  Gas is responsible for the
damage caused to Miss Ms ceiling, as in my view the damage in is consequential  to a leak
that British Gas didnt  cause.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Miss M wrote to us to explain that she does  not accept my provisional decision. Within  her 
letter, she said she didnt contact British  Gas to report  a leak, but to explain that water  was 
not going down the bath plug while she was showering. Miss M also stated that no water  
was coming through the ceiling at the time she initially  contacted  British  Gas. 
Miss M also said that she didnt tell British Gas that water was coming through  her ceiling 
during the initial  call to report  the problem. Miss M therefore remains of the opinion that 
British Gas caused damage to her property by removing the plug in the bath and running 
water from both taps. 
British Gas did not respond with any further comments  following my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Miss Ms further comments within her letter she sent us following my provisional  
decision. And while I appreciate this will disappoint her, my decision remains,  for broadly the 
same reasons set out within my provisional decision, that this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Miss M said she didnt state  that water was coming  through the ceiling, but I disagree. I have 
listened to the call Miss M made  in February 2018 again and note she states  that water  was 
dripping through the ceiling into the kitchen. So I think its likely that damage  wouldve 
already been present prior to British Gas attending.  
I do accept that British Gas engineers actions in running both taps wouldve worried Miss M 
and likely caused water  to continue to run through to the kitchen ceiling.  But Im persuaded 
damage was already  present prior to British  Gas attending, and in the circumstances of this 
case I couldnt reasonably require it to pay for the repair under the policy.  I think  the damage 
Ref: DRN77575894caused to Miss Ms property was consequential to the problem she reported  in February 
2018. So I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
I find the offer by British Gas to pay Miss M £150  is fair and reasonable to take into account  
the trouble and upset caused by the number of visits and the delay in resolving the matter for 
Miss M. And, if it has not already done so, British Gas should pay Miss M £150.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7757589