K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) has misapplied  
interest to his credit card account.
Background
Mr C considers the interest has been misapplied from the date of AMEXs  letter  in response  
to a previous complaint (December  2016). 
Our adjudicator concluded AMEX had done nothing wrong - he thought  the interest had 
been correctly  applied to the account.  In his view the interest had been incurred because 
Mr C hadnt paid off the full balance every month.  
He also referred to two non-sterling  transactions  that Mr C had mentioned. The adjudicator  
concluded AMEX  had correctly calculated and applied the fees for those transactions.  Mr C 
has accepted  that point.  
Mr C didnt accept the adjudicators other conclusions and asked for a review  of his 
complaint by an ombudsman. There has been  much correspondence since  those 
conclusions. Some of it has related to Mr Cs initial complaint  which an ombudsman has 
decided is time-barred. And some of it has related  to a later complaint. 
Mr Cs points about the current complaint  interest charged since  December 2016  appear  
to be:
The issue has stemmed from AMEXs refusal to honour an offer of payment.
AMEX ought not to have charged interest  while his complaint  remained unresolved.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service ought  to have advised Mr C to pay the disputed  
interest as it arose, which  could then have been refunded if the complaint were 
upheld.
Mr C hasnt been provided with his signed agreement to the account.
Mr C has made an offer to settle the complaint,  which  AMEX  hasnt accepted.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I dont 
uphold his complaint. 
I can see no reason why Mr C shouldnt be liable to pay interest  this was the natural 
consequence of the full balance not being paid off each month. Taking Mr Cs points in the 
order as listed above:
The alleged retracted  offer of payment formed part of the time-barred complaint, so I 
cant consider it further.
Its not the case that the ombudsman service  thinks  disputed payments should be 
suspended or cancelled.
This decision  relates to Mr Cs liability towards AMEX,  not to the actions of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN74330702Mr C applied for the account online,  so theres  no signed agreement  in the 
conventional sense. That doesnt affect  or nullify his liability  to pay interest on the 
account.
So Ive reached  the same conclusions as the adjudicator. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433070