K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mrs W, who are business partners, have  complained  that Paymentsense Limited  
is seeking to charge  a cancellation fee for their contract for a portable  payment card 
machine. 
background
Miss M and Mrs W, whom Ill also call the partners,  run a business providing services  to the 
public. In 2015 they entered  into a five-year hire contract with Paymentsense  for a card 
payment terminal. In 2017 the lease of their business premises  was coming  to an end, and 
the partners wished to continue their business on a mobile basis. To that end, the partners  
approached Paymentsense for a portable  payment card machine. 
It would have cost the partners  a lot to cancel the existing contract. So Paymentsense 
offered the partners  a new three-year contract  for the portable payment  card machine, which  
the partners apparently accepted. 
In 2018 the partners approached Paymentsense to cancel the new contract. They  told 
Paymentsense they hadnt been using the card machine in their business as it was too 
expensive. Paymentsense said the partners would  have to pay a large cancellation fee. The 
partners objected to this, saying Paymentsense  hadnt made them  aware they were 
agreeing to a three-year contract and that they shouldnt have to pay to cancel a contract 
they werent taking  advantage of. 
Paymentsense defended its contractual right to charge a cancellation  fee but offered to 
reduce it significantly  for the partners. The partners didnt accept Paymentsenses offer and 
brought their complaint  to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator concluded Paymentsense had made a fair offer, so she didnt  uphold  the 
partners complaint. The partners didnt accept  the investigators conclusions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the partners but I 
too have decided not to uphold their complaint.
Its unfortunate theres no longer  a recording of the phone conversation between 
Paymentsense and the partners in which the new contract was discussed. But the evidence 
which does exist shows clearly enough,  in my view, that the partners were  or should have 
been aware that the new contract  was for three  years.  This evidence includes emails 
between the parties  and the signed contract  itself. 
Its not the case that a business  person who agrees to a fixed-term commercial contract and 
to the monthly  charges and the cancellation  fees that the contact  contains,  can simply turn 
their back  on the contract and refuse  to make the due payments, by saying they no longer 
want to take advantage of the contract  or that it no longer suits them or their business.  At the 
very least,  the due cancellation  charges must be paid.
The point about this case is surely that one way or another  the partners had to pay the due 
cancellation fees. Either they had to pay them when cancelling  the original five-year contract  
Ref: DRN70381942in 2017, or they had to pay them when cancelling  the three-year contract in 2018. I dont see 
anything unfair or unreasonable about this. 
In fact, I think Paymentsense treated the partners  very fairly. Paymentsense agreed to allow 
the partners to cancel the original contract without paying any cancellation fees and to 
replace it for the remaining term of the original contract with another  contract  which better  
suited the revised  mobile nature of their business. The fact that the new contract also 
contained potential  cancellation fees was, I think, only fair. 
And on top of this, Paymentsense has offered to allow the partners to cancel the new 
contract for substantially less in terms of cancellation fees than Paymentsense could  have 
insisted on. 
my final decision
Ive concluded  Paymentsense Limited  has made  a fair offer of settlement of the partners 
complaint. I dont require  Paymentsense to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7038194