K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the service he received  from Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds). He says 
Lloyds did not allow him, as his mothers attorney, access to her account,  because he is a 
non-UK resident, and secondly that Lloyds had no procedure  to detect unusual activity  on 
her accounts, which led to the loss of a large  amount of money.
background
I wont repeat the adjudicator/investigators entire  background summary because it covers  
the issues and I want to avoid repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because 
Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However, in summary  form it is this; Mr L and his niece J were the appointed attorneys 
under a Financial  Power of Attorney, granted by his mother. Between December 2017  and 
May 2018, J misappropriated over £100,000 of his mothers money. Mr L feels this was 
probably in pursuit  of a gambling  habit.
Mr L said that in May 2017 he was incorrectly told by Lloyds that he could not have access 
to his mothers accounts because he was a non UK resident. He said that had he been  given 
access then, as he ought, that he would  have been able to prevent the misappropriation of 
funds by J. 
At a meeting  in branch in January 2018, Mr L said Lloyds did agree to him having  access  to 
his mothers accounts,  and it was left that J would set up the online access  for him at a later 
time when  she went back to the branch.  But she didnt, prevaricating and providing excuses 
to Mr L when pressed  by him. Mr L feels that if he had been told that only one person  could 
have online access to the accounts he would  have insisted that it was him, and not J. But 
Lloyds said they thought  it would  be more likely than not that Mr L would have shared the 
account log in details with J in any event  because at that time he still trusted her.
Lloyds accepted that they were wrong in denying Mr L access  to his mothers account and 
have apologised  for that and provided feedback to the relevant people. They have also 
apologised when  another advisor told him incorrectly that attorneys could not have online 
access. In the light of those two service failings  Lloyds offered Mr L £100 in compensation. 
But in relation to the loss of the funds, Lloyds said that J had full authority to access  the 
accounts as an attorney  and there  was no evidence to show  that funds were being 
misappropriated. They did not accept  that if Mr L had been  given  access in May 2017 that 
the ultimate misappropriation would have been  prevented.
Mr L was unhappy  with Lloyds response  and so an investigator from this service looked  into 
the complaint  and accepted that there  had been failings in the level of service but found that 
the level of recompense offered to Mr L was fair and reasonable. As Mr L didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr L. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  
Ref: DRN70145702means taking into account both Lloyds view and that of Mr L. I do not perform  the role of the 
industry regulator, and nor do I have the power to make rules for financial businesses,  
punish them,  or direct that they change  their processes. That falls under the remit of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court  service.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence. Where such evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive  
or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, I consider what is more likely to have  happened in the light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances  of the case. Looking at the available evidence, I think  we have an 
unfortunate situation here. 
I have thought about the £100 offer of compensation Lloyds made  to Mr L. This was to 
reflect the accepted poor service in relation to giving  him the wrong  advice. It was not meant 
to be compensation  for the loss of the funds. So, for those discrete  complaint  issues  I think 
the sum offered was reasonable.  It is in line with the awards this service  would make for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put 
matters right.
But I now turn to the more substantial issue of the loss of the funds.  In May 2017 Mr L has 
said he trusted J. So, even if he had been given  the correct advice it is unlikely he would 
have chosen simply to have sole access to the accounts. He was in the USA and J was here 
in the UK near to his mother. It is more likely than not that he would have had a shared 
access arrangement. J would therefore  have  been  in the same position as she was to begin 
with.
J did not start to misappropriate  the funds until the latter part of December 2017. I have 
looked at the statements and can see that by mid May 2018 the funds had virtually all gone. 
That is a very short  period  of about  19 weeks. The question which arises is whether Mr L 
would, within  that period,  have been  able to do anything  to prevent the misappropriation. I 
have no doubt  that he would have  raised  an alarm had seen the alarming  rate at which the 
funds were being depleted,  since I agree with him that that rate of expenditure for an elderly 
woman with Alzheimers  disease would have been very unusual.  But I know from what  
actually happened  that J was quite  creative in deceiving Mr L, when she prevaricated  and 
put forward excuses  as to why the online access had not been set up. That was during  the 
period January 2018 to November 2018. So I think on balance that it would have  been  likely 
that J would  have equally prevaricated and found another  reason to keep Mr L from the fact 
that she had misappropriated the funds.  
However it is also the case that I should  consider whether there  was anything which would 
or could  have alerted Lloyds to the fact that funds were being  misappropriated. In this case 
Lloyds would only know that the funds  were being transferred by one of the lawfully 
appointed attorneys. They had no reason  to suspect that J had a problem with gambling or 
indeed that she was otherwise misappropriating the funds.  I agree  that they would see that 
the funds were reducing fast but in itself there is nothing wrong in that, without further 
indication of wrongdoing. In other  words  Lloyds had no power or cause to stop what 
appeared to be lawful  transfers. I suspect that even if Lloyds  had approached J she would 
have advanced  an excuse or reason as to why she was transferring funds. Equally she 
might have declined  to make any comment at all which  would have been her right.
I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion as 
the investigator and for similar reasons. Mr Ls mother  has been the victim of a terrible  
breach of trust by J, but I cannot, on a balance  of probabilities, find that the loss sustained 
Ref: DRN70145703on the account was by reason of anything Lloyds did or didnt do. In other  words  I think it is 
likely the loss would have occurred in any event  even  if Mr L had been  provided with access  
to his mothers account in May 2017.
my final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to pay £100  to settle  the complaint and I think  this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds should  pay £100 to Mr L.
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7014570