K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that the advice he received from Kingswood  Financial Advisors  to 
transfer his pension funds away from a defined  benefits scheme (DBS) and into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) was unsuitable.
background
The background to the complaint was set out in detail in my provisional decision of 
12 December 2018, this is attached and forms part of this decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I said 
that I would consider anything either  party wanted  to add. Kingswood  did not respond with 
anything it wanted  to add. Mr Ps response focused on the additional circa £18,000 he 
invested in Harlequin. 
Mr P submitted evidence  of cash payments made  to Harlequin  and a letter  instructing 
encashment of savings  which he says were  used to make these payments. 
The adjudicator wrote to Mr P explaining that I had considered the evidence  submitted but 
didnt think it was enough to link the additional  investment to Kingswood. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached the case has been passed  back to me for final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
Neither party has made any further  submissions in respect of the main aspect of this 
complaint  the pension transfer  advice   my findings in respect of that remain as set out in 
my provisional decision. 
Within this decision I have  focused on Mr Ps comments about the additional investment he 
made in Harlequin  of around £18,000.  As Mr P recalls he was told that he had to invest  an 
additional amount in Harlequin and he encashed  savings  he had to raise  the funds he was 
told were required.  Mr P says that Kingswood wrote and printed the letter  he signed to 
encash his savings in order to make  the investment. 
The additional investment was not made through Mr Ps SIPP. 
The only contemporaneous evidence  we have are receipts  for the cash  payments to 
Harlequin and the form instructing the relevant  provider to encash Mr Ps holdings   which  
he says were used to make the investment. There is no reference to Kingswood or 
Kingwoods adviser  within this documentation.  
Ref: DRN77635582I sympathise with Mr Ps position and I dont doubt  his recollections but, in this case,  there is 
not enough to evidence  to hold Kingswood responsible for that investment. So, I remain of 
the view that my findings and the redress as set out in provisional decision are fair  and, I 
cannot fairly and reasonably make any additional  award in respect  of the additional cash  
investment Mr P made. 
fair compensation
The transfer from Mr Ps DBS
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into the position he would now be 
in but for the unsuitable advice.
Kingswood must undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
Kingswood may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mr Ps contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any past loss 
(i.e. extra net income or tax-free cash Mr P would already  have received from the 
occupational scheme) should be paid to him as a lump sum.
The compensation in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
For example, if Mr P would  have  been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already  been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable  
income only. So it would be appropriate to make  a notional deduction of 20% in full.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr P 
within 90 days of the date Kingswood receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
Ref: DRN77635583decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Kingswood to pay Mr P this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment held within it. I think it would be best 
if the investment  could  be removed from the SIPP. Mr P would then be able to close the 
SIPP, if he wishes. That would then allow him to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. The 
valuation of the relevant investment may prove difficult, as there  is no market for it. For 
calculating compensation, the business  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of 
the investment/s.
If the business is unable, or if there  are any difficulties, in buying  Mr Ps illiquid investments, 
it should give the holding a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. In this 
instance the business may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding. That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr P may receive from the 
investment and any eventual sums.
pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr P to the SIPP
Had the business done what  I have  concluded it ought to have  done  then I do not think  there 
would be a SIPP. It is not fair that Mr P continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if that SIPP 
cannot be closed.
Ideally the business would take over the illiquid  holding/s to allow the SIPP to be closed. 
This is the fairest way of putting Mr P back in the position he would have  been  in. However, 
third parties are involved  and we do not have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think it is fair that the business pay Mr P an upfront lump  sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the most recent years fees).  
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Mr P 
with some confidence that he will not be subject  to further fees.
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr P.
Kingswood should pay to Mr P £500 compensation for the significant distress and 
inconvenience caused by the loss of his pension  funds.
determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Kingswood
Financial Advisors pay the balance.
Ref: DRN77635584determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Kingswood Financial Advisors  should  pay 
the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum  of £150,000 (including distress  
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance as set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend  that Kingswood Financial Advisors pays  Mr P the balance. I 
further recommend  interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for 
any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Kingswood Financial Advisors  to pay Mr P from 
the date it receives  notification of his acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
If Mr P accepts  my determination,  the money  award  is binding  on Kingswood Financial 
Advisors. My recommendation  is not binding on Kingswood Financial  Advisors.
Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr P may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and within my provisional decision, which  is attached, I uphold 
Mr Ps complaint and direct Kingswood Financial Advisors to compensate Mr P as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P has complained that the advice he received from Kingswood Financial Advisors to transfer his 
pension funds  away from a defined benefits scheme (DBS)  and into a self-invested personal pension  
(SIPP) was unsuitable.
background
Ref: DRN77635585We have  been provided with a Transfer Value Analysis  Report (TVAS)  dated  22 June 2011. It was 
noted in this document that:
Mr Ps DBS had a retirement  age of 60;
Mr P had left the scheme  on 28 September 2010;
The scheme had a transfer  value of a little over £83,000;
The estimated total scheme  pension payable from age 60 was £8,943.54 increasing (from  
age 65) to £10,118.79;
The estimated total additional tax-free cash sum payable from age 60 was £25,752.30;
To replace the benefits  provided by the former scheme at retirement  age 60, the transfer 
value would need an annual investment return of not more than 9%.
We have  been provided with a Fact Find dated 28 June 2011,  it was noted  in this document  that Mr P:
Did not want the full review service;
Wanted advice on his personal retirement planning;
Was single and had two dependents;
Was self-employed and intended  to retire  at age 55;
Was a gambler;
Had gross earnings of £12,000 a year;
Had monthly outgoings of £1,300;
Owned  a house valued  at £330,000 with a mortgage of £204,000;
Had £70,000  in current accounts and building  societies;
Had £6,000 in PEPS and ISAs;
Had £6,200 in investment bonds;
Had other assets (including National  Savings) totalling £40,000;
Had an investment timeframe for his pension  funds of 11 years;
Had recently attended  a seminar provided by another adviser about using pension monies to 
invest in a commercial property abroad.
It was also noted that Kingswood had not given any advice with regards  to the property purchase but 
had advised on how Mr P could  utilise  his existing  provisions to fund such an investment  by 
transferring to another provider.
A basic risk profiler was also completed on 28 June 2011 and this recorded that Mr P had an attitude 
to investment risk which was assessed as being seven on a scale of one to ten.
The business  wrote to Mr P on 6 July 2011  and it noted  that:
During discussions Mr P had stated that he would prefer  to have the monies in his DBS 
invested in a contract which offered  a greater investment choice and had indicated that he 
wanted to use the monies to invest in Harlequin;
Kingswood  had not given  any advice with regards to the property purchase;
It had explained that such an investment was not available under Mr Ps existing contract  and 
that he would have to look at transferring  his pension funds into a SIPP  and Mr P had agreed 
to this course of action;
Mr Ps existing DBS would  provide guaranteed, inflation  proofed  benefits at retirement;
Mr P was in the process  of setting up a shop with colleagues  and had two buy to let 
properties;
Mr P considered  that his current business activities  would  provide for his retirement income  
and he wished to gamble with his DBS monies  rather than leaving them where they were;
Mr P required the maximum possible lump sum upon retirement and would like to risk some 
benefits in the hope of good returns  and the prospect  of retiring  early;
Mr P was happy to accept a larger degree  of risk in exchange  for the possibility  of a higher  
pension in retirement;
Ref: DRN77635586Initial enquiries indicated a requirement for an annual  growth rate of about 9% to provide  
broadly equivalent pension benefits elsewhere, at age 60, to those which the DBS would 
provide.
The report also said:
It is understood that your objective  in wishing to transfer,  is solely  to access the fund 
available under  your existing pension  scheme to enable you to purchase a property abroad 
via a Self Invested Personal Pension Plan.
And
This report now considers  the options  available to you, which are only to leave the money  in 
the [name of the DBS] , or transfer to an individual pension plan and lose the guarantees of 
the [name of the DBS] , as you have no ongoing pension  plans.
And
The objective of transferring from an occupational final salary scheme to an individual 
arrangement can be to have a more appropriate mix of benefits, to have an improved  
charging structure or to maximize personal  benefits.  Some  individuals transfer to take control  
of the monies invested, rather than leave  that control with the previous scheme trustees.  
Some individuals prefer a wider choice of investment funds than that available  under  the 
occupational scheme.
In your own case, the overriding objective is to provide access now to your pension funds  to 
enable you to purchase  a property in the Caribbean.
Under recommendations, the report says, amongst other things:
You face a stark choice:
keep  the guarantees, remain in the [name of DBS]  or,
lose the guarantees and transfer to a individual pension (thus  enabling you to proceed with 
your wish to purchase  property via a new SIPP)) [sic]
Further to our discussions you do wish to proceed with the transfer and I confirm  that only the self 
invested personal  option  will allow you to access the funds to enable  you to purchase the property 
abroad.
And under provider  recommendation it says:
I recommend [name of SIPP provider]  as the provider of your plan as they offer the facility to 
purchase the property in the Caribbean
I can confirm that my advice at this time has been limited to just the transfer of the [name of
DBS] and the advice may have been different had I considered all of your financial planning  needs.
The SIPP application form which was signed  on 5 July 2011 confirms that Kingswood was the adviser  
and the transaction was an advised  transaction. The form lists the intended  activity of the SIPP as 
Harlequin property  purchase.
The deduction of fees agreement sets out that for the advice it had given Kingswood would receive an 
initial sum of £2,850 and an on-going fee of 0.5% of the SIPP value annually.
A Harlequin contract records that  for £79,200  Mr Ps SIPP would be purchasing a 24% share  of a 
property in the Quin  One development in Barbados. This was signed  by Mr P on 8 September 2011.
Ref: DRN77635587complaint process and the parties  submissions
Mr P has told us, amongst other things, that:
He was led to believe that he was taking out a product that was appropriate for his needs;
He had intended to rely on his pension  funds to provide an income for him;
He was yet to receive any return following  on from the £84,000 transfer into the
SIPP and subsequent £18,800 contribution he recalls making;
He was misled  about the returns and security  both of the recommended SIPP and of the 
underlying Harlequin  holding;
He was led to believe that transferring and investing in Harlequin would yield a far better 
return than he was obtaining  from his existing  pension arrangements;
Kingswood  recommended that he transfer into the SIPP  to make the investment in Harlequin  
possible;
The recommended transaction exposed  him to too much risk and had the business made  him 
aware of all of the risks involved then he would never have proceeded  with the transaction;
The position he had been left in meant that he was now faced  with the prospect of no 
retirement income other than the state pension.
Kingswood has said that:
Mr P attended a meeting about the Harlequin Property  scheme which was hosted  by an 
advisory network; and
Was advised by the advisory  network that he could use his pension fund to support the 
Harlequin purchase but that his pension would need to be transferred into a SIPP to do so;
In June 2011 he was referred to Kingswood for advice on transferring  his pension funds  into a 
SIPP;
Prior to advising Mr P a fact finding  exercise  had been undertaken and the benefits  of the 
existing DBS and potential losses had been discussed with Mr P but he had made  up his 
mind to invest prior to meeting with it;
The contract with Harlequin that Mr P signed was dated 28 April 2011,  nearly three months 
before he was in contact  with it;
It had provided Mr P with all of the relevant  information so as to enable  him to make an 
informed decision on whether or not to transfer;
The advice to invest into Harlequin  had not been given by it but by a third party;
As Mr P had already received advice, paid a deposit and signed contracts to acquire an 
overseas property from an adviser not associated with Kingswood, the only option available 
was to transfer his existing funds into a SIPP so as to enable him to fulfil his contractual  
obligations;
Mr P made it clear at outset that he had already decided that he wanted to invest  in Harlequin 
and that he wanted  Kingswood to move his pension  funds into a plan which  would allow this;
The advice it gave to Mr P solely related to the transfer  of his DBS into a SIPP so as to 
enable him to complete his chosen investment  strategy,
Kingswoods  only involvement with the underlying  investment  was to check with the SIPP 
provider to make  sure that it was an allowable investment;
It has never had any agreement  or association  with Harlequin Property, it has never met any 
Harlequin representatives  or received any form of remuneration from Harlequin;
The only reason that the client has complained  is due to the problems associated with the 
Harlequin investment,  if he had invested into a SIPP using mainstream  investment funds  or 
even regulated property purchase he would not be in the position  he is in now;
It is totally unjust to place the burden of responsibility on Kingswood for this failure;
Advice about Harlequin was provided  by another adviser and that adviser  should  be 
accountable for that advice.
In response to queries we put to him Mr P has stated that:
Ref: DRN77635588He had no other pension funds  other than the DBS;
The only savings  and investments he had were the DBS and around £25,000 which was held 
in cash;
Other  than his primary  residence  he had two buy to let homes  which  were fully mortgaged;
He had intended to start taking pension  benefits at age 65;
He was approached by an unregulated introducer and Kingswood and he was told the 
proposed investment in Harlequin  was low risk and would yield 15%;
In addition to the pension transfer  Mr P had been  asked to pay a further  £18,800 into the 
investment in Harlequin and was told that if he put this extra  money  in he would  get £4,000 
back;
He thought the additional £18,800 had been paid into his SIPP; he cannot  remember whether  
or not the advice to make  the additional investment had come from the unregulated introducer 
or from Kingswood.
One of our adjudicators  reviewed the complaint; he concluded that the advice to transfer monies away 
from the DBS into the SIPP so as to invest in Harlequin  was unsuitable. 
Kingswood disagreed. Neither party to the complaint has provided any substantive response to the 
assessment.
Because agreement could not be reached, this complaint has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
What did Kingswood do?
Kingswood recommended a SIPP to Mr P for him to transfer  his DBS into in order to invest in 
Harlequin. It did not give advice  on the underlying investment. The suitability letter did include some 
discussion around  the guaranteed benefits that the DBS provided.
Kingswood says within the suitability letter that its advice was limited to the transfer of the
DBS  but, I cant see that it ever actually  advised whether or not that transfer was suitable.
Taking this into account, I am not persuaded that Kingswood did fulfil its obligations  in terms of the 
DBS transfer even if this could be considered in isolation without  taking the intended underlying 
investment into account.
Could Kingswood limit its advice to the transfer to the SIPP?
Kingswood was required  to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs  to be 
considered through  the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles  for businesses  in particular, 
principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable  
care).
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1 required Kingswood to gather the necessary 
information about Mr Ps knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type designated 
investment, his financial  situation and investment objectives. This was to enable it to make a 
recommendation which  was suitable for Mr P.
Ref: DRN77635589COBS 9.2.2 required  Kingswood to gather  enough information to ensure  that the recommendation;  
met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had sufficient knowledge and experience 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things,  to fulfil its duties Kingswood had to know its client, act in his best interests 
and give suitable advice. I dont think that it could  fulfil these duties without considering the overall  
transaction, including; the suitability of the transfer and the investment strategy  that the SIPP was 
taken out to facilitate.
In 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (then Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued  an 
alert in relation to Advising on pension  transfers with a view to investing  pension monies into 
unregulated products  through  a SIPP. This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
This alert came  after Kingswoods recommendation to Mr P but the alert was issued because of 
issues that the regulator found when reviewing how some advisers  were operating based on existing 
regulation. In other words, the alert was a reminder  of existing obligations under the COBS  rules  it 
did not introduce a new set of obligations.
Here the transaction  involved Mr P transferring DBS benefits, which  were valuable guaranteed 
benefits. These represented  a large proportion of his pension provision and were to be invested in 
their entirety  in an esoteric unregulated investment.
I think  that Kingswood should have been wary of these factors and have known that looking at the 
suitability of the SIPP  in isolation was not acting in Mr Ps best interests. The SIPP was just a wrapper 
and its suitability could not be separated  from the source  of the funds and the investment strategy to 
be employed  within the SIPP.
I acknowledge that Kingswood did explain the benefits available under the DBS and that these would  
be lost on transfer. This does not go far enough and does not equate to Kingswood fulfilling its 
obligation to provide suitable advice in the circumstances.
The transfer  of Mr Ps DBS and the intended investment strategy were  part and parcel of the advice  
being given.
Kingswood should not have recommended the SIPP  without considering the suitability of the 
transaction as a whole. In doing so it failed in its obligations to Mr P.
What would  suitable advice  have been?
Having concluded  that Kingswood ought  to have considered the entirety of the transaction and given 
suitable advice, I have thought about what suitable advice would  have been based on what I know  
about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time.
Ref: DRN776355810COBS 19.1.6  G sets out that when advising a retail  client on a DBS transfer the adviser  should start 
from the position that the transfer is unsuitable. And should only find the transfer to be suitable if it can 
clearly evidence that the transfer is in the clients best interests.
Kingswood knew that Mr P was intending  to put all of the monies from the DBS transfer into a single 
unregulated esoteric investment  specifically Harlequin   in light of Mr Ps circumstances, this was 
enough for it to know that the course of action was not suitable.
The transfer  away from the DBS, in and of itself, resulted in the loss of valuable guarantees, which I 
do not think there was any justification for in this case. The transfer represented just less than 23 
years of reckonable  service.  The last day of service (as a postman) was less than a year before the 
date of advice.
Mr P does not appear to have had any other pension  provision. He had a relatively modest income; it 
is not clear exactly what this income  was made up of from the fact find. Mr P did have two buy to let 
properties. We do not have details of the income  and outgoings associated with those properties.
Both buy to let properties  and Harlequin are technically property investments. I dont think  that having 
experience in owning a couple of buy to let properties is akin to having experience in an investment 
like Harlequin   or, that this meant that Mr P had the capacity  to bear the risks involved with the 
transaction.
I have not seen anything that would  indicate Mr P was an experienced investor  or that he could afford 
to take significant risk with his pension.
I think  that a reasonably competent  body of Independent Financial Advisers (IFA)  would have 
concluded that the transfer and subsequent investment were not suitable. And I think  that this is the 
outcome that Kingswood ought to have reached had it properly assessed the suitability  of the entire 
transaction.
So, Kingswood should have recommended,  in no uncertain terms,  that Mr P retain his DBS benefits. 
This recommendation should have included  a detailed  explanation as to why the transfer was not 
suitable and the risks involved.
As part of making  sure that Mr P was in an informed  position and that it was acting in his best 
interests, in this case, I think Kingswood should  have  explained  its role as opposed  to that of anyone 
involved solely with the promotion of the investment and the implications of this.
What would  Mr P have done?
Having concluded  that Kingswood ought  to have advised against the transfer to the SIPP  for the 
purposes of investing in Harlequin, I have thought about what   if anything  Mr P would  have done 
differently had he received  suitable advice.
I have not seen anything in this case that would  persuade me that Mr P was likely to have ignored 
suitable advice from a regulated adviser   particularly,  if this had included a clear  explanation as to 
why the intended course of action was unsuitable  and that of the roles  of the parties involved.
Mr P had at least been introduced to Harlequin  before Kingswoods advice. He had made some initial  
commitment to invest including  paying  a deposit  based on what he had been told about the 
investment. As far as I am aware  the deposit was likely to have  been £1,000. At that point it would still 
have been possible  for Mr P to not go ahead  with the investment but he would  most likely  have lost 
his deposit. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr P would not have been thrilled to lose this money, I am not 
persuaded that this would have led him to ignore regulated advice  particularly if, as I have found it 
ought to have  done, that advice included a clear explanation as to why the transfer was wholly 
unsuitable and the risks involved with the investment.
Ref: DRN776355811Taking everything into account, I am satisfied that if Kingswood had given  suitable advice, Mr P would 
not have transferred his pension. In turn, in this case, I dont think  that Mr P would  have ended  up in a 
SIPP invested  in Harlequin if Kingswood had fulfilled its regulatory obligations and provided suitable  
advice.
The involvement  of other parties
Kingswood did not recommend that Mr P invest in Harlequin. We have received conflicting  evidence  
as to precisely how Mr P came to this decision but it seems  that he approached/was referred to 
Kingswood with a view to invest in Harlequin. So, Mr P had started  along the path to invest in 
Harlequin by way of transferring his DBS prior to Kingswoods involvement. In this case, I dont think  
that this takes  away from Kingswoods responsibility  for the losses that Mr P has suffered. I will 
explain why.
The parties  involved and the contemporaneous evidence appear to indicate that Mr P attended a 
seminar where he was introduced to Harlequin. Kingswood says that this seminar was hosted  by an 
advice network and that one of that networks advisers  gave Mr P advice.
Whereas Mr P says the introduction came from a firm which appear to have operated as an 
unregulated introducer.  Where the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
The fact find said:
During our recent meeting we discussed your existing  pension provision. You have recently  
attended a seminar provided by another adviser  with regards to using a pension  fund for a 
commercial property abroad. I have  given  you no advice with regards to the property 
purchase but have given you advice  on how you can utilise your existing pension  funds for 
this purpose, by transferring to an alternative provider.
The suitability letter simply says that Mr P had attended a seminar  the subject of which was property 
purchase in the Caribbean  via Harlequin   and, that he was told at that seminar that the investment 
can be made  through a SIPP.  There  is no mention of Mr P having  received regulated advice in 
respect of the investment.
The SIPP application lists an introducer but the relevant section simply contains the name of an 
individual. There is no mention of a firm.
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded that Mr P did receive  regulated advice to invest  in 
Harlequin from another firm.
In any case, Kingswood had a duty to provide suitable advice taking into account the intended  
purpose of the SIPP and the source of the funds. The involvement of other parties did not, in any way, 
negate Kingswoods responsibilities or the duty of care which it owed  to Mr P.
The investment was made as a result of the transfer of Mr Ps DBS. The transfer was made possible 
through Kingswoods  involvement.  And, I dont think that it would have  gone ahead without 
Kingswoods actions, particularly if Kingswood had provided suitable advice as outlined above.
Ultimately, I think  that if Kingswood had fulfilled its obligations  to Mr P and given  suitable advice it 
would have put a stop to the transaction, so I think it is reasonable to hold Kingswood  responsible for 
the full measure  of Mr Ps loss.
So, in summary, I have  found that Kingswood  should not have limited its advice to just the SIPP, this 
could not reasonably be separated from the overall transaction  and, in doing  this it did not act in 
Ref: DRN776355812Mr Ps best interests or provide suitable advice. It ought to have provided suitable advice taking into 
account the overall  transaction and, if Kingswood had done  so, it should  have recommended against  
the transfer. Had Kingswood given Mr P suitable  advice and explained the risks involved in detail, 
Mr P would not have transferred his DBS benefits,  despite the involvement  of third parties.
In turn, I am satisfied that:
The transfer to the SIPP would not have happened if Kingswood had given suitable advice;
There is a link between that unsuitable advice and the full measure of Mr Ps loss; and
It is fair to ask Kingswood to compensate Mr P for that loss.
fair compensation
The transfer from Mr Ps DBS
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would  
be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,  into the position  he would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice.
Kingswood must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision,  and using the most  recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mr Ps acceptance  of the decision.
Kingswood may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  in respect of any past loss (i.e. extra 
net income or tax-free cash Mr P would already have received from the occupational scheme) should  
be paid to him as a lump  sum.
The compensation  in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation  
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment into the pension  isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. For example, if Mr P would  have been yet to take a 
tax-free cash  sum from the occupational  scheme, 25% of the future  loss would be tax-free  and 75% 
would have been taxed  according  to his likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free cash sum from the occupational  scheme has already been taken  into account in the 
payment for past loss above, the remaining  future loss is in respect of taxable income only.  So it 
would be appropriate  to make a notional  deduction of 20% in full.
Interest should be added to any loss established in line with the above at the rate of 8% per year 
simple for any time that it takes Kingswood Financial  Advisors to pay Mr P from the date it receives 
notification of his acceptance of the decision.
treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
Ref: DRN776355813The SIPP only exists  because  of the illiquid investment  held within  it. I think it would  be best if the 
investment could be removed from the SIPP. Mr P would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes. 
That would then allow him to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. The valuation of the relevant 
investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. For calculating compensation, the business 
should agree an amount  with the SIPP provider  as a commercial value. It should  then pay the sum 
agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the investment/s.
If the business  is unable, or if there are any difficulties,  in buying  Mr Ps illiquid investments, it should 
give the holding  a nil value for the purposes of calculating  compensation. In this instance the business 
may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP 
may receive from the relevant holding.  That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount  Mr P may receive from the investment and any eventual  sums.
pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mr P to the SIPP
Had the business done what I have concluded  it ought  to have  done then I do not think there would  
be a SIPP. It is not fair that Mr P continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if that SIPP cannot be closed.
Ideally the business  would take over the illiquid holding/s  to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr P back in the position he would have been in. However, third parties  are 
involved and we do not have the power to tell them  what to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I 
think it is fair that the business pay Mr P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP 
fees (calculated using the most recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed. There are a number of ways  they may want  to seek to 
achieve that. It will also provide Mr P with some  confidence that he will not be subject  to further fees.
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P.
Kingswood Financial Advisors  should pay to Mr P £500 compensation for the significant distress and 
inconvenience caused  by the loss of his pension funds.
determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Kingswood  Financial 
Advisors pay the balance.
determination and award: I uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Kingswood Financial Advisors should  pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000  (including distress and/or  inconvenience 
but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance  as set out above.
If Kingswood Financial Advisors does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr P. This is until any future benefit  that he may receive from 
the investment  together with the compensation paid by Kingswood Financial Advisors (excluding any 
interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Kingswood Financial Advisors  may request an undertaking  from Mr P that either  he repays to 
Kingswood Financial Advisors  any amount Mr P may receive from the investment thereafter, or if 
possible transfers the investment at that point.
Mr P should be aware that any such amount  would be paid into his pension plan so he may have to 
realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
Ref: DRN776355814£150,000, I also recommend  that Kingswood Financial Advisors pays  Mr P the balance. I further 
recommend interest to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time that it 
takes Kingswood  Financial  Advisors to pay Mr P from the date it receives notification of his 
acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr P accepts  my determination, the money award  is binding on Kingswood Financial Advisors. My 
recommendation is not binding on Kingswood  Financial Advisors.
Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my determination  and go to court  to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing to him after the money award has been  paid. Mr P may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct Kingswood
Financial Advisors  to compensate Mr P as set out above.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add, as long as I receive  it by 12 January 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7763558