K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2006  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £529.76 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £28.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a scaffolder. He has told us he was entitled to employee  
benefits but has not told us how long these would be for or whether these were equivalent to 
his full pay or half pay. It doesnt appear Mr and Mrs H had any other  means of meeting  the 
repayments  such as savings or insurance policies.  Mr H has said he had a medical 
condition at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account opened in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and     
Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN73757652The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN73757653GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN73757654-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of a separate  (to the mortgage)  application form Mr and Mrs H completed in 
order to take PPI. There is nothing on this form which  would suggest taking PPI was 
compulsory. Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage agreement signed  by Mr and Mrs H. This 
refers to the PPI as being optional and makes  it clear that it isnt a requirement of the 
mortgage that PPI be taken.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs H knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs Hs representatives  agree  that advice was provided  during this 
sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr H would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr H had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN73757655-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H was the main  wage  earner, Mrs H 
was not working,  and it seems  likely Mr and Mrs Hs finances  would be put under 
strain if he were  not working   even allowing for the sickness and redundancy 
benefits he may have  been entitled  to. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs H 
manage the consequences  if Mr H was unable  to work.
-Although Mr and Mrs H says they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions,  
Mr and Mrs H have told us about a medical  condition  Mr H suffered from in around 
1996 and for which he needed to take around  7 weeks off work. However, I havent 
seen any evidence  which  would  suggest  that this problem caused Mr H ongoing 
problems. In any event,  the policy would have  paid out if Mr H was symptom  free, 
had not consulted a doctor or received treatment  for this condition for 24 months 
before submitting a claim.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr H be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim (the first payment paid 90 days  after the first day 
of disability or unemployment) and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs H be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H all of the 
Ref: DRN73757656information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and   
Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and    
Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN73757657Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event      
Mr H was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs H would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs H would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that Mr H 
knew about or ought to have known about  on the date of signing the PPI proposal 
form; or for which he had seen a doctor, or arranged to see one, during 12 months 
immediately before signing the PPI proposal  form; and which occurs again within 24 
months of signing the form;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and/or exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr and Mrs H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policy.  
Ref: DRN73757658But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr H says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the condition occurred 
some 10 years before the policy was sold and theres no evidence to suggest  that this 
condition caused  Mr H ongoing problems. In any event, the policy would have paid out if     
Mr H was symptom free, hadnt consulted a doctor or received any treatment for the 
condition in the 24 months  before  making  a claim.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped  for  
but I think 12 months was a longer  period than Mr H would have received full sick pay for 
and given his length of service, its unlikely he would have been  entitled to statutory 
redundancy pay. Even if he was, the statutory redundancy entitlement  is also likely to have 
been significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs H would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN73757659the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2006  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN737576510Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 December  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7375765