K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about TSB Bank plcs response to his claim for compensation.
background
Mr C complained that he used his credit card issued by TSB to pay for legal services for a 
relative who was involved  in legal proceedings. He suggested the legal advice given was not 
provided with reasonable skill and care. He also suggested this was a breach of contract. 
His stance was, he paid for the service so he is entitled to make  a claim against TSB under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Mr C explained he represented his relative in 
court but he himself  was not a party to the legal  proceedings. 
Later Mr C explained  he initially contracted with the supplier  to provide legal services to help him 
to buy a property.  He had made at least one payment in advance  for that work. But that purchase 
did not go ahead, so instead he told the legal  services provider to use the money  to give advice 
about his relatives  court  case.  But he made  it clear  that the service  he was complaining about 
was in relation  to the legal  services  provided  to support his relatives court  case. 
Mr C also asked that TSB carry out a chargeback in relation to the payments he made  to the 
legal services provider.
TSB didnt  agree it had any responsibility to provide compensation to Mr C under Section 75. 
Further it declined to carry out a chargeback. It said the reason for rejecting both requests  
was because the supplier had not contracted to supply any service  to Mr C. On that basis it 
thought it had no proper grounds for taking  any further action.
Dissatisfied with this response Mr C came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. In summary,  he was satisfied that in order  to 
decide whether  TSB had dealt with Mr C fairly he was able to look at Section 75. He explained 
Section 75 only comes into play if there is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in 
place. In our investigators  view,  there  was no such valid relationship  here. This was because 
for Mr C to be a part of a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  he would need to be the 
contracting party in relation to the contract  with the supplier.  But the only contracting  party  in 
relation to the legal  services was Mr Cs relative, albeit he, Mr C paid for the legal advice the 
relative received.  However that did not make him the contracting party. 
Also, our investigator concluded that it was irrelevant that Mr C had originally got legal 
advice on his own behalf from the same  supplier, as it wasnt that contract that he was 
saying had been breached. And it wasnt that contract Mr C was relying on to make his claim 
under Section 75.
For all of these reasons our investigator did not recommend  upholding Mr Cs complaint.
It appears that TSB accepted our investigators  recommendation. However, Mr C rejected it. 
He responded  further to say, the payment he made,  was not a payment for his relatives 
legal advice. Rather, it was a payment  for legal services for him. He told us again  that he 
had wanted to buy a property and the payment was for the legal work relating to that issue.  
He told us that work had never  been done  and the supplier never  returned  the money he 
paid it for that work. For this reason, Mr C indicated he should get compensation from TSB.
Ref: DRN70659002Mr C asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Mr Cs 
complaint. Im not upholding it. I realise  this may well disappoint Mr C and that is not my 
intention, far from it. Please let me explain why Ive come  to this decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint,  I have  to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law, therefore Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr C pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim  against TSB provided certain 
conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.
The debtor-creditor-supplier relationship needs to be in place in relation to the contract that 
Mr C says has been breached. The difficulty here is that Mr C has given us inconsistent  
information about which contract he is relying on. 
In the first instance  he said the contract  that had been  breached was the one relating to the 
legal services provided to his relative. I will call this contract 1. Now,  he says the contract 
which was breached was the one between him and the supplier for legal services to help him 
with his intended purchase of a property. I will call this contract  2. Ive looked at both 
scenarios because Mr C has complained  about  them both at different times.
contract 1
The important thing  to determine here is was Mr C the contracting party  in relation to 
contract 1? If he was then there would be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in 
place. However, I dont think he was the contracting party.
Please let me explain why I say this. In this instance, Mr C did not need any legal services.  
He was not a party  to the legal case. Although Mr C acted as his relatives representative  in 
relaying instructions to the supplier because his relative did not speak English it is clear that 
the legal  advice was given to the client that is the relative. Mr Cs role here was to act as a 
go-between - but the contracting  party , i.e. the person  who had the contractual  relationship 
here with the supplier  was not Mr C. Mr C merely discharged his relatives obligation to pay 
their legal advisor that is, the supplier for its services. 
On that basis there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  here. It follows, I think  TSB 
cannot fairly and reasonably be asked to provide  Mr C with the compensation he asks for.
Ref: DRN70659003That said,  Mr C says now he isnt complaining about  contract 1. So in any event this all falls 
away and I need  consider  it no further.
contract 2
There could be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here.  That is because Mr C tells 
us he contracted  directly  with the supplier  to provide him with legal services in relation to his 
intended purchase of a property, and he paid for those services using his credit card.
Again, Mr C has provided inconsistent information. That has had an impact on the weight I 
have felt able to give to it.
At first he suggested this contract  had been  properly performed. He told us because he 
could no longer go ahead with the purchase he told the supplier  it could use the money  he 
had paid it in advance,  to fund contract  1 instead.  However, now Mr C says something 
different altogether He tells us, in summary,  the purchase fell through  so he asked the 
supplier for his money back and it refused.
I see that Mr C only gave  us this latest  version  of events after we told him there was no valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in relation to contract  1. I also note that he never 
mentioned this to TSB as far as I can see, indeed up until now his complaint was solely 
about contract 1.
In the circumstances, I think the first account  of events  that Mr C gave us is likely to be the 
correct one. I am more  persuaded by his original statement  as he gave us this account at the 
point where he did not know our position  on the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in 
contract 1. Once he realised that complaint would not succeed he then gave us this new 
version of what happened.
Further, if Mr C had asked the supplier to return his money  and it refused as he says.  I find it 
difficult to understand  why he would then have suggested to his relative that the relative 
should use the services  provided by the supplier.  
Since I think Mr C most likely did tell the supplier  he could use the money paid on account  to 
pay for the work relating  to contract 1 there  has been no breach of contract.  Rather the 
supplier merely reallocated the money Mr C had paid on account in the way Mr C asked it to. 
For all these reasons in relation to this complaint point, I think  TSB has acted fairly.  
chargeback
I can also see that Mr C asked TSB to carry out a chargeback. This was in relation to 
contract 1. It is not entirely clear if Mr C thought TSB ought to have carried out a chargeback 
in relation to contract 2 also. To cover all bases Ive looked at whether TSB ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  attempted  a chargeback  for both contracts.
The chargeback process  allows credit  card users to ask for a transaction  to be reversed if 
theres a problem with goods or services  paid for. Theres no automatic right to a 
chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed  method of getting a refund. The process is 
governed by certain rules set out by an international organisation.
Ref: DRN70659004This international organisation facilitates payments between  different banks  in the same and 
different countries. Its regulations seek to maintain a balance between  merchants supplying 
goods and services, customers of these  merchants, and the banks acting for each of them.  
Accordingly, in the case of the purchase and supply of services,  broadly the regulations  only 
permit a chargeback  to the extent that the services  were not provided and or were  not as 
described.
I realise one of Mr Cs complaint points is that he did not get the service he paid for both in 
relation to contract 1 and contract 2. But for the reasons I set out above I dont agree. I think  in 
these circumstances,  any chargeback attempt in relation to both contract 1 and contract 2 would 
have failed. Contract 1 would  have failed, most likely, because the supplier did provide the legal 
services. Contract 2 would have  failed because it is likely that the supplier could have shown it 
merely followed  Mr Cs instructions. I say this based on my finding that he didnt, on balance,  
ask it to return the money, but rather he said it could keep it to pay for contract  1.
In summary  for all of these reasons I think I have no fair and reasonable basis to ask TSB to 
take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7065900