K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) and its decision to close his bank 
accounts shortly after they were  opened. He feels this was hurtful  and unfair and he wants  
the accounts to be reopened and compensation paid to him. 
background
Mr O applied to open a current account and savings account with Barclays  in February 2018. 
Both accounts were  opened on 9 February  2018 and welcome letters  were sent to Mr O. 
These explained that his cards and online and telephone banking details would be sent to 
him shortly. 
Barclays continued its checks against Mr Os application and on 13 February 2018 decided  
that it did not wish to offer him accounts.  An immediate closure notice was sent to him that 
day and his accounts were closed the following day. 
Neither account held any funds. 
Mr O complained to Barclays about  his account closures. He said that he had received 8 
letters about  his accounts opening and then the letter about  the accounts  closure,  which he 
found distressing.  
Barclays looked into his complaint but during a telephone call Mr O advised that he did not 
want his complaint investigated and he didnt want any more letters to be sent to him. 
Barclays therefore completed its final response  letter and held this on file for Mr O to 
request. In its letter it set out that it could  only identify 3 letters that had been sent to Mr O 
but that it did not doubt that Mr O received the letters he described. Barclays  apologised for 
the upset this would have  caused. 
Mr O was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties.  This 
was that the business was entitled to close accounts in line with its terms and conditions and 
so Barclays did not do anything wrong. 
Mr O was not happy with that view and asked that an ombudsman  consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr Os strength of feeling on this matter and that it has caused him 
considerable upset.  He has described feeling  that the decision to close  his accounts 
damaged his reputation and he found it distressing  to receive  welcome letters alongside  the 
letter advising him of the decision to close his accounts. 
I do understand Mr Os feelings  and sympathise  that he was caused distress, but I have to 
look first at whether Barclays  did anything  wrong before I can look at the impact any error 
had on Mr O. 
Ref: DRN77371922Barclays has confirmed that it opened  the accounts  for Mr O while its checking process 
continued in the background. This is quite usual and is done so that customers can get a 
response to their applications  more quickly. 
When Barclays continued its checks it had concerns  that Mr Os details were registered at 
multiple linked addresses. Barclays therefore decided it no longer wished to open the 
accounts. 
Barclays is entitled to decide this and pointed to its account terms and conditions, which Mr 
O agreed to in applying for the accounts.  These allow Barclays to terminate accounts on 
short notice. Barclays gave Mr O notice by letter,  as it was required to do. 
I appreciate that Mr O then received multiple  welcome letters alongside the letter informing 
him of the decision to close the accounts, but I cannot say that this was wrong of Barclays.  
Welcome letters would  be generated automatically  by his opening the accounts, and the 
letter giving him notice of the decision to close was required. Whilst it is unfortunate that the 
timing of these letters  coincided I cannot say that it was a result of an error at Barclays.  
Consequently I cannot say that Barclays should  compensate Mr O for the distress  he 
suffered as a result  of this. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr O, but for these reasons I do not uphold 
his complaint and do not ask Barclays to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7737192