K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly placed a default marker against 
his name.  He says he closed his account, but two unauthorised payments were then taken  
leaving his account  overdrawn.    
background
Mr M stopped using his NatWest account at the end of September  2012, when it had a credit 
balance of 70p. He says he asked the bank to close it, but two payments  totalling £20.12  
were made to a short-term lender on 27 September and 23 November. This left the account  
overdrawn by £19.42. 
NatWest added charges  to the account, and by March 2013 it was nearly £550 overdrawn.  
In June that year the bank applied a default, and in 2015  it decided  not to pursue the debt. 
Mr M says he didnt  know about the outstanding  debt or the default until he checked his 
credit file in July 2017. He contacted NatWest asking that the default  be removed and the 
debt written off. The bank said it had correctly applied the default and that it believed the 
debt was properly  due  although it hadnt  pursued  payment. It did however offer to mark the 
default as satisfied if Mr M paid the initial overdraft amount of £19.42. Mr M declined  that 
offer and referred  his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She concluded, in summary:
The information available  about the payments in 2012 was limited, but it was likely that 
Mr M had authorised them. 
There was some evidence that there was a discrepancy over the address  NatWest was 
using, but NatWest had tried to contact Mr M by other means.
The banks  proposal of marking the default as satisfied if he repaid the original  debt was 
reasonable.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case   as the final stage in our 
process.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I make  the observation  first of all that, due to the passage of time,  its very likely that the 
default marker has now fallen away. They would usually stay on the record for six years,  
meaning Mr Ms marker  was removed in June of this year.   
Ill turn then to the closure of the account.  The banks records dont  show  that Mr M asked for 
the account to be closed.  Whilst he stopped using it, there  was a balance  outstanding (albeit 
a very small one), which he might  have expected to have been  sent to him if the account had 
been closed.
The account  statements  show  that Mr M had received money  from the short-term lender to 
which the two payments  were made  in 2012.  He clearly had a relationship with that lender 
Ref: DRN79128312and I agree with the investigator  that he had probably set up a continuing authority so it 
could take payments. As I indicated, the evidence of what  happened  in 2012 is limited,  but I 
think thats the most likely  explanation. I very much doubt that anyone else would have 
arranged for payments to be made to a lender to which Mr M owed money. 
I also agree  with the investigator about the banks contacts with Mr M. It does appear  that 
there was a discrepancy with the postcode the bank was using. However, both covered the 
same street (where Mr M was living), and so its quite possible letters  would have been 
safely delivered in any event. But the bank  also contacted Mr M by text message and tried to 
contact him by telephone. 
I note that the bank  offered to remove the default marker if Mr M paid the £19.42 by which 
the account was overdrawn  in late 2012.  Since  Ive concluded that the two disputed  
transactions were  genuine, I believe that was a fair offer. NatWest had already decided  not 
to pursue the debt in any event. 
It may be that these  points are no longer directly relevant, if the default marker  has been 
removed. But for the avoidance of doubt I dont believe that NatWest  has treated Mr M 
unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7912831