K822xcomplaint
Mr Z has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) handling of 
a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to LV includes its agents.
background 
Mr Z was in an accident that wasn't  his fault.  LV eventually decided  that Mr Zs car was a 
total loss and offered him a sum to settle his claim. Mr Z didn't think LVs valuation of his car 
was fair and he was unhappy with other aspects of its service.  He complained. LV explained 
how it had arrived at its offer of settlement  including making deductions for pre-accident  
damage to the car. But it acknowledged  that everything hadn't  gone well. So it offered Mr Z 
£50 compensation  in respect of its delays  in handling the claim and a further £50 because of 
issues with a recovery driver. It also agreed to reduce the amount it would charge Mr Z to 
retain the cars salvage by £59.
Mr Z didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Zs complaint. He felt LV had valued the car fairly. But he 
thought it should increase its offer of compensation for the impact of errors  with its claim 
handling to £150. He thought the £50 LV had previously offered as compensation for the 
problem with the cars recovery  was reasonable and said LV should pay that amount (£50) 
to Mr Z.
Mr Z didn't agree with our investigators view so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I'm going  to partly 
uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Zs made a number of detailed points. But in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our investigators 
assessment of the complaint.
was if fair for LV to make a pre-accident damage deduction when valuing Mr Zs car?
Mr Zs policy covers  the car's pre-accident market  value. In other words, if LV deem it a total 
loss, then it would pay him what his car would likely sell for, prior to the accident. And when  
deciding what the market value of a car is we think its reasonable that an insurer like LV 
should have regard to things like any pre-accident damage that a car has, as that will almost 
certainly affect the price that the car would most likely sell for. 
When looking to value  Mr Zs car LV eventually followed  well recognised  guidance by using 
the valuations  provided by industry  trade guides  used for valuing  second hand cars. And 
having arrived at a figure it then made  a deduction from the trade  guide  valuation to reflect 
the fact that Mr Zs car had some  corrosion, which LV felt reduced the cars value. Mr Z 
doesn't think that was fair.
Ref: DRN74692682But where a car has damage beyond the wear and tear a car of that age can be expected to 
show we think its reasonable for an insurer to adjust its pre-accident value accordingly. LV 
has shown us images of the cars  pre-existing rust, which show that it had some fairly 
extensive corrosion  in parts. Its also provided an estimate for what it would cost to repair all 
the pre-existing damage, which was over £2,400. And we will generally say it's fair for an 
insurer to deduct  up to 50% of the costs  of repairing pre-accident damage from a total loss 
valuation. So as LV chose  to reduce its valuation by £200, which is far less than 50% of the 
estimated cost of repairing the pre-existing damage, I think that deduction was reasonable. 
Thats because I think its likely that, had the car come up for sale before the accident,  the 
rust could  have devalued it by more than that.
Mr Zs pointed out that he repaired the car after buying it back from LV and had it MOTd. 
And the MOT report didn't  refer to the rust that LV said devalued it. But an MOT isnt a 
valuation service. Its a test to make  sure that the car is safe to be on the road. So the fact 
the MOT tester didn't refer to any rust doesn't mean that it wouldn't  affect  the car's  value,  it 
simply meant that it didn't cause the car to fail its MOT because of it. 
Mr Zs also said that other cars of the same age are likely to be in a similar condition.  But 
from a lay perspective I'm not convinced that's the case. As I've said above, LV has provided 
images to show some  significant corrosion. And it's clear its engineers felt that the extent of 
the rust would affect the cars value. I note Mr Z hasn't provided any alternative  expert  
evidence, beyond his own comments,  that indicates  that the rust to his car would be what  
can be expected  from a car of its age and mileage. So I don't think hes shown that the rust 
to his car is what can be expected for a car of that age and wouldn't affect its value. It follows  
that I dont  LV needs to increase its valuation. 
service
When LV initially arranged to collect Mr Zs car and take it to a repairer for assessment, its 
recovery agent was almost two hours later than the 90 minute window LV told him the 
recovery agent would arrive in. And during that period Mr Z was told he could expect  the 
recovery agent in around 20 minutes  but he didn't then arrive for almost two hours. So I can 
understand that this was a source  of frustration for Mr Z.
Mr Z's thinks LV should compensate him for the time he waited for the recovery  agent. But 
despite requests  Mr Z hasn't provided us with any evidence that he's actually out of pocket 
as result of the recovery agents delay. So I don't think LV needs to compensate  him beyond 
the previously offered  £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this incident  
caused Mr Z. Thats because Mr Z hasnt shown us that hes suffered  an actual loss. I think  
£50 is reasonable in the circumstances.
Similarly after his car was deemed  to be a total loss and Mr Z chose to retain  the salvage, 
Mr Z said LV didn't arrange for the car to be recovered from the garage that provided the 
repair estimate to his home address. But LV said it would reimburse Mr Z for reasonable 
costs for returning the car to his home address. And - despite requests  Mr Z hasn't 
provided evidence  of any costs he incurred in doing that. So, as he hasn't shown that 
recovering the car has cost him anything I don't intend to instruct  LV to pay him anything  
further.
Mr Z also complained about LVs handling of the claim. I note that when it initially  told Mr Z 
that his car was a total loss, it valued  it at £730. That figure  is around £600  below its final 
valuation and its not clear how LV arrived that figure. Its certainly not a valuation  given by 
Ref: DRN74692683the trade guides.  So I don't think it was a fair offer and it prompted Mr Z to complain which 
delayed the settlement of the claim. LV has acknowledged that some of its claim handling 
could have been better and offered Mr Z £50 compensation. But I don't  think that goes far 
enough to address Mr Zs distress and inconvenience. So I think it should  increase  that sum 
to £150 in total for the impact of its claims handling (not counting the £50 it offered for the 
delays associated with the vehicle recovery).
Mr Zs said that he would  like more done to prevent a business from following such  
questionable/bad tactics in the future . But were not the industry  regulator  and we dont 
impose fines or penalties;  thats the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).  Instead  
our role is to adjudicate on individual disputes. And where, as with Mr Zs case,  weve found 
that a business hasn't  treated a consumer fairly or reasonably and thats  caused  the 
consumer distress and inconvenience,  we award  appropriate compensation. And thats what 
I've done  in this case.
But, as hes probably  aware, Mr Z doesn't  have to accept my decision. And in that case  it 
won't be binding  and he can take whatever action he feels  necessary, for example through 
the courts, to resolve  his concerns.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr Z £50 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience arising from the 
issues with the initial recovery  of his car.
Increase its compensation for the other issues with its claims handling  including 
delays caused  by the unfair initial valuation to £150 in total.
LV should  pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr Z has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If LV pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr Z how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr Z a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7469268