K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains about Bestinvest (Consultants)  Limited (the business)
Hes unhappy about not being able trade  online and remains concerned about the business 
not operating  within industry guidelines.  
background 
Mr Y initially  placed a sell order online for the shares he owned in Blue Prism. But due to an 
unknown systems error the trade failed. He attempted to sell several more  times but 
received the same error  message. Eventually  he placed the order  manually over the 
telephone. 
Unbeknown to Mr Y, he made two successful trades at the time  one online and one over 
the telephone. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The contract notes  confirmed that two trades  were completed on 13 September  
2018. The first was at 10.01am for £19.44 per share, and the second  was at 10.09am  
for £21.50 per share.  
Once the business had established  what had happened it cancelled  the second  trade  
and converted  the first one, which was reasonable in the circumstances. 
The business offer to pay £250  compensation for trouble  and upset caused  by the 
lack of clarity surrounding what  had happened  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr Y accepted the £250 compensation for what he feels was misleading  information. But 
feels that the business hasnt provided  a good enough explanation of what  happened and 
why, there  was a systems error, or why it cancelled his more lucrative trades.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold the complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr Y says I think  the business  
has dealt with his complaint  reasonably.  
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ys frustration and 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  He has provided detailed submissions to support  the 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont  take the fact 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
Ref: DRN79311892The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr Y and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
For the record I think the £250 compensation offered for the trouble and upset caused is 
broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I know Mr Y says he accepts this on the basis of misleading information which  doesnt  
encompass whether  the business  executed the trade with industry  standard  practice. But I 
note the compensation amount also encompasses  the poor service  Mr Y experienced which 
I think includes its inability to execute the online trade as per his instruction. 
I acknowledge the problems experienced by Mr Y werent because  of liquidity issues  
affecting the Blue Prism shares  I note the business is sorry for providing this misleading 
information. The business says it was because  of the quoted price expiring, as Mr Y didnt  
confirm the transaction within the required timeframe of 12 seconds. It might  want  to 
consider extending the timeframe if its able to do so.
I appreciate Mr Y is likely  to be unhappy the subsequent trade made  over the telephone  
with the better share price   was cancelled, giving precedence to the earlier trade.   
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ys concerns, I understand this was because  the trade he made  
online (albeit at his third attempt), at 10:01am, with a price of £19.45   unbeknown to him  
had gone through and was the very first successful trade.
As a consequence, the subsequent request made by Mr Y manually over the telephone  
whilst under the impression that the earlier requests were all unsuccessful   was in fact a 
duplicate trade, because at 10:09am with a price of £21.50  it also went  through.  
But on balance, I think the business  investment  team  were  right to process the first 
successful request and not the subsequent one which was a duplicate. I also dont  think 
Mr Y wouldve  even  bothered with the manual request if hed known his online trade had 
gone through.  So, on balance I dont think the business  approach is unfair. 
I also dont think I can blame the business for not allowing Mr Y to choose.  And because  of 
this, I dont accept Mr Y has suffered a financial loss.  
Despite what Mr Y says, I dont think the business is deliberately withholding  information  or 
doing anything  to cause Mr Y trouble  and upset.  
I agree  with the investigator that the error message which appeared online was in line with 
the business terms and conditions. In other words the business hasnt acted outside  of its 
terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN79311893Im mindful of Mr Ys comments about  the business  and if it had followed best procedure, it 
will have taken 30 mins to explain. But despite  what Mr Y says, Im unable  to agree this 
wouldve been the case and hes provided no evidence to support  his suspicions. 
Evidently the business has only been  able to provide an answer after a thorough  
investigation which also proved that its initial conclusion  was wrong, which  it has readily  
accepted and paid compensation for. 
I appreciate Mr Y will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7931189