K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited  have handled and settled his escape  of 
water claim on his property insurance  policy.
All references to Ageas  in this decision also include  their agents.
background
Mr R reported some damp in his property to Ageas in October 2014. Ageas inspected  the 
property and couldnt find any damp  linked  to an event that Mr R could successfully claim for 
on his policy. It linked  the cause of the damage to the roof. It said the roof required 
substantial repairs to the rendering and brickwork, and the flat roof had reached the end of 
its lifespan. Ageas said the repairs were not covered  under Mr Rs policy. 
Ageas said it would cover the internal damage under the accidental damage section of 
Mr Rs policy,  once the repairs  to the roof were completed. It did a further  inspection  of the 
property when the repairs were finished  in February  2016. It found there were three areas of 
internal damage  in different rooms.  Ageas said it was likely these had occurred at different 
times, so it applied three excesses to Mr Rs policy in respect of the claim.
Ageas appointed a drying company in February  2016, and initially  said it would take around  
eight weeks to dry the property before the internal repairs could start. There  followed a 
period of around nine months  where the drying  company reported difficulty in drying  the 
bathroom area to a satisfactory level. Around this time, Ageas offered a cash  settlement to 
Mr R for the remaining works,  which he rejected.
Ageas replaced  the extractor fan in the bathroom in an attempt to complete the drying 
process. A surveyor then inspected the property and provided a report  around  
December 2016.  The report said the new fan wasnt  suitable or powerful enough to reduce 
the moisture levels in the bathroom, and it appeared there was a condensation  issue  
preventing the successful  drying of the area.
Ageas then told Mr R he needed  to fit a more powerful fan to dry the bathroom area before 
the repair work could  start. It said Mr R needed  to cover the cost of this, as the condensation 
issue in the bathroom wasnt related to the original claim. It stated it was an issue  of general  
maintenance.
After some discussion, Mr R agreed to fit a more powerful fan at his own cost. Around  
March 2017 the drying  company provided  an updated report.  It said it was unwilling to give a 
guaranteed drying certificate as it still had concerns over the condensation issues in the 
bathroom. Following  further discussions, Mr R requested  a second opinion from another 
drying company,  which Ageas agreed  to. 
The second  drying company monitored the property and in May 2017 confirmed the repair  
work could  now go ahead.  However,  Ageas building contractor wasnt happy  to guarantee 
the work  because of the previous damp and condensation issues. 
Ageas replaced  the contractor and after some  discussion  with Mr R and the tenants,  a date 
for the repair work was agreed for August 2017.  Ageas agreed to cover  alternative 
accommodation for the tenants, and later for loss of rent to Mr R. The works were  completed 
and signed off in September 2017.  
Ref: DRN77614212Between September 2017 and January 2018  Mr R continued to correspond  with Ageas to try 
to settle the outstanding aspects of the claim. Amongst other things, he submitted costs  for 
the electricity used by the drying company. He also requested reimbursement for the more  
powerful fan, and asked for compensation for the time spent dealing with the claim. Mr R 
also requested a drying certificate, which would be guaranteed for longer than the one year 
provided by the drying company.
Ageas responded to Mr Rs claim. It offered  to reimburse costs  for the electricity, less the 
standing charge and average  usage of the tenants over the 10-month  period. It offered Mr R 
£750 for the trouble and upset caused  during the claims period. But it said the cost of the fan 
wasnt covered under  Mr Rs policy. It also said the one-year drying certificate  issued was 
reasonable and standard practice for the drying  company, so it wouldnt be asking it to do 
any more.
Mr R disagreed and brought the complaint to our service. In addition to the above  points,  
Mr R also said he felt he shouldnt have had to pay three separate  excesses for the repair 
work. He said as it all started  and finished  at the same time it should be covered under one 
excess.
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend that Ageas needed to do 
anything further.  He said it was reasonable for Ageas to ask Mr R to replace the extractor 
fan with a more  powerful one, as the policy terms covered Mr R on a like for like 
replacement basis. He considered Ageas calculation for the cost of electricity and thought 
this was fair.
Our investigator also considered Mr Rs points about  paying  three  separate excesses but 
thought Ageas had been fair in applying these  to Mr Rs claim. He thought it was likely the 
incidents had occurred at different times. And he thought  the one-year  drying certificate 
issued was in line with the drying companys standard  guarantee. Taking everything into 
account, he felt there were some avoidable  delays  caused by Ageas, but he thought the 
£750 compensation offered was reasonable and so didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr R disagreed with our investigator. In summary, he disagreed that condensation was the 
underlying issue  in the bathroom. He thought the drying company monitored the situation 
erratically and didnt  provide him evidence of their methods when he asked. He said he felt 
coerced into buying  a more powerful fan in order to get the work completed.
Mr R also disagreed with three excesses  being applied to the claim  as the repair  work was 
all done at the same time. He thinks Ageas should  consider this and he should only pay one 
excess. Hes also said a one-year drying  certificate is unreasonable   it expired before the 
repair work was completed, and provided  evidence of longer  warranties  by other drying 
companies. He also thinks the amount of compensation offered by Ageas is insufficient  
based on the time he spent managing the claim - which included hiring a solicitor  in order to 
make a successful claim for loss of rent.
Mr R has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed  to me to 
make a final decision.
Ref: DRN77614213my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Ageas needs to 
do more to compensate  Mr R. Ill explain why below.
cost of replacement  fan
Ive considered Mr Rs comments about  being  coerced into buying  a more powerful fan so 
that the drying works could  be completed.  Ive also checked the terms and conditions of 
Mr Rs policy  to see what Ageas was responsible for covering. The policy terms concerning 
the reinstatement of damaged property  state, the cost of a repair  or replacementup to the 
value of the item in a condition substantially the same as, but not better  or more extensive 
than its condition immediately prior to the loss or Damage.
Ageas now says the condensation issues in the bathroom were as a result of pre-existing 
maintenance issues and ventilation. In addition, Ageas contractors werent  prepared  to start 
repair works without a drying  certificate.  So it thinks Mr R should meet the full cost of the 
replacement fan, as this was required in order to obtain a drying certificate.
In order to determine whether this is fair, Ive considered the report provided  by the first 
drying company,  which includes  details of their attempt to dry the bathroom. 
Correspondence between  the parties seems to indicate the initial  drying works were  
expected to take around eight weeks, starting in February 2016. The report  shows  the drying  
company made a number of visits to the property to monitor  and attempt to reduce  the 
moisture levels in the bathroom to an acceptable level.  I can also see that the drying  
company first raised  the issue of condensation  in August 2016, nearly six months after the 
drying process started   the report stated the dehumidifier was turned off, as it was full of 
water. 
The report  also comments on the new fan Ageas paid for  stating in December 2016  the 
new extractor fan has not got the power  to remove moisture build up from the tenants 
showering. It appears at this point the moisture readings for the wall were back  to an 
acceptable level, but there were concerns about  the level of condensation, which  might 
affect the repair work.
Its clear to me the bathroom took a significantly longer time than predicated to dry out. And I 
can see the bathroom was in use during this time with drying equipment installed. So taking 
this into account  along with the report,  I am persuaded  there were ongoing condensation  
issues. I also think it was reasonable for Ageas contractors to want  a drying certificate 
before starting  their work in order to indemnify themselves against any future issues. 
But in my opinion,  if the condensation issues were pre-existing and as a result of poor 
ventilation, then this should have been picked up by Ageas before the drying  work  started, 
and not six months  later as suggested in the drying  company report.  I also think  it was clear 
that the tenants use of the bathroom  contributed to this, so Ageas shouldve  been clear at 
the start with Mr R that the quickest way of finishing the claim would be to move the tenants 
out before  starting the drying process.  I cant see that they did this until much later in the 
claim.
Ive seen the correspondence  between  Mr R and Ageas about  the replacement  fan. And I 
can understand why he feels he was left with no other option but to purchase a more 
Ref: DRN77614214powerful fan to progress the claim. But I think if Ageas had acted correctly and notified Mr R 
of the condensation issues and the impact at a much earlier  stage of the claim,  its more 
likely he wouldve moved the tenants  into alternative accommodation, and there wouldve 
been no need to install a more powerful  fan. So I think  its only fair that Ageas reimburses 
Mr R for this cost.
I asked Ageas for their thoughts on reimbursing Mr R for the fan based on what  Id said 
above. Ageas disagreed with my findings.  It said Mr R notified them  in 2014 of a small 
amount of damp  in the bathroom. Ageas felt the costs of the more  powerful replacement fan 
provided a solution to the pre-existing issue as opposed to just replacing  the extractor fan.
In addition, Ageas says the fan wasnt required  or recommended solely to dry the bathroom 
from the damage arising from an insured  event.  It agreed the suppliers shouldve made them 
aware at an earlier stage the flat was not drying easily. But it said it often takes some time to 
monitor a property and work out what the issues are  and this wouldnt be possible before 
the drying even  started.
Ageas also disagreed with my conclusion that had the tenants vacated  the property at an 
earlier stage there wouldve been  no need for a more powerful fan. It said this wouldve been 
a false position  as once the repair work  was done  and normal  service resumed, the 
condensation issue wouldve resurfaced and further repair  work would be likely. 
Ive thought about what Ageas has said but Im not minded to change my position here. I do 
accept that it wouldve  been difficult to measure  the effect of the condensation  on the drying 
process at the start of the claim.  But as Ive said I think  it took far too long for this issue to be 
raised with Mr R  had the monitoring  been effective this wouldve happened  much sooner. 
I appreciate Ageas comment that if the property had been  dried  and reinstated without a 
new fan this would have been  a false position. And this may well have been the case. But 
based on everything Ive seen  I dont think this was by any means certain. However,  if Ageas 
believed that the condensation issues prevented  them from carrying out an effective and 
lasting repair  to the insured problem, then our services approach would be to pay for any 
uninsured work that contributed to that repair. So either way, I think Ageas needs to 
reimburse Mr R for the cost of the fan.
electricity costs
Mr R received a partial settlement from Ageas for the costs of electricity used whilst the 
property was being dried. He wants a full settlement for these costs. Ive checked the 
calculations Ageas did for the period covered. As the tenants were  still living  in the property I 
think its reasonable to assume they wouldve had some  average use and I can see Ageas 
has factored this into their calculation   including the standing charge. I can see Ageas has 
considered the tenants may have  used more electricity over the winter  months  but havent 
made any deductions for this. And theyve rounded up their calculation to give Mr R a slightly  
higher reimbursement.  So overall,  I think the calculation is fair and I dont think Ageas needs 
to pay anything more  to Mr R for the electricity costs.
drying certificate
Mr R says the drying certificate provided  was insufficient as it only guaranteed the drying 
works for one year. Hes provided evidence of other companies doing similar work and 
guaranteeing it for up to 30 years. Ageas has said the drying certificate provided is sufficient. 
Ref: DRN77614215It says a years guarantee is standard for the company  it uses so wont ask it to issue a 
longer guarantee for the work.
I appreciate Mr Rs concern about  the length  of drying certificate  issued  especially as this 
means that any problems  after this date wont be covered by it. Our investigator  spoke  to the 
drying company  and they confirmed the certificate issued  was in line with their standard 
practice. Ive also checked this and from the drying  standards of practice Ive seen, I am 
satisfied that a one year certificate isnt unreasonable for the work carried out. And in any 
event, if there were further  issues of damp found  in the property,  I would expect Ageas to 
investigate this to determine if the cause was related to its repair  work.
Whilst I am aware that there  are other  companies  who do similar  work  it is difficult  to 
compare across different  jobs, as the guarantee offered will be based  on a range of criteria. 
So as the guarantee  offered for the work  on Mr Rs property wasnt unreasonable,  Im not 
going to require Ageas to revisit this part of Mr Rs claim.
separate excess payments
Mr Rs said he should be paying  one excess for the claim as the work on the affected areas  
started and finished  at the same time. Ageas says the internal damage to the property was 
in three  separate areas and appeared to have occurred at different times. It also said it 
needed a drying  certificate to be issued before the repair work could start, and the 
condensation issues in the bathroom delayed this. I do appreciate Mr Rs comments that the 
repair works to all three areas started  and finished  around the same  time. But this was as a 
result of the contractor not wishing to proceed  without a drying certificate  for the whole 
property. For the claim to require one excess I would need to be satisfied the damage was 
related to the same event.
Ive considered the surveyors reports  on the internal damage from October 2014 and 
February 2016 to see if Ageas has applied the excesses fairly.  The initial report identified  
two areas  of damp  when the claim  was made   but it was noted  that these areas were 
noticeable up to a year before the claim was made. The second report  identifies three 
separate areas of damage; the bathroom, a bedroom, and a second floor lounge/first floor 
bedroom. All three causes were linked to roofing problems  in three separate  areas. The third 
area of damp was identified only after the surveyors returned following the repairs  to the 
roof. After  considering all of this, Im satisfied the areas identified by the surveyor were 
caused by separate issues of water ingress through the roof. Judging by the detail in the 
reports on the size and location  of each area of damp, I think its more likely than not that 
different sections of the roof failed at different times. So I think  it was reasonable for Ageas 
to treat these as separate  escape of water incidents each requiring its own policy excess.
compensation for delays
Ageas has offered Mr R £750 for the delays caused  during his claim. Mr R says this isnt 
enough  hes asking for a compensation payment of just under £4,000.
In determining whether  Ageas offer of compensation is fair, Ive considered a number of 
factors. Ive looked  at any avoidable delays in the duration of the claim. Ive also considered 
the amount of time spent  by Mr R in dealing with the various issues  above  what  I would 
normally expect to see for a claim of this size.
Ref: DRN77614216Based on everything  Ive seen, its clear there have been some  avoidable  delays by Ageas 
in dealing with this claim. For the most part this can be attributed to the drying programme, 
which lasted over nine months. I think this couldve been  better  monitored by Ageas and 
significantly contributed  to the overall  length  of the claim. I also think the discussions around 
alternative accommodation for the tenants and Mr Rs claim for loss of rent were prolonged 
and couldve  been handled better. And I think these discussions added to the overall  delay 
too. 
I can see there are parts of the claim where  Ageas have gone  beyond the terms of the policy  
in the interests  of being fair and reasonable. For example, it appears theyve compensated 
Mr R for loss of rent, but also covered the alternative  accommodation costs  for his tenants. 
And theyve  covered some of the late snagging  issues such as replacing a seal in the 
bathroom when  it wasnt clear who was responsible for it. So I have to weigh this up against  
the overall disruption to Mr R.
Having done so, I feel the £750 offered by Ageas is fair for the delays and inconvenience  
caused. I appreciate  my decision  here will disappoint Mr R as he has put a substantial  
amount of time and effort into this claim. But based on everything  Ive seen I wont  be 
requiring Ageas  to pay any further  compensation to Mr R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr R for the costs of the more powerful  replacement  extractor fan. Mr R 
has said this amounts to £925.50
Pay 8% simple interest on the sum above,  from the date Mr R made the payment, to 
the date of settlement ;
Pay Mr R £750 for the distress  and inconvenience caused, if it hasnt done so 
already.
 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Ageas Insurance Limited  deducts  
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Ageas 
Insurance Limited should give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr R accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN77614217Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7761421