K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that QIC Europe  Ltd unfairly voided his home insurance policy  (treated 
it as though it had never existed)  and refused to pay his claim.
background
When Mr I took out his home insurance policy in 2018, he told QIC that he hadnt  had a 
county court judgment  (CCJ) registered  against him within the last five years.
After he made a claim under the policy  QIC carried  out some  checks. It found a CCJ made in 
July 2014 and registered against someone  of the same name  as Mr I. It thought based on 
public information  searches that Mr I had been living  at the address referred to in the 
judgment at the relevant time.
Mr I said hed been living abroad since 2008 and had never  lived at the address in question, 
although his ex-partner had lived there  in 2003/2004. He provided QIC with a copy  of his UK 
driving licence  showing  a different UK address, a foreign driving licence,  foreign  visas for 
2014 and evidence of a visit to the UK in September 2014  for 7 days.
QIC didnt accept the evidence. It wasnt satisfied that Mr I had shown  he wasnt living at the 
address in question  in July 2014. It said if it had known about the CCJ, it would never have 
offered him a quotation  for a policy. So it voided  the policy and refunded the premiums.
Mr I brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. As Mr I didnt 
agree, the matter  has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the policy in question was entered into after 6 April 2013,  the relevant  law is the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA).  Under this, a 
consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
applying for or renewing insurance. The law sets out a number of considerations, which 
include that insurers should ask clear and specific questions about facts  they consider to be 
material to the risk under proposal. An insurer only has a remedy against consumers if they 
breached their duty of reasonable care and there was a qualifying misrepresentation, that 
is one which  adversely affected the insurers ability  to assess  the risk. The burden of proof 
lies on the insurer whos alleging breach of duty/misrepresentation.
Its not in dispute  that the question asked by QIC was clear. 
First of all, Ill look at whether QIC acted  fairly  in saying that the information provided  by Mr I 
was incorrect. It relied on the fact that there was someone with the same  name  and date of 
birth as Mr I linked to a company and listed at Companies House as resident in 2013 at the 
address shown on the CCJ in 2014. On the face of it I think this would be unlikely to be a co-
incidence. Mr I has admitted that the address was known to him. So I think  it was reasonable 
for QIC to say that it would assume that the information from Mr I that he wasnt living there 
at the relevant time was incorrect  unless  Mr I could  show otherwise.
Ref: DRN76880602In support of his position that he was living abroad when the CCJ was issued, Mr I provided  
QIC with several pieces of evidence.  Ill explain  why I think  it was reasonable for QIC to 
discount these.
Firstly he showed QIC his UK driving  licence, showing  he was resident at a different address 
in 2012. The licence was valid for 10 years. Not everyone updates  their driving licence  every  
time they move, although they are supposed to. So I can understand  QIC not attaching 
much weight to this or to the foreign  driving licence. In addition  the UK driving  licence was 
certified by a foreign law firm in 2016. That in itself doesnt show  that Mr I was living  abroad 
in July 2014. 
Mr I also provided  evidence  that hed flown abroad in September  2014 and a copy  of a 
foreign visa issued  in the same month.  He also gave a copy  of a foreign visa for a 30 day 
stay issued in March 2014.  Again these  dont prove  where he was living in July 2014.  
I can understand QIC not being satisfied by the evidence Mr I had given it and asking for 
stronger evidence such as bank statements, tenancy agreements  or utility bills covering July 
2014. QIC thinks some at least of these  should  be available and I agree. Unfortunately for 
him, Mr I hasnt  been able to provide  these.  In the absence of more persuasive  evidence to 
the contrary I think QIC is entitled to assume that Mr I was more likely than not living  at the 
address shown on the CCJ in July 2014  when it was issued.  
It follows from this that I think QIC was also entitled to assume  Mr I knew about  the CCJ. 
Thats because before taking someone to court, the person whos  owed money must send 
the debtor  a warning letter. Debtors  are also sent a number of documents from the court  
before the CCJ is issued.  I think its likely  at least some  of these would have come to Mr Is 
attention.
So I think that QICs view that Mr I failed  to take reasonable care was fair. As it wouldnt 
have issued the policy if it had known about the CCJ, this means a qualifying  
misrepresentation was made. And so under CIDRA  QIC was entitled to void the policy and 
refund the premiums  which  it agreed to do.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7688060