K820x#14complaint
Ms Vs complaint is about the amount of compensation  Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited (FICL) has offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy she took out related  to a store card.
background
In November 2001 Ms V opened  a store card and took out a PPI policy  to cover the 
repayments in certain  circumstances. Ms V has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold.
FICL was not responsible for the sale of the PPI but has now accepted  liability  for the 
complaint as the underwriter of the insurance  policy. It looked at Ms Vs complaint and 
agreed the PPI was mis-sold. It has offered her £20.50 in compensation to settle the 
complaint.
Ms V wasnt happy with the amount of compensation  FICL offered.  She said she didnt agree 
FICL had used the correct dates that the PPI was active on the account, to work  out the 
compensation correctly.  FICL said the PPI was cancelled by Ms V in May 2002. But Ms V 
says she never cancelled it as she didnt know she had PPI on the account.
When Ms V brought her complaint to this service our adjudicator  said what FICL  had offered  
was fair. Ms V still wasnt happy  so asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL has offered  to settle the complaint on the basis the PPI was mis-sold. So in this 
decision Im not looking  at how the policy came  to be sold. Im only considering  what  would 
be fair compensation to try to put Ms V in the position she would have been in if shed never 
taken out the PPI policy. 
FICL has limited records about any customer accounts before August 2005. It does have 
some basic  computer records  which have  some summary information about  Ms Vs account. 
It is not unusual  for businesses to have few or no records  after so many  years as they are 
only legally required to keep records  for up to six years.
The basic  computer records FICL has provided  show the store  card account opened on 23 
November 2001  and the PPI started on this date. The records also show  that the PPI was 
cancelled on 15 May 2002.
I know Ms V is very adamant she couldnt have cancelled the PPI as she never knew she 
had it. However there is no evidence  available to show any PPI was paid after May 2002.  
The only other records available  about the PPI show the total ever paid in premiums, which 
was £4.92; and a note indicating that a telephone call was taken on 15 May 2002 and the 
PPI was cancelled.  So a rebate was then processed  for £1.74 which was paid back in June 
2002.
I know Ms V doesnt agree the cancellation  date can be correct  but I have nothing  to show  
that there  is any inaccuracy in this record. Ms V may have rung up with a query about 
something on her account and PPI may have been discussed and cancelled. It was over 15 
Ref: DRN74041102years ago, memories can fade, and with no alternative documents  about  the account  I think  
the written computer records are likely to be the most reliable about the events  at the time.
FICL has accepted  Ms V was sold a PPI policy and that it ran for a few months. So it is 
paying her back all the premiums charged, interest  paid on those premiums because  they 
were added to the account, and also some compensatory interest for not having the use of 
the money that was paid for the PPI. This is what I would expect it to do.
I note an error was made in the original  calculation which said £20.50 was due in 
compensation. A later calculation made in the May 2015 shows  the compensation should  be 
£13.29. But FICL agreed to honour the original higher offer that had been made.
I think what FICL has done is fair in all the circumstances  of this complaint. Without any 
evidence to show there may be an error  in the end date for the PPI as shown on the records  
provided, I can see no reason to say the PPI was charged to the account  beyond May 2002.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I think the £20.50 that Financial Insurance  Company Limited has 
offered in compensation to Ms V is fair and Im not telling it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7404110