K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1987. Ms M says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Ms M says that she was told that she had to have the MPPI in order  to get her mortgage as 
her job was low paid,  and she was borrowing a large amount of money,  and couldnt get a 
mortgage elsewhere. She also says that she was told she had to take it and was not told that 
she could choose  who to have MPPI with.
But I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it 
happened over 30 years ago.
Ms M applied for her mortgage and MPPI  policy through the post  and Bradford & Bingley 
has provided a copy  of her application. I can see that MPPI was presented as an optional 
product and has been selected. And while the application doesnt say that Ms M could 
potentially have taken  the MPPI with another provider, Bradford & Bingley wasnt  under any 
obligation to promote a competitors products. Ms M has then gone  on to sign the application, 
agreeing to the information on it. 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the MPPI to Ms M so it didnt  have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Ms M about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what  shes said about her father 
being able to pay her mortgage for her if she needed him to. But while  I understand that 
family are often keen  to help out, circumstances  can change.  And ultimately the mortgage  
repayments were Ms Ms responsibility. So this point doesnt  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Ms M paid on her MPPI   and whether Bradford & 
Bingley treated her unfairly. 
Bradford & Bingley  has told us that the commission for Ms Ms MPPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Bradford & Bingley has been working 
Ref: DRN75052942this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Ms Ms commission  was less 
than half the cost of the MPPI.  As thats  the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about  the 
commission  so I dont  think  Bradford & Bingley treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Ms M back any of the commission she paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7505294