K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr M complain about the mis-sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI) by Lloyds 
Bank PLC, when  trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc (C&G).  PPI was sold to Mr B and 
the late Mrs B alongside a joint mortgage and a further mortgage advance. Mr B and Mr M  
are the joint administrators of the late Mrs Bs estate. Mr B also brings the complaint on his 
own behalf as well. 
Ill refer to the business as Lloyds in the rest of this decision.
background
Mr B and his late mother Mrs B, took out a joint mortgage  in February 1998. Alongside  
that mortgage they were sold a PPI policy covering Mr B only. He was covered for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per successful claim. The 
policy cost £22.50 per month and wouldve covered their mortgage repayments on their 
£45,000 mortgage.
In March 1999, Mr B and Mrs B took out a further mortgage advance  for £10,000. They  
extended the amount of PPI cover  Mr B had to meet the increase in their monthly  
mortgage repayment. The PPI premium increased to £27.50 per month and covered  
their mortgage repayment in full. 
Mrs B has since passed away. Mr B and Mr M are administering her estate. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and Mr M disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. They said, in summary,  if Mr B and Mrs B had been told 
that PPI was optional and if PPI had been  discussed  with them,  they wouldnt have 
taken out the cover  on either occasion. Mr B said he didnt know PPI had been added 
and it was added without his consent. He said they didnt need PPI given his work 
benefits and Mrs Bs savings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general approach to 
complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant  know  what  was discussed with Lloyds at the time of these sales. Given  how long 
ago this happened, I cant reasonably expect Mr B to remember  everything from the time. 
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr B and Mrs B paperwork. Banks often only keep records  
for six years and under data protection rules  are only able to keep data so long as 
reasonably appropriate. Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage account closed in 2004. So, we dont 
hold it against  the bank  in circumstances like this.
Based on the limited  information now available, I dont fairly have enough to conclude that 
Mr B and Mrs B werent told that PPI was optional or given a choice about taking it.
Fairly, in my view, Lloyds has treated these sales as advised sales.  And so have I. 
So that means Lloyds also had to check the policy was right for Mr B and Mrs B, as 
Ref: DRN77439842well as giving them information  about  the policy  that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so that Mr B and Mrs B could decide  for themselves if they wanted to 
take out the cover.
Only Mr B was covered  under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage,  Ive 
also taken into account Mrs B circumstances too at the time of the sales when 
considering if the PPI was right for them. Ive looked carefully  at their 
circumstances and I think PPI was suitable. I say this because:
Mr B met the policy requirements,  so he was eligible for the cover. His 
mother, Mrs B, wasnt working, so it looks right that the policy covered 
Mr B only.
Mr B said he was employed and he wouldve got six months  worth  of sick 
pay at full pay and six months worth  at half pay from his employer. The 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and for up to 12 months 
per successful  claim. It wouldve also covered him if he became 
unemployed. Having the cover wouldve allowed him to use his work 
benefits to meet his other household expenditure, knowing their mortgage 
repayments were protected. He couldve made repeated claims on the 
policy, providing long term protection. So, overall, I think the PPI couldve 
been useful for Mr B and Mrs B, if Mr B was sick or lost his job;
Mr B said he believed  that Mrs B had around £30,000 in savings at the 
time of the sale of both of these policies.  Understandably, now, he cant  
be sure about this. But, even if Mrs B had this amount in savings, I think  
the PPI couldve  still be of use to them. It wouldve allowed  them  to keep 
hold of these savings for the purpose for which they were  intended. I think 
this was likely to have  been important to Mrs B as they chose  to take out a 
£45,000 mortgage rather than use these savings  to put towards the 
purchase of the house. Similarly, when they took out a £10,000 further 
advance, again  they chose not to dip into these savings. 
I cant see that Mr B was affected by the main  limitations or exclusions  in the 
policy at the time that these policies were  taken out in 1998 and 1999. He was 
later medically retired, but he said the condition he was suffering from leading  
to his retirement hadnt impacted on his day to day living at the time PPI was 
taken out. So, I think he probably  couldve benefitted from everything  the 
policy offered. And I dont think having better information about the exclusions 
and limitations in the policy wouldve  put them off buying PPI. I think the PPI 
provided them with valuable protection to safeguard their mortgage and home; 
and
Ive seen nothing  to suggest that at the time of the sale the PPI wasnt  affordable.
It cost £22.50 per month initially,  rising to £27.50 after the further advance. They
couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy at any time without losing out financially.
Overall, I think  the PPI was suitable  for Mr B and Mrs B at the time of these sales.
As Ive said, Lloyds  also had to give Mr B and Mrs B information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that they could make an informed choice about the PPI. Its possible Lloyds 
couldve given them clearer information,  particularly  about the costs  of the policy. But for 
Ref: DRN77439843much the same reasons that I found  the PPI was suitable, I dont think  Mr B and Mrs B 
wouldve decided not to take out PPI if better  information had been provided.
It follows I dont think they lost out because  of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr B in his own 
right and both Mr B and Mr M as administrators of Mrs Bs estate to accept or reject my 
decision before  21 December 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7743984