K822xcomplaint
Ms Bs complaint is about the handling of a claim under her central heating insurance policy
with Aviva Insurance Limited.
Aviva Insurance Limited uses agents  to deal with claims on its behalf.  All references to Aviva
in this decision should be read as including those agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier in July 2020, the mains part of which is 
copied below:  
On 22 December 2018, Ms B made a claim under her policy as only one of her radiators 
was heating up. Aviva sent a contractor out the following  day. He apparently managed to get
some of the radiators working but said a gas engineer was needed to fix the problem
properly. Another  appointment was therefore made for 24 December 2018. The engineer
said there was sludge in the central  heating system  and added  some inhibitor to try and
clear this but couldnt get the other  radiators to heat up. The engineer said hed need  to also
take a sample  of the water  from the system to be tested and ordered some temporary
heaters for Ms B to use in the meantime.
The water sample was apparently taken on 2 January  2019,  after no one turning up at a
previous appointment on 28 December 2018. During this visit the engineer also said the
boiler needed a new two-port valve. This was ordered and an appointment was scheduled
for 7 January 2019  for this work to be completed  but the engineer didnt turn up until 6pm
and this was too later for Ms B.
The engineer re-attended on 9 January 2019 to fit the part but the valve he brought  with him
was not the correct one. When Ms B chased Aviva  to see when the part would be fitted,  
Aviva wrote to tell her that she needed to have some work  done to the wiring for the two-port  
valve in the boiler,  as the electrics kept tripping and the policy would be suspended until she 
had that done, and if it wasnt  done  within 28 days the policy  would be cancelled.
Ms B says she booked  an electrician  who came out on 23 January 2019  but he said it was a
job for a gas engineer and he could not do anything.  Aviva  told Ms B to get a second opinion
from another electrician  but then agreed to send the gas engineer  out again anyway.
In the meantime, Aviva said that the results  from the water  sample  showed  high levels  of
scale/sludge within the system and that Ms B therefore needed to have a power flush  carried
out, which would not be covered under the policy. It quoted  her for this and Ms B asked for
this in writing due to a hearing impairment.  Aviva refused and said she could only book this
over the phone and if she wasnt  happy  to go ahead then she should  instruct  her own
contractor to do the power flush.
Ms B says she got a contractor to look at it and he pointed out that the company that carried
out the water testing,  and which had recommended the power flush had also stipulated that
this must be done with its own brand  products. Ms Bs contractor also told her that the power
flush wasnt required and could cause more  damage  to the system.
Avivas engineer went out again  on 31 January 2019 to give a second opinion  about the
work required to fit the valve and he also apparently said the power  flush  wasnt required
Ref: DRN78140762and could cause  more damage. I understand the problem was finally resolved (albeit there
was still one radiator  not heating up) on 22 February  2019.  Aviva said this was a temporary
repair, as the failure to do a power  flush means  the debris in the system will cause
blockages, which will mean the radiators wont heat up again in the future. then said the
boiler had reached  the end of its lifespan. Aviva then told Ms B that the boiler was at the end
of its lifespan  and it would not cover any further  issues, as it needs to be replaced.
Ms B is very unhappy with the way her claim  was dealt with. She says:
Aviva  has mis-sold the policy  to her. It carried out an initial  service  check of the boiler
in July 2017 and an annual service  in July 2018; the boiler passing each time. She
was told the boiler  was insurable, and then six months later it failed and apparently
needs replacing and theres no cover when an emergency occurs.
The policy is not clear  about the relationship  between Aviva  and the claims-handlers.
Her own engineer  advised that a power  flush wasnt  the best solution, as it can cause
damage to the system and property. Avivas  engineer also confirmed the same  when
he attended on 31 January 2019.
Aviva  damaged the boiler door when repairing the problem, which  meant it wasnt
closing, it is the cover  which protects several working parts  of the boiler and means it
is now unserviceable. Aviva has said the clips required to fix this are obsolete and so
the boiler needs to be replaced.
The same  engineer that damaged  the cover also left the pump in the airing cupboard
leaking. Another engineer  came out around  a week later to sort it out.
She has reported the broken cover  to Gas Safe who came and inspected the boiler.
He said he was not able to complete an inspection because of the damaged cover
and said that if the boiler stops  working, there will be a problem.
The only way to fix the problem properly is to re-pipe  the central heating system  and
replace the radiators. This is not an upgrade  just a repair of the problem.
There were  considerable delays  in Avivas handling of the claim,  which  meant she
was without heating  and hot water  over Christmas and for several weeks  until 22
February 2019 when  Aviva did a temporary repair. It was extremely  cold weather and
she was also unable  to work.
Some heaters were delivered to her on 28 December 2018 but the instructions
werent clear  and she couldnt  use them.
As there  are conflicting opinions about what was wrong with the boiler, she wants  a
report from the engineer  that said its upgrade was necessary.
The cost of the power flush and a new boiler  should be covered by the policy, which
has a £4,000 claim limit and a £500 contribution for a replacement boiler. Ms B wants
Aviva to replace  the boiler or pay her £5,833.53 which is the cost of the replacement
of the boiler and system, without  her contribution, so she can get it done privately.
Aviva says it repaired a leak in the boiler  pump and restored heating to eight out of the nine
radiators in Ms Bs property, and so has fulfilled its obligations under the policy. Aviva says
the policy is not a maintenance  policy, it is intended  to deal with breakdowns only. Ms Bs
boiler is 25 years old and needs to be replaced  due to general system inefficiency but this is
not covered by the policy. The boiler  is still working  and so would not be replaced under the
policy. Aviva  said its advice  was correct  a power  flush was needed given the outcome of
the tests on the water  sample. Its engineers would not normally  go round checking each
radiator to clean  them out but because Ms B had been without heating he agreed to do so.
Ms B took the policy out in 2017  at which  time the system was working,  a year and a half
later it failed due to a build up of debris.
Ref: DRN78140763Aviva did however offer £750 compensation in recognition of the delays. It also said it would
review any costs Ms B incurred for alternative  heating, and any third party  engineers once
proof was provided.  Aviva  denied damaging the boiler cover but offered to come and fix the
clips to the front panel of the boiler as a goodwill gesture. Aviva also says the cover is
decorative only and is not a safety  feature and is designed to be removed to allow access  to
the gas valve and pilot assembly, so the pilot light can be lit if necessary. It did go out but
said the clips are no longer available and it cant repair this.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think it should be upheld,  as she
thought Aviva had made a reasonable offer of settlement and didnt think  that the additional
work required was covered under  the policy with Aviva.
Ms B does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been  passed to me.
In the meantime, Ms B says her own gas engineer  attended in September 2019 to service
the boiler and he repaired  the remaining radiators for £75. Ms B says the engineer  told her
that there  is also some other work that needs doing,  which will cost another £150. Ms B says
the problem with the radiators was therefore  a simple job. Her engineer  also said again  that
a power flush would be counter productive; that there are other methods which would  be
preferable to clear a blockage but there  is not currently  any blockage  to be cleared. Ms B
also says that he was not able to repair the boiler  cover damaged  by Aviva.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
broken clips
There is very little evidence about how the clips came to break. However,  I have no reason
to doubt that they broke while Avivas  engineers  were working  on the boiler.  Ms B says that
the lack of clips means the boiler cant now be repaired and, as the clips cant now be
replaced, Aviva should replace the boiler.
I am not persuaded by this. The boiler is working  and although I note Ms Bs comments
that as the clips are broken there is a fault with it, this means it is not
repairable/replaceable under the policy.  Aviva  would only be responsible for replacing the
boiler if it were established that it had broken the clips negligently and that the boiler  had
to be replaced as a sole and direct result of that negligence.
Parts do deteriorate and it is not uncommon for clips and screws  to break when work is done
on an appliance, even  when removed as carefully  as possible. In addition, while I accept
that the cover is not decorative as such (I accept that it is protecting some  internal parts  of
the boiler) there is no convincing evidence that the boiler cant  be serviced  or repaired
due to the clips not being  in place. Ms Bs engineer apparently serviced  the boiler in
September 2019 and the boiler was also inspected by Gas Safe and there  was no finding
that it is unsafe as a result of this. The engineer did note that most parts of the boiler are
obsolete but didnt say it would not be repairable solely because the clips were broken;
and I see nothing in the Gas Safe report to suggest this either.
Ref: DRN78140764I am not therefore  persuaded that Aviva  needs  to replace the boiler  due to the broken
clips. I consider that some additional  compensation to acknowledge this is more
appropriate.
power flush and electric remedial work
Avivas engineers strongly recommended  that Ms B have a power flush  carried out and she
was told no other repairs  would be done  until she had done so.
Aviva says that a power flush would be considered to be general household maintenance.
However, I am not persuaded by this. I say this as, in my view, most policyholders would not
consider a power flush to constitute  normal day-to-day maintenance of a central  heating
system and I have seen  no evidence that boiler manufacturers  recommend that a power
flush procedure be carried out as part of the general maintenance of the heating system.  A
policyholder will also not know generally  when, or if, a power flush  is considered necessary.
In addition, there is some debate about  the use of power flushes, as the contrary advice
from Ms Bs own engineer shows.
Aviva told Ms B that her boiler  cover was suspended until she had the power flush carried
out:
A water  sample was taken by the attending engineers as he suspected  there was
sludge/debris in the system.  The Report  shows a loss of boiler efficiency, fuel wastage  and
noise, and the inhibitor concentration is low or absent. A system cleanse  needs to be carried
out as per the recommendations on the report and a suitable inhibitor added. This is in line
with BS7953 2006 Code  of Practice for Treatment of Water in Domestic Hot Water Central
Heating Systems.
Unfortunately, the cost of the remedial  work  will have  to be met by you. May I refer
you to your policy terms and conditions, which state:
k) sludge/scale/rust within the system or damage  caused by any other  chemical
composition of the water.
Once this work has been carried out your  boiler  cover can be reinstated.  The remainder of
your policy cover is unaffected.
I cant see anything in the policy wording which would permit  Aviva to suspend  boiler
cover until a power flush has been carried  out. It refers to an exclusion of cover for damage
caused by sludge and scale  but this is not the same  as suspending all cover for the boiler.
The policy also refers to maintenance  work (and please note my comments above about
this) and says that until the maintenance work  is carried out we will be unable  to offer any
cover for the affected part of your system  . But even if I accepted this clause was fair, the
boiler was not apparently affected  by the water  quality. The debris  in the system  was
possibly causing  problems with flow through some  of the pipework but was not affecting  the
boiler itself (and the repair also involved replacement of a valve, so the water  quality was not
the only issue).
In addition, the power flush  was not needed  in order to rectify this problem. The system was
repaired and heating  restored, without a power flush. While the water in the system may
have needed to be replaced, this does not establish that a power flush  was the only way of
Ref: DRN78140765doing this. Indeed the water quality  report recommends a system cleanse  (which would
usually involve replacing the water  and introducing an inhibitor) but this does not necessarily
mean this has to be done by a power flush, which would force water through  the system  to
try and dislodge scale  and debris.
The suspension of boiler cover and the way the recommendation for the power flush quoted
above has been worded  (including quoting an industry Code of Practice)  implies the
consumer has no choice  and it is difficult to avoid the conclusion  that this was to effectively
coerce the consumer  into having an expensive procedure carried out. This is not
reasonable, is not treating  its customers fairly and is contrary to the policy terms,  as Aviva
had no right to suspend boiler cover in this situation.
In addition, Avivas agents refused to provide a written  quote for this work,  which  was
unreasonable. Aviva wrote to Ms B in January 2019 to state  that its on demand department
would only provide a telephone quote  and she would  also have to agree to the work by
telephone. As this quote was in relation  to private work and not work provided under the
insurance policy, I have  no jurisdiction to take this issue forward.  Suffice  to say, I do not
consider Aviva acted  fairly in defending the refusal  to provide a written  quote to Ms B.
As stated above, the power flush and the electrical  work were not required in order to
restore heating to Ms Bs home and I do not consider that Aviva acted fairly in relation to this
issue. This caused significant delay in resolving the problems and restoring Ms Bs heating.
replacement boiler  and re-piping system
I note a letter written to Ms B from Aviva says that it confirmed the wiring  alterations were
not required and the power flush would cause further damage but that the boiler  has passed
its lifespan and so, if she continued to have problems, Ms B she would have to have  any
repairs done privately.
I dont think that is acceptable. There is no provision in the policy  for Aviva to determine  that
it simply wont provide any cover if the boiler is old. If it is not working then Aviva was
obliged to repair it or determine that it was beyond repair, and act in accordance with the
policy terms. It is an old boiler but Aviva knew this when it agreed to insure  it only 18
months before.
I understand the boiler was working  after the repairs in late February and early March  2019.
Therefore, I do not consider that Aviva needs  to replace the boiler. However,  it was not
reasonable or in line with the policy terms for it to suggest it would not cover the boiler at all
because of its age.
Ms B says the repairs werent  complete at the time the complaint  was brought  to us, as one
radiator was still not working.  She said initially it could only be repaired properly by re-piping
the system and/or replacing the boiler.  However,  it appears she has now had the remaining
radiator fixed.
Aviva says it is a temporary fix because  there  is still debris in the system which  might  cause
blockages again.  However, overall it appears  the system has been repaired and I dont
therefore consider  that Aviva has to re-pipe  the system. Aviva didnt complete the repair
however, so I consider it should reimburse  the cost of the repair  done by Ms Bs own
engineer of £75. Ms B says the engineer also recommended some other work at an
estimated cost of £150. Its not clear  what this work is and I have no evidence  it has been
Ref: DRN78140766paid. If Ms B can provide more evidence  about  this, I will consider it but at this time, I can
only require Aviva to reimburse the £75.
time taken  to deal with claim
There were considerable  delays in Aviva restoring the heating in Ms Bs home. Initially a
plumber was sent out, even though  it was a central  heating issue, which  meant a two day
delay before anything was done and one unnecessary  appointment. There was then a four
day delay before the next scheduled appointment and the engineer didnt turn up. 
Essentially nothing was done to repair the problem  until 22 February  2019.
The insistence on the power flush and rewiring  both of which proved to be unnecessary  -
caused considerable delay. There was no need for Ms B to be without heating for so long.
Her heating  was restored  without  the power flush being carried out (even though she was
willing to have it done).
I understand there were around seven attendances, between  December 2018 and February
2019, before  most of the heating was working; and there was a further attendance on
1 March 2019, as the pump  was leaking.
I do not consider  the compensation offered by Aviva to be sufficient to reflect  the distress
and inconvenience  this delay and its handling of the claim would have undoubtedly caused
to Ms B. Having taken  everything  into account (including the number of appointments Ms B
had to accommodate; the missed appointments; the trouble caused regarding the power
flush and rewiring; the broken clips;  and suspending the policy  unfairly, among other things) I
consider that the total sum of £1,250 to be appropriate and in line with awards made in other
cases.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva  Insurance Limited to pay Ms B:
the total sum of £1,200 compensation (to include the £750 already offered, so if that 
has already been paid,  Aviva  only needs to pay the remaining £500); and
£75 for the cost of work done by her engineer.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Aviva has said it has nothing further to add. 
Ms B has she accepts my provisional  decision. She also says her engineer carried out the additional  
work on 11 October 2019 and she paid him £170 for this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78140767As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision, I see no reason to change my 
findings with regard to Avivas  handling of this matter and the total compensation appropriate 
to reflect  the trouble this caused  to Ms B. 
In my provisional decision,  I determined that total compensation of £1,250 should be paid. 
However, in the final section of my provisional  decision  I put the figure £1,200  by mistake 
(although I referred  correctly to separate sums of £500 and £750). I remain of the opinion 
that Aviva  should pay a total of £1,250 compensation (to include the £750 already offered 
but which Ms B says was not paid);  and reimburse Ms Bs costs of £75 paid to her own 
engineer. 
Ms B says she paid a further £170 to her engineer for other  work to resolve the problems 
with her heating but I have not been  provided with any details of what this work was, or proof  
of payment.  I do not therefore consider that I can reasonably ask Aviva  to pay her this 
additional amount.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms B:
the total sum of £1,250 compensation; and
£75 for the cost of work done by her engineer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7814076