K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a van he has been financing through an agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr F took receipt  of a new van in July 2015.  He financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. 
In July 2018 when hed completed 12,731 miles in the van he reported a whining noise 
coming from the vans engine. He took it to a garage  who said the gearbox would require 
stripping and they may be a need to overhaul  a bearing.
Mr F contacted Santander in September 2018 and asked them  to pay for the gearbox repair. 
But Santander explained  that they were only responsible for faults that existed when  the van 
was supplied and, given the passage  of time,  they thought Mr F would need to demonstrate  
the fault with the gearbox was present  at the inception of the deal.
Mr F had a garage provide a report on the van. They said the bearings used in this kind of 
van were a known weakness  and not capable of dealing with the forces applied through  the 
transmission. They suggested the fault would have been there  from the start.
Santander arranged  an independent inspection. The inspector was able to replicate the 
problem Mr F complained of but thought it was most likely the fault was a deterioration  
issue. He said it was very unlikely  to be a manufacturing fault as that would have 
developed much sooner.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the independent inspectors comments  and considered  some 
internet evidence Mr F had provided of faults with gearboxes of this type. But he wasnt 
persuaded this would change the engineers view on the matter  and he therefore thought it 
was most likely the fault wasnt  there,  or developing,  at the inception of the finance  
agreement. He therefore didnt think Santander  needed to take any further action.
But Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators  view and he therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr F so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN72098302Mr F acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Santander,  who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr F. The van here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults at the onset of the agreement.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the van was faulty when supplied and this fault made it not of satisfactory quality, Id 
think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.  
But Santanders responsibility for the van is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a van developed a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that, as is the case here, wed usually look to the consumer to 
prove this was the case.
Im not persuaded there has been sufficient evidence the gearbox fault was present or 
developing when  Mr F took receipt  of the van.
Im more persuaded  by the comments of the independent inspector than I am by the 
comments from the garage Mr F referred  his van to because:
the independent inspector is a very experienced engineer and has provided a 
declaration of his independence  in this matter and an understanding of his duty to the 
court if the matter  went that far;
the report Mr F obtained cant be considered truly independent as Mr F was clearly 
the garages customer.
The independent inspector said that he did not consider  the noise from the gearbox to be 
developing at the point of supply and he thought it was more likely to be a result  of in service  
wear. Im persuaded by his expertise that that is most likely to be the case.
Ive considered what Mr F said. I dont think its likely the inspectors opinion would have 
changed if hed taken the van on a more extensive  road test. It appears  that he was able to 
identify a problem  on a short test drive and I therefore think  that was sufficient.
Ref: DRN72098303Im also not persuaded that its likely the van was suffering from a manufacturing fault. I say 
that because the independent expert  has explained,  in his expert view, that is very unlikely 
given the time thats passed. In those circumstances I dont think his opinion would be likely 
to change if he was asked to consider the internet  evidence Mr F has supplied.  Its the 
inspectors opinion that any manufacturing  fault would have shown itself earlier if it were 
present at all.
So I dont  think theres sufficient evidence of a fault with this van at the point of supply and I 
therefore dont  think it would be reasonable to ask Santander to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7209830