K822xcomplaint
A company which Ill refer to as M complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked its 
current account without  notice or explanation.
Mr and Mrs H are Ms directors and bring  the complaint on its behalf.
background 
Barclays applied a block to Ms business  current account on 2 April 2019, while conducting a 
review of the personal accounts that Mr and Mrs H held with the bank (and which is the 
subject of a separate complaint). Barclays completed its review on 17 April 2019 and 
removed the block on Ms account  that day.
When Mrs H discovered on 2 April that she couldnt access her accounts, including  Ms, she 
called Barclays. The bank  told her this it was conducting an internal review of her accounts, 
which could take up to ten working  days to complete.
Concerned at the impact that being unable to access  the account would have on the 
business, Mrs H raised  a complaint. She was particularly concerned at Ms inability to pay its 
staff. But in its final response letter, Barclays said that Ms account hadnt  actually been 
blocked or subjected  to a review.
One of our investigators  reviewed Ms complaint. He found that Barclays  had blocked Ms 
account as an extension of its review  of Mr and Mrs Hs personal accounts. He thought  that 
had been reasonable  in light of information  Barclays had received, with the action taken in 
line with both the banks standard procedure and the terms and conditions of the account.  
But he noted  that Barclays had slightly exceeded its timescale  of ten working  days  to 
complete the review,  causing M unnecessary  inconvenience while the account  block 
remained in place. So he recommended that Barclays pay it £250 for this. 
Barclays accepted  our investigators  view, but Mrs H didnt. So the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator,  Ive found that Ms account  was suspended  so its unclear why 
Barclays suggested otherwise in its response to the complaint. 
The terms and conditions  of Ms account  allow for this in certain  circumstances. And banks 
are required  to have  such  measures in place to fulfil a number of legal and regulatory  
obligations. 
Here, the underlying issue was in relation to Mr and Mrs Hs personal accounts. In a 
separate complaint, Ive found Barclays decision to review those accounts  reasonable 
based on the information it received. Given the connection through  Mr and Mrs H, I also find 
it reasonable that the bank extended the suspension  across all the accounts that Mr and 
Mrs H had. So while I recognise that this will have had a considerable impact on M and the 
Ref: DRN72543952delayed payment of wages  will also have affected its staff,  I dont think Barclays  did anything 
wrong in blocking  Ms account until it had completed its review.
I think Barclays gave Mrs H as much  information  as it could, in the circumstances, about 
what was happening and what the next steps were.  On the day the blocks  were applied,  it 
told her that the review  would be complete within ten working days. And while  the review 
was ongoing,  it assisted Mrs H with queries about  Ms account statements.
As Barclays didnt complete its review of Mr and Mrs Hs accounts within  ten working days,  
the block on Ms account lasted longer  than advised and was only removed on the 12th 
working day. I dont  think the delay was particularly excessive or unreasonable,  although I 
can see that the bank gave Mrs H repeated assurances about the timeframe which it proved 
unable to honour. Barclays has accepted that this will have caused some avoidable 
inconvenience to M, and agreed to pay it £250  compensation. As Mr and Mrs H havent 
pointed to any other costs  or losses that they want me to take into account, Ive not seen 
reason to direct anything  further.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay M compensation of 
£250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7254395