K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2008. Mr W says Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr W says that he thought he had to take out the PPI or he wouldnt  get the loan. I 
wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said,  and Mr W hasnt said much 
about how he was led to think this. So I have to base my decision on the information I do 
have. Nationwide  has provided a copy of Mr Ws loan application  I can see on this that 
PPI is set out as a separate,  optional product, and Mr W has signed to say that he 
wanted to take it out. This is separate  to his signature for the loan.  So taking everything 
in to account, I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said  including what hes said about being  self-
employed and also that he tried to cancel the policy about six months after taking out he 
loan. 
Ref: DRN72491812But having  looked at the terms of the policy, I can see that Mr W being self-employed  
wouldnt have made it any more difficult for him to make a claim than for an employed 
person. And Nationwide has no record  of Mr W contacting them to cancel the policy  when he 
says he did  but has confirmed that it acted on a written instruction in 2013 to cancel the 
policy. So these points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr W any extra  interest 
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr W the extra he paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr W paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide should also pay Mr W 8%* simple  
interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7249181