K821x#15complaint
Mrs O has complained about action taken by HSBC UK Bank  Plc in connection with her 
credit card and overdraft. In particular  she says it mis-sold her a personal  loan to repay the 
balance on her credit card. 
background
Mrs O used to have  an HSBC credit card account.  She says she contacted HSBC in August  
2017 to ask for a replacement card but she was told her card had been closed in February 
2017. This was incorrect. The card had been  suspended but the account was still open and 
had an outstanding balance. Mrs O took out a personal loan with HSBC for £6,670 which 
she mainly used to repay the credit card balance.
Mrs O says she was told by HSBC she could keep her overdraft after she took out the loan. 
But when she applied for an increased  overdraft  in September 2017 her application  was 
refused. She complained to HSBC about  this.
HSBC accepted it had given Mrs O some  incorrect information  about whether she could 
keep the overdraft and it paid her £50 compensation.  Mrs O wasnt happy with HSBCs 
response and referred her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He didnt think  the personal 
loan had been mis-sold  because it had put Mrs O in a better  financial position.  But he didnt 
think £50 was enough to compensate her for the incorrect  information  shed  been  given. He 
recommended HSBC should  pay her another £150.
Mrs O didnt accept our investigators recommendation. In particular she says HSBCs action 
caused her to have  mental health issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the sale of the personal  loan to Mrs O. Before she took out the loan 
she was paying  interest  on her credit card at 17.9%.  The minimum monthly payments she 
had to make  were around £150. The interest  rate on the loan was 9.9%  and the monthly 
payments were £195.14. Although the monthly payments on the loan were  higher than the 
minimum payments on the credit  card they enabled  Mrs O to repay the loan in 40 months.
Mrs O says she was told the interest rate on the loan would  be 3.3%. It appears that HSBC 
was advertising loans at that rate when Mrs O applied for hers. But I think  it was made clear 
to Mrs O that she might not qualify  for a loan at the lower rate. The loan documentation 
shows the interest rate was 9.9%. Im satisfied Mrs O knew the interest rate shed be 
charged and the monthly payments shed have to make when she agreed to take out the 
loan.
In all the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for HSBC  to let Mrs O take out the loan. 
The interest rate was lower than the rate being charged on her credit card and she would 
Ref: DRN78513442repay her indebtedness on the loan much earlier than if shed made the minimum payments 
on her credit  card. The loan was clearly intended  as a replacement  for Mrs Os credit card 
and overdraft. I dont  think it was reasonable for her to expect she could continue to have an 
overdraft as well as the loan.
Its clear the information HSBC gave Mrs O wasnt always correct  and its service  was at 
times below the standard she was entitled  to expect.  It still hasnt provided an explanation 
why Mrs Os credit card was suspended in February  2017.  Im satisfied HSBCs errors  
caused Mrs O unnecessary trouble upset but Im not persuaded they caused  her any 
financial loss. I dont  think £50 is enough  to compensate  Mrs O for the trouble and upset and 
I agree  that HSBC  should pay her an additional  sum of £150.
Ive considered Mrs Os comments about  the effect HSBCs actions has had on her mental 
health. Ive seen her GPs records. She suffers  from anxiety and depression  and there are 
references in her medical history to her being worried about her debts. This is 
understandable but her financial situation  is one of a number of factors  that have been  noted 
by Mrs Os GP in connection  with her anxiety. Im not persuaded Ive seen any evidence  that 
would enable me to reasonably conclude that HSBC caused or contributed to Mrs Os health 
problems to an extent  that would justify  increased compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc to pay Mrs O £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7851344