K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP)  Mr and Mrs B bought  
alongside a mortgage in 2001. TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  
Cover (which is a form of mortgage  payment protection insurance), Life Cover, and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr and Mrs B are only complaining about the mortgage payment protection insurance cover 
(MPPI), so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI element of the package  is this decision. 
The MPPI covered  Mr B for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has sent us the part of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application which related to 
TMPP. Mr and Mrs B have signed  to confirm  that they wanted to take out the cover. Ive 
also seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows it asked Mr B questions  to 
check he was eligible for the policy. I think this suggests that a discussion took place 
about MPPI.  
Mr and Mrs B have  said they were pressured into taking out the MPPI. As Halifax 
recommended the MPPI, I think its possible the adviser encouraged  Mr and Mrs B to 
take out the policy  but I dont think this is the same  as telling them  they had to take it. 
And based on what I know about how Halifax generally sold policies  like this at the time I 
think its more likely  Halifax would have made it clear during any discussion that the 
MPPI was optional.  
So with what  Ive seen  I think its more likely Halifax  made it clear that Mr and Mrs B had 
a choice about taking the MPPI and they chose to take it out to cover Mr B, knowing they 
didnt have to.
Halifax recommended  the MPPI to Mr B  as the sole policy holder  so it had to check 
that it was right for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time,  I 
think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the MPPI  cover and he seems  to have  had a need  for the cover.  Mr B has told us he 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay, and only had limited other means  of meeting his 
repayments if hed lost his job or been too ill to work. So given that the mortgage was a 
significant financial commitment secured against their home, I think the MPPI could have 
provided Mr and Mrs B with a useful  benefit  as it could have helped cover their 
repayments for up to 24 months  if Mr B had lost his job or been too ill to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
Ref: DRN79672722type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs B now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7967272