K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is that when she invested her pension on advice from Portafina  LLP, she 
understood that she would be able to take the balance of this money out on her 60th 
birthday. However,  this has been tied up in illiquid funds and she has been told that she was 
not able to take the money out until it matures in 2019. She now questions the suitability of 
the advice, especially as she has little understanding of pension  funds.
background
Mrs D contacted Portafina as she was interested  in taking the tax-free cash sum from her 
pension benefits.
Portafina recorded Mrs Ds personal  and financial situation. In summary that was:
She was aged  55 and was employed  full time earning £17,000 pa. Her husband was 
working part-time earning around  £2,600.
Her house was rented  and she had around  £2,000 in TESSAs and Cash  ISAs.
She had an unsecured loan of £12,000  with a finish date of 4 years and car finance 
of £5,000 with a finish date of 3 years. The total monthly payment was £247.
She had a total credit card balance of £1,000  with a total monthly payment of £60.
She had life cover of £700,000 with a monthly  premium  of £35.
She was an active member of her employers Pension Scheme. She could opt-out 
and re-join if it was within  5 years of leaving.
The 25% tax free cash  sum was needed for debt consolidation and that Mrs D 
wishes to specifically  use pension for this purpose.
Client understands that there  would be a loss of guaranteed benefits and that the 
fund would need to grow by 20.35%.
Mrs Ds contract  working as came  to an end on 30 September  2013. She was out of 
work and looking  to go back working in a similar role.
A telephone  note said that Mrs D was due to start a new job and will be earning  about £700 
per month. A recording of the call has been  provided  by Portafina. They explained  that if 
Mrs D transferred out of the scheme she would be able to join the new scheme which  has a 
normal retirement age of 65. Portafina  recommended that she stayed in the scheme. The 
critical yield was too high and it was likely the advice would  be not to transfer. She 
understands this and wants  to take maximum cash and keep the balance as an emergency 
fund invested  in an ISA.
On 20 January 2014, Mrs D signed a SIPP Application the summary  showed the transfer  
value of about £46,392 would be invested in a number  of different funds. The initial adviser 
transfer charge  was 5%, with a 1% a year ongoing  adviser charge.
The transfer form that Mrs D signed on 26 February  2014 showed that her pension  benefits 
were currently worth:  Pension  £1,899.84;  Lump Sum £5,699.52; Survivor Pension  £949.93.  
The benefits  were  index linked.
Portafina sent Mrs D a suitability report.  This explained that her objectives were to repay  
debt. They  recommended that Mrs D left her pension benefits  where  they were.  However,  
upon being treated as an insistent client she had asked for a recommendation about how 
she could utilise her funds. The advice was to transfer her pension  benefits to a SIPP  and to 
join her employers pension scheme.
Ref: DRN74799292The report  set out some other ways to generate cash. Should Mrs D decide to continue 
paying off her debt through  monthly contributions rather than using the tax-free  cash  sum 
from her pension, she will have a total repayment  of £18,589.82 calculated  at a market  
average rate of 10.55%  APR on the debt, with a pension value of £75,176 based  on 5% 
growth at retirement.
If however, she decided to take her tax free lump  sum from her pension  and used this to pay 
off her debt upfront, while  refocusing her debt contributions into her pension; she would have 
total contributions  into her pension of £22,298.19 (this has been grossed  up due to tax relief) 
and a pension  value of £80,877  based on 5% growth at retirement.
By taking  the tax-free cash amount, this would result  in her receiving a higher pension value 
at retirement as it allowed her to redirect her contributions from repaying her debt back into 
her pension and she would receive tax relief.
Mrs D said that she was aware of the benefits that she was giving up and that she wished to 
proceed on this basis. This was despite  Portafinas  advice  that it was extremely unlikely that 
it would  be able to match the required the critical yield of 22.13%.
Mrs D has provided us with details of withdrawals  she has made from the SIPP.  She has 
suffered a loss on the investments. In addition, she had been  contacted  by the tax office,  
informing her that she owed £1,800.00 in unpaid tax. She understood from her conversation  
that she had paid £1,706.00 in tax but this was not the correct amount and the tax office had 
asked her to pay the amount outstanding. 
The adjudicator considered the evidence and thought  that the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary,  he was not satisfied that Mrs D was truly an insistent client. If Mrs D had been  
given suitable  advice that would have been to leave her pension  benefits in her previous 
employers scheme she would have left them there and drawn her benefits  at age 60.
Portafina did not agree with the adjudicator  and said Mrs D might  have struggled to keep up 
with her repayments if she had not taken the tax-free cash sum. She knew  that she was 
being treated  as an insistent client as confirmed in the suitability report. This was also 
mentioned in a telephone conversation with Mrs D before the advice had been given.
Portafina said Mrs D was interested in taking her pension benefits under  the new pension 
freedoms. And that she would have taken those benefits regardless of the transfer Portafina 
arranged. Mrs D confirmed in a call recording sent to us that she wanted to reduce some  
debt.
Portafina did accept  that some  of the illiquid funds were unsuitable and was prepared to 
compensate Mrs D for those.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN74799293Mrs D contacted Portafina as she was interested  in releasing the tax-free  cash  from her 
pension benefits  to repay some debt. Portafina gave advice about transferring her defined 
benefit pension  benefits to a SIPP to release the tax-free cash.
The regulator has set out rules where  a firm provides financial advice. These required the 
adviser to know their client and give suitable advice. In addition,  the rules required an 
adviser to start from the position that a transfer of defined pension benefits  was unsuitable.
In my view, Portafina did not provide suitable  advice. Although they said they would advise 
against it, they proceeded on the basis that Mrs D intended to transfer. I have been left with 
the distinct impression  that the process  was intended to enable Mrs D to transfer her 
pension benefits;  whether  that was right for her or not. 
The advice should have set out what that advice was and why that was suitable. This should 
have included ways  to deal with the debt. Mrs D did not say that she was not able to repay  
the debt but wanted things to be easier. As an observation,  she had £2,000  in a cash  ISA, 
but £1,000 on credit card. There  should  have been  a discussion at least  about this. 
The regulator has now set out guidance about how to treat insistent clients.  That starts  with 
giving suitable  advice. If the client wants to ignore  that advice then the risks have to be 
explained. And then it should be made  clear  that the client is acting against the advice they 
had been given. Although  this guidance was issued after Portafina advised Mrs D it still 
indicates the approach that should  have been taken  following the rules  at the time.
Mrs D did want  to consider repaying  debt.  This was to make her income position  easier  at 
the time.  However,  transferring her pension benefits  was almost certain to make  her income 
position worse at retirement.  She could access those benefits in less than five years.  Mrs D 
should have been clearly  advised not to transfer her pension  benefits. She was not given 
suitable advice  and does not meet the criteria for being an insistent client.
I have also considered what Mrs D would have done if she had been given suitable advice. 
Having done so, I think it is likely that Mrs D would have followed that advice. Although she 
wanted to access  her pension benefits, I dont think the significant  impact this would have on 
her pension benefits was adequately explained.  And the options available to her were not 
discussed. I think it is likely Mrs D would have left her pension benefits  and taken  them at 
the normal retirement age for the scheme  at age 60.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs D, as far as possible, into the position she would now be in if she had 
received suitable  advice.
Portafina must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of this final decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ds acceptance of the decision. 
Ref: DRN74799294Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ds 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional reduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  
For example, if Mrs D would have been able to take a tax-free cash  sum from the 
occupational scheme,  25% of the future  loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been  
taxed according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
But if a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already  been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable  
income only. So it would be appropriate to make  a notional deduction of 20% in full. 
Appropriate allowance has to be made for the tax-free cash sum that Mrs D has received 
together with the income. This should  include  the higher rate tax that she has paid as a 
result of the withdrawals being made.  To be clear, I do not think Mrs D would have  paid any 
higher rate tax on the income and this should  form part of the compensation.
Some of the investments in Mrs Ds SIPP may be illiquid, meaning that they cannot  be sold.  
Portafina should take ownership of any illiquid investment by paying a commercial  value  
acceptable to the pension  provider.  If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment  the actual 
value should be assumed  to be nil for the purpose of calculation.  Portafina may wish to 
require that Mrs D provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the 
investment in the future.  They will need  to pay any costs in relation to this.
should an award be made to cover future SIPP fees?
Had Portafina given  suitable advice, Mrs D would not have the SIPP.  Ideally, the unsuitable 
investments should  be removed  from the SIPP; and Portafina should be able to take 
ownership of the investments. That would enable Mrs D to cancel the SIPP  (should  she wish 
to move and avoid future charges). But there  may be difficulties with transferring the 
ownership. And I cant tell third parties what to do. If the investment ownership cant be 
transferred, I think an award ought to be made for the additional  fees Mrs D will have to pay.
So, if there are illiquid holdings and Portafina is unable to buy them all from the SIPP,  then 
its fair that Portafina  pay Mrs D an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years of SIPP  fees 
(calculated using  the previous years fees). This gives  a reasonable period to arrange  for the 
SIPP to be closed.
Ref: DRN74799295I accept that providing  a lump sum in respect of future fees now, means that Mrs D will have 
the money available to invest or obtain a return.  So possibly the lump  sum should be 
discounted. But I dont  know  how long Mrs D might  have to pay the fees.  And fair 
compensation should mean that Mrs D will not have  to pay any additional fees. But Mrs D 
needs compensating for her losses  now. In my view, awarding  a lump sum for an amount 
equivalent to five years fees strikes  a fair balance.  
distress and inconvenience
I also consider that Portafina should pay Mrs D £250  for the distress and inconvenience  that 
she has suffered as a result of the loss to her pension benefits.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Portafina LLP must  calculate  the loss Mrs D has suffered and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Simple interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% gross a year from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7479929