K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is about  a mortgage they took out with Nationwide Building 
Society in 2007.  Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide should not have lent them  the money. To 
settle the complaint Mr and Mrs H want Nationwide to return all the money theyve paid out 
so far towards the mortgage, reimburse commission paid to the broker and to cancel the 
mortgage.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, in April 2007, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, 
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Nationwide. They have  explained that they had 
wanted to raise funds  to consolidate debt by re-mortgaging  their home, and mentioned  this 
to a financial adviser from whom theyd  taken pension advice. He introduced them  to the 
mortgage broker who advised them to take out the mortgage with Nationwide.  
Mr and Mrs H said on the application  that they thought the property  was worth £300,000 and 
wanted to borrow  £250,000. The purpose of the mortgage was to repay the existing 
mortgage on the property and to consolidate  debts. 
The independent surveyor instructed by Nationwide, however, valued the property at 
£280,000, which meant that Nationwide was only prepared to lend £238,000. Mr and Mrs H 
agreed to this and the mortgage was taken out on a capital  repayment basis over a term of 
20 years.  Until 20 April 2012 the mortgage was on a tracker  rate of 0.34% above Bank of 
England Base Rate or 2.75% plus 0.34% (whichever was the higher). The broker  provided 
accountants certificates as validation of Mr and Mrs Hs income  from both employment  and 
(in Mrs Hs case) occupational pension  and partnership income totalling £58,860 per annum.
The mortgage completed in April 2007. Payments  were, for the most part, maintained  
without difficulty until 2010, when it appears  Mr and Mrs H began  to experience financial 
difficulties. From June 2010 Mr and Mrs H began to receive  Support  for Mortgage Interest 
from the Department for Work & Pensions. 
In 2011 Mr and Mrs H asked to transfer their mortgage onto an interest-only basis. This was 
declined, as Nationwide considered there to be insufficient equity in the property to meet  its 
criteria for an interest-only mortgage  (which  required  at least £150,000 equity and a loan-to-
value ratio of under  66%).
Ref: DRN79973412In March 2012, Mr and Mrs H asked for a term extension on the mortgage (which  was due to 
expire in 2027,  15 years  away). Nationwide declined this. In May 2012  Mr and Mrs H 
complained that the mortgage  had been  mis-sold and that Nationwides  lending was 
irresponsible because  the mortgage was unaffordable.
In August  2012  Nationwide declined a term extension but agreed a three-year interest-only 
concession, to be reviewed at the end of the three  years,  and thereafter,  with Nationwide 
confirming that it would be required to assess Mr and Mrs Hs financial position.
On 19 September  2012 Mr H was made  bankrupt.  His bankruptcy has since been 
discharged.
In October  2015 Nationwide agreed to extend  the interest-only concession to the end of the 
mortgage term but said that the balance would need  to be repaid  in 2027. In April 2016, 
however, Nationwide confirmed the interest-only  concession would run until 2018, and would 
be reviewed every six months.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs H complained about  this, and Nationwide upheld  the complaint,  saying  
that the interest-only concession would end in November 2019.
Unhappy with Nationwides responses, Mr and Mrs H complained  to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service. The crux of their complaint  is that Nationwides decision  to lend to 
them in 2007  was irresponsible, based  on an over-inflated valuation and in breach of its own 
lending criteria. They are also unhappy that Nationwide switched their mortgage  to 
interest-only without proper assessment of what their repayment vehicle would be.
Mr and Mrs H also said that Nationwide had breached its own lending  criteria in 2007  by 
offering them a mortgage which ran until 2027, because Nationwide  doesnt lend past the 
age of 75. They also argued  that Nationwide doesnt  allow  lending  for repayment of business  
borrowing.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She didnt think the lending was irresponsible, or 
that Nationwide had breached its lending criteria when it granted  the mortgage.  She noted  
Nationwides criteria had changed  since 2007. The investigator also explained that the 
valuation had been carried out by an independent  surveyor and that Nationwide was entitled  
to rely on his opinion  of the value of the property. She noted that Mr and Mrs H themselves 
had thought the property  was worth £300,000.
The investigator was also satisfied that Nationwide  had taken  steps to help Mr and Mrs H 
when they were in financial  difficulty by offering them an interest-only  concession, and felt 
this was appropriate in the circumstances. The investigator thought Nationwide  could have 
explained more  clearly why a term extension  wasnt appropriate, but didnt think  this would 
have changed  the outcome.
Mr H (who has dealt  with the complaint throughout)  disagreed, and has made some further 
points. I will summarise the points that are germane to the issues  in the complaint. 
Mr H explained that his main concern is that he considers Nationwide to have acted 
irresponsibly in approving the mortgage in the first place. He says the only remedy  would be 
to cancel the mortgage.
Ref: DRN79973413Mr H provided  an extract  from an article about reckless lending written  in November 2007, 
and argues that Nationwides actions in lending irresponsibly were what contributed  to the 
financial crash  of 2008. 
Mr H also says that the forbearance Nationwide  put in place  an interest-only concession   
has put him and Mrs H in an even  worse position,  as a permanent move  to interest-only is 
unsustainable for them.
Mr H argues that Nationwide failed to carry out due diligence because  it used  a mortgage 
packager and failed to examine any paperwork at all, until Mr and Mrs H raised their 
complaint of mis-selling. Mr H noted that another bank had already declined their request for 
further funding. 
Mr H also continued to query the valuation which he argues bears no resemblance  to 
Nationwides own index  of house  prices from 2007.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above,  Im not required to answer each and every point raised by Mr and Mrs H. 
I have concentrated  on what I consider to be the relevant issues.
First, its important to note that Nationwide didnt provide Mr and Mrs H with any advice 
about this mortgage, or tell them that it was suitable  for them;  that was the role of their 
financial adviser. I appreciate he is no longer in business. Mr and Mrs H should  contact the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme if they want to complain about the advice to take 
out this mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H also say that another  lender  had turned down their request  for a loan to 
consolidate debt.  But this complaint is about Nationwide, so the decision  taken by another  
lender isnt relevant here.
The main  issue in this complaint  is that Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide  shouldnt have 
approved their mortgage application, for several reasons. They say that, although  they are 
unhappy about the decisions Nationwide has taken  after the mortgage completed (in relation 
to refusing a switch  to interest-only and a term extension), those  decisions only serve to 
highlight the main issue in the complaint  which is that the mortgage should never have 
been approved  in the first place.
Mr and Mrs H say the valuation was manipulated. Here I note that an independent surveyor  
valued the property at £20,000 less than Mr and Mrs H had said it was worth. The valuation  
was carried out solely for Nationwides purposes,  not for the benefit of Mr and Mrs H. All that 
Nationwide was required to do was to ensure that the person who carried out the valuation 
was qualified to do so. 
Im satisfied the surveyor was covered by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. As 
such, Nationwide was entitled to rely on his professional opinion about  the valuation  of the 
property. Nationwide  wasnt required to refer to a house price index in order  to verify the 
Ref: DRN79973414valuation. If Mr and Mrs H consider that the valuation was inaccurate, they will need to take 
this up with the valuer, who was not an employee of Nationwide.
Although I accept that Mr and Mrs Hs property  lost value after the financial crash,  this is not 
proof that the valuation in February  2007 was wrong. In early  2007 the property market was 
buoyant. House price  data for Mr and Mrs Hs postcode shows  that the average sale price  of 
a house of the type Mr and Mrs H owned in their postcode in the first quarter of 2007  was 
£321.044 (average price  over nine sales). 
After the financial  crash in 2008, prices fell, to as low as £155,000 in the last quarter of 2008 
(when there  was just one sale). Between April 2009 and March  2010  there  were  eight sales,  
at an average price of £257,775. Im satisfied that the value of Mr and Mrs Hs property fell 
as a result  of market  conditions following  the financial crash of 2008, not as a result  of an 
inaccurate valuation  in February  2007.
Ive taken note of what Mr H has provided   an article  about reckless lending  which  he says 
supports his argument that Nationwide was irresponsible when it approved  the mortgage. 
But my role is to look at individual complaints, not issues around corporate governance or 
fiscal responsibility; those are matters  for the Treasury,  the Bank of England and the 
regulator. So although Ive noted what Mr H has provided, it is not relevant to the individual 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H also argue that, in approving a mortgage in 2007  which  ran past the age of 75, 
Nationwide breached its own lending criteria. Im satisfied that this age limit did not apply in 
2007. Nationwide didnt introduce an upper age limit for mortgage  borrowing until July 2008. 
Given this, Im satisfied Nationwide didnt do anything wrong in issuing a mortgage offer 
which had a term ending  after Mr and Mrs H had passed their 75th birthdays.
But by the time Mr and Mrs H asked for their term to be extended, this policy was in place. 
For that reason,  Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled to decline the term extension,  
notwithstanding that the original mortgage term extended beyond their 75th birthdays. I agree 
with the investigator  that Nationwides communication around this could  have been  clearer.
Mr H also says that Nationwide  breached  its own criteria because it does not allow 
customers to raise  a mortgage to repay  business debts. Im satisfied that this was allowed in 
2007; Nationwides lending criteria  about  borrowing for business purposes changed in 
September 2011 when it introduced a prohibition on this. Given  this, Im satisfied Nationwide 
didnt breach its criteria  in 2007. I appreciate  a Nationwide employee said in 2012  that this 
had never  been  allowed,  but Im satisfied this isnt correct and the employee made a mistake  
in saying that it had always been  prohibited.
The mortgage of £236,000 was approximately four times Mr and Mrs Hs certified joint 
income. This was, I find, within the parameters  of an acceptable multiplier  in 2007 and within 
Nationwides lending  criteria.
Mr H has suggested that a mortgage  packager  underwrote the application  and that 
Nationwide didnt give any consideration to it until a complaint was raised about irresponsible 
lending. This isnt borne out by the available evidence, which  shows that Nationwide was 
dealing with the application   and indeed I note Mr H had direct  contact with the employee 
named on the mortgage offer as the point of contact at Nationwide. 
Ref: DRN79973415But in any event, there is nothing untoward  in the use of mortgage packagers to liaise with 
brokers to ensure all documentation  is in order so that the lender can properly assess the 
application. So although  Ive noted Mr Hs concerns about the involvement  of a packager, 
there is nothing sinister in this. And there is no persuasive evidence  to suggest that a 
mortgage packager rather than Nationwide made the underwriting decision on this case. 
Overall, after taking  careful note of everything Mr and Mrs H and Nationwide  have said about 
what happened when  the mortgage  was approved, Im not persuaded Nationwide  did 
anything wrong. The loan met Nationwides criteria  that were in place at the time. I 
appreciate those criteria  have since changed, but that doesnt  mean  the loan shouldnt have 
been approved  in 2007, when it met Nationwides lending criteria.
It wasnt until some years  after the mortgage completed that Mr and Mrs H asked for it to be 
put onto interest-only. A permanent switch wasnt possible, as this didnt fit Nationwides 
lending criteria. Likewise,  a term extension wasnt possible, as this also didnt  fit 
Nationwides lending  criteria.
But Mr and Mrs H had fallen into financial difficult and Nationwide  looked at what  it could do 
to help, in line with its regulatory obligations.  The Mortgages and Home  Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (known as MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what  lenders are required to 
do to help borrowers in arrears. 
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks to be short-term and capable  of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways  to help, such transferring  a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
Several interest-only  concessions have been  agreed by Nationwide  since 2011.  Im satisfied 
that this is reasonable, given that Mr and Mrs Hs income is insufficient to support capital and 
interest repayments. Mr H argues that this has made their position  worse, because they 
wont be in a position to repay the capital at the end of the mortgage term in 2027.  But Im 
satisfied that if these concessions hadnt been  agreed and the mortgage  had stayed on a 
capital repayment  basis, Mr and Mrs Hs arrears  would have risen rapidly and that this may 
well have resulted  in repossession action.
By agreeing to interest-only concessions, Im satisfied  Nationwide  has done  what  it can to 
assist Mr and Mrs H, within the parameters laid down by MCOB. I do understand Mr and 
Mrs Hs concerns about repayment of the debt at the end of the term. But Im not persuaded 
that Nationwides actions were unfair or unreasonable, given that Mr and Mrs Hs options 
were very limited,  given  what  appears  to be a permanent reduction in their income.
The mortgage still has more than six years left to run, and in the circumstances, I think 
Mr and Mrs H might benefit  from talking to an independent financial adviser. They  can find 
details of financial advisers from the Financial Conduct Authoritys website. Alternatively, 
they might  want to speak  to one of the specialist debt advice services such  as Citizens 
Advice, StepChange or Shelter.  We can provide contact  details  for those agencies, 
if Mr and Mrs H would  like us to.
Ref: DRN79973416my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2021.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997341