K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy Abacus Management  Limited hasnt kept her updated about her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim.  And she cant get them to answer her calls.
background
In 2018, Mrs G said she was contacted  by Abacus about making a PPI claim.  And she said, 
in June/July 2018 shed  filled in all the forms Abacus had sent to her. She said she rang 
Abacus and confirmed  it had received  the forms.
She said she told Abacus  shed changed her name a few times and it told her that this might 
make the claim a bit more  difficult. Mrs G said she was given a telephone number for her to 
be able to contact  her claim handler. Since  then she said she hasnt heard anything  from 
Abacus.
Mrs G said she has phoned Abacus on a number of occasions, using both of the telephone 
numbers she had, the Freephone number  and the claim handlers  number.  But only ever 
gets the option to leave a voicemail message. She said she has left messages but no one 
has got back to her.
She contacted us in April 2019 to see what she should do. Mrs G said she was dyslexic so 
she wasnt able to write to Abacus to complain. We started the complaint process for her. 
Abacus hasnt sent Mrs G any response to her complaint. So, Mrs G brought her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator checked the contact details  for Abacus  to make sure they were  still valid 
and did speak to Abacus  on a couple of occasions,  being giving the assurance  his message 
would be passed  on. But despite several attempts Abacus havent responded to our 
requests for information.
Our investigator said Abacus hadnt  updated Mrs G about her PPI claim and so it hadnt 
treated her fairly. As this has caused Mrs G trouble and upset he said Abacus should  pay 
her £150.
Abacus hasnt responded so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Abacus has been  asked  to provide evidence for me to consider but to date this hasnt been 
sent. So, Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
In 2018, Mrs G said she filled in the forms Abacus had sent to her. She said she had sent all 
of the paperwork  back to Abacus for it to pursue a PPI claim on her behalf. Mrs G also said 
Abacus had confirmed  receipt of her completed  forms. And I have no reason to doubt this. 
From the date of receiving  her forms for the PPI claim, I would have expected Abacus to 
keep Mrs G updated about her claim. Whether this was the prospect of a successful claim, 
or that her claim wouldnt be successful.  To date Abacus hasnt let Mrs G know  one way or 
the other.
Ref: DRN74902382From the limited communication Mrs G had with Abacus its clear  there  might  have been  an 
issue about her different  names. But again  Id have expected Abacus to have kept Mrs G 
updated about this.
Since her initial contact with Abacus there has been  silence, despite  Mrs G trying to find out 
what was happening and leaving voicemail messages Abacus hasnt responded to her.
I cant know whether Mrs G would have had a successful PPI claim or not. And Abacus 
hasnt sent any information to show either way. So by not responding to Mrs G I dont think  
Abacus has kept her up to date on the progress of her claim or followed her instructions. And 
this has caused  trouble  and upset to Mrs G, as she didnt know what  was happening. And 
still doesnt know whether she had a PPI claim made or not.
So I agree with our investigator that Abacus hasnt  treated Mrs G fairly and should pay her 
£150 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint and ask Abacus Management Limited to pay Mrs G £150 for 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7490238