K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that he received another customers statements from Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited and that his statements were sent to another customer. 
background 
In September  2015 Mr B was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement with VWFS.
In May 2018  Mr B contacted VWFS and asked for a statement  of account to be sent to him 
by email.
When Mr B received the statement  of account he noticed that it related to someone else.
Mr B complained to VWFS. It said that there was another  customer  with the same name and 
that the accounts had been merged in error.
Mr B wasnt  happy with VWFSs response.  He says hes lost confidence in the business and 
wants his agreement cancelled and all payments returned. He also wants compensation for 
the data breach. 
During the investigation by this service, VWFS  made an offer to settle the complaint. Our 
investigator felt that the offer was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that VWFS  had made  an error  by merging his account with 
someone elses and that it had taken VWFS three attempts  to rectify the issue. Mr B said 
that the error  had delayed his mortgage  application.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine whether VWFS  has made  an error  and to look at the impact  that any 
error has had on Mr B. It isnt my role to determine whether VWFS has breached any data 
protection regulations. This is something  which only the Information  Commissioners Office  
can determine. 
VWFS has acknowledged  that it made an error.  It has explained how it records  information 
about customers who hold finance  agreements and the system  in place for linking a 
customer who holds more  than one account.  In Mr Bs case, VWFS has explained  that 
human error led to him being linked to another customer with the same name. VWFS says 
that the error  was only identified when Mr B received the wrong statement and complained. 
Although VWFS took corrective action, I can see that further human errors occurred which 
meant that Mr Bs statement was sent to the other customers  address.
Theres no dispute that VWFS made errors. Ive looked at the impact  of the error on Mr B 
and in doing so Ive taken  into account his concerns that the disclosure of his personal  data 
could have had adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN76047692Ive looked at the documents which were sent to the other customer in error.  These  dont 
contain any personal information  relating to Mr B. They state the agreement number, the 
registration and make of the car and transactions on the account.  Ive taken account of the 
fact that the information was disclosed to a single person only and didnt include any high 
risk or sensitive date (such as identity date,  financial  data or health  data).  On balance, Im of 
the view that the risk of identity theft or fraud, physical harm or damage  to reputation was 
negligible.
However, I also appreciate that Mr B has been caused a significant deal of distress  as a 
result of the error. Ive taken account of his concerns about identity fraud (although  Ive 
explained above why I think there was little or no risk of this). Ive also noted  Mr Bs 
comments that his mortgage application  was delayed. I can see that VWFS took quite a long 
time to resolve the issue and I think that it could have handled things better by keeping  Mr B 
informed.
I understand that Mr B wants to return the van and receive a refund of his payments. I dont 
think this is an appropriate remedy because Mr B has had use of the van for over three 
years with no issues. I haven seen any information  to suggest that a rejection is warranted.  
Instead, I think VWFS should pay compensation to Mr B for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by the error.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should pay compensation of £750  to Mr B for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7604769