K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc forced them  to close their 
joint personal account.
background
Mr and Mrs G had a joint personal account  and also a business account  with HSBC. In 
response to a query about their business  account they were told in an email  from a branch 
advisor on 10 July 2018  that HSBC records showed  that their joint personal account was to 
be closed. Mr and Mrs G thought they therefore needed to go to another  provider. They 
closed their personal account  on 9 October  2018.
HSBC say they successfully carried out a safeguarding review of Mr and Mrs Gs personal 
account in November 2017 and that they did not intend to close  the joint personal account in 
2018. So Mr and Mrs G closed the account voluntarily. 
Our investigator looked into matters. He explained  that the safeguarding review  of Mr and 
Mrs Gs personal  account in 2017 had taken place satisfactorily. And while  he appreciated 
that they said theyd understood that this account would be closed based on communication 
with their branch  in July 2018, they had not been  sent any correspondence about it, and they 
did not close this account until 9 October 2018.  So he did not uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G do not agree and so their case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I am grateful to Mr and Mrs G for the 
documents theyve  provided on this matter. I appreciate  that their main  concern has been  
their business account but I have considered carefully whether HSBC treated them fairly and 
reasonably in relation to their personal account. Having considered the evidence,  I am 
satisfied that they have  and I shall explain my reasons. While I may not refer to all the points 
made by the parties, I have referred to those I consider  most  relevant to my decision.
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs G got in touch with their branch advisor about their business 
account because  theyd received a notice of closure for it. Issues about their business  
account have  been dealt  with under  a separate complaint. But I can understand how it would 
have been confusing to be told that HSBCs  records said that the notification  of closure 
appeared to be about their joint personal account  rather than the business one.
I note that Mr and Mrs G have said that HSBC  branch staff had helped them as much as 
they could. And I dont  know  why they were  told that their joint personal account  would be 
closed because this was not correct.  The notice of closure theyd received clearly said it was 
for the business  account. A safeguarding review of Mr and Mrs Gs joint personal account  
carried out in 2017 had been concluded satisfactorily. And HSBC  had had no intention of 
closing this account.
Ref: DRN76820272While it looks  like Mr and Mrs G were given  incorrect information, they did not receive any 
letter or notice  of closure about their joint personal account. In particular, no correspondence 
was sent about it in the three month  period between when Mr and Mrs G had been  told the 
account would be closed by branch staff, and when they closed the account themselves. 
While Mr and Mrs G closed their business account towards the end of July 2018 just before 
they went away for a long holiday, their joint personal account remained open for a number 
of months.  Closure was not requested until 9 October 2018,  and Mr and Mrs G did not get in 
touch with HSBC  to ask about their intentions before doing  so. So I dont  think it would be 
fair to say that Mr and Mrs G were  forced  to close their joint personal account.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I wont be asking HSBC to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7682027