K820x#14complaint
Mr H is adamant that Bank of Scotland plc recommended he take out an unsuitable ISA in 
2002 even though it maintains that no advice was provided.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe there was sufficient  evidence  to conclude  that 
BoS had offered any tailored advice  in relation to the ISA which Mr H took out.
Mr Hs representative disagreed, saying:
It is clear that BoS offered more  than mere information. It is hard to believe that Mr H 
sat in a meeting with the advisor, having  never invested before, and there were no 
questions about the product or how it might meet his needs.
It is clear from Mr Hs recollections that he was given more than generic information. 
He simply would  not have chosen to invest in this product on his own accord
There was no signed declaration confirming  this was a non-advised sale and the only 
mention of this issue was after the sale had been made. An ombudsman stated on a 
similar case: I am not persuaded the letter sent  after the sale,  indicating it was not 
advised, is evidence  that it was or that Mr and Mrs W were  aware  that it was
This letter and the point  of sale paperwork also failed  to explain the consequences of 
not getting advice
Mr H was under the impression that hed received  professional investment advice 
and the product was his best option;  thats why he kept it despite a subsequent  letter  
saying no advice  had been given 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  a complaint I needed to be satisfied that it is more  likely than not that 
business did something wrong.  In this case, I would firstly need to conclude that BoS did 
advise Mr H to take out this product.  I simply  do not feel there is sufficient, persuasive 
evidence to reach such a conclusion.
I do not dispute Mr Hs recollections, even though  these date back to events  which took 
place 17 years but equally I dont this evidence,  on its own, is enough to fairly  or safely 
conclude that he was advised  to take out this product.
While his representative claims  Mr H had never invested before, it also says  in the same  
letter  that he had been wrongly advised  to make a risk-based investment the previous 
year, and that he has recently received compensation for this.
This unavoidably casts doubt on its evidence. It also suggests that Mr H, having previously 
been recommended  to invest in a risk-based ISA, might have done so on this occasion  
Ref: DRN75937322without further  advice. From the limited evidence available, I simply cannot be certain about 
this issue either way.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7593732