Complaint
Mr M complains that he was pressured into acquiring a car through  a hire purchase 
agreement (HPA) with RCI Financial  Services Limited (the business).  He complains that the 
HPA doesnt contain the correct figures,  he wasnt given  sufficient time to understand the 
agreement before he entered into it, and that he was auto enrolled  into the servicing 
package. 
Background
Mr M entered into a HPA with the business  in May 2018 to acquire a car. He says that he 
was invited to visit the dealer and when  he was there he explained that he had experienced 
family bereavements and so the dealership were aware he was vulnerable.  Mr M says he 
wanted to acquire the car using cash but was pressured into entering into the HPA in order 
to get other benefits. He says he wasnt given  adequate time to understand the HPA as he 
had to consider  this in the showroom  and felt pressured into signing. He says he was told to 
wait three  months  before repaying the HPA in order to benefit  from the additional benefits 
offered.
Mr M says he part exchanged his previous car for £5,500  and paid a further  £500  deposit but 
his deposit was shown on his HPA as £5,198. The car sale price  was £12,995 leaving 
£6,995. However  he says he then discovered he would owe over £15,000 under the HPA. 
He says he wasnt made aware of the balloon  payment and that he was automatically  signed 
up for a servicing plan when this should have been  free. 
Mr M says he didnt  sign the sales process  document or the bank direct debit so he 
challenged the legality of his agreement.
Mr M raised  complaints against both the dealership and the business  but says only his 
complaint about  the business  has been considered. He also feels the business hasnt helped 
him in regard to his complaint and has deliberately  delayed the process.
The business says that Mr M settled  his HPA in October 2018. It says that because  Mr M 
acquired the car through  a HPA he benefitted  from two years servicing and warranty, 
roadside assistance cover and lost keys cover plus a £400 dealer contribution. It says Mr M 
also received cashback  of £1,202.  It says Mr M had confirmed he had the opportunity  to 
read the documents in the showroom and that had he not been happy after entering into the 
HPA he had 14 days to withdraw from it. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He didnt think that the dealership had done 
anything wrong  by offering a HPA or by suggesting  this could be ended  after three months. 
He said that he was unable to say that Mr M hadnt been given the information he needed to 
make an informed decision about entering  into the HPA and that he thought the credit  
number included in the agreement was correct.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said in summary  his complaint wasnt about 
the suitability of the HPA but that he wasnt told about his automatic enrolment into the 
dealers servicing scheme or the monthly cost of this. He reiterated  that he was vulnerable at 
the time the finance was offered and that the amounts calculated in this werent correct.
Mr M says that as soon  as he could pay off the finance agreement  he did so but this was 
delayed by the business resulting in further interest  being added. He also said that because 
Ref: DRN79297482he was misled into the agreement he then had to pay an extra  insurance cost against the 
loss of value of the car.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised a number of complaints in regard to the process  of acquiring a car through 
a HPA and also how his complaint has been dealt with. 
Mr M initially raised two complaints, one against  the dealership and one against  the 
business. Under the relevant law and regulations, the business can be held liable if the 
dealership either misrepresented the HPA to him or there  was a breach of contract. When I 
decide what is fair and reasonable I take relevant law and regulations  into account. This 
complaint is against  the business  and so I have considered all the issues  for which  it can be 
held responsible. 
acquiring the car through  a HPA
Mr M says that he visited the dealership and when  he was considering  acquiring a car he 
had intended to pay for it in cash. However  he was persuaded to enter  into a HPA.  I 
understand this all took place at a very difficult time for Mr M and that dealing with this 
complaint has caused him stress and upset at a time when he has been dealing  with family 
bereavements.
In order to uphold  this part of Mr Ms complaint I would need  to be satisfied that Mr M was 
not given the information  he needed to make  an informed decision or that the HPA was 
misrepresented to him. There  is no suggestion that the car itself wasnt of satisfactory quality  
and so I have  focussed on the information Mr M received  when the HPA was offered and 
whether this was misleading. 
I understand that Mr M initially intended  to acquire a car using cash. This was an option to 
him and while  I appreciate  he says he felt pressured into the HPA he always had the option 
to pay in cash. It is not unreasonable that when someone is looking to acquire  a car that the 
different payment options are presented  and it is also not unusual  that acquiring a car 
through finance agreements can result in certain benefits. In this case Mr M was told that he 
would receive extra  benefits such as additional servicing for free.
Based on the sales invoice  I can see this lists the two years  free servicing, two years  free 
warranty and a dealer  contribution of £400 and so I accept that Mr M did get the additional 
benefits he had expected.  Mr M says that he has had to pay separately for the servicing  
agreement but I havent seen any evidence  of this.
Mr M has said that he needed to pay a higher  cost for insurance  due to the total amount due 
under the HPA. I understand his comment but the evidence shows he was provided  with the 
extended warranty up to the value of the car. The value  of the car was clearly  set out and the 
higher cost Mr M has referred to is the amount  including the cost of the finance provided. 
The HPA incurred an interest charge as would be expected and was clearly set out. This 
didnt alter the value  of the car.
Ref: DRN79297483Mr M signed the customer written summary  document which  says that he has been given 
information, among  other things, about his payments and right to withdraw and what  
happens in an early termination.  I understand  Mr Ms comments  that he wasnt  able to fully 
review the HPA in the showroom but as he signed  the customer  summary document  saying 
he understood various aspects of the finance  and he signed the HPA which clearly set out 
his payments, including the balloon payment, and other financial details. I dont  find I can say 
Mr M wasnt provided with the information  he needed to make  an informed decision.
Had Mr M been concerned that he had been rushed  into the signing the HPA he had the 
right to withdraw from this within the first 14 days. He didnt do this. I also note Mr Ms 
comments about not signing the agreement  documents and the direct debit. I have seen a 
copy of the signed documents but I appreciate Mr Ms comments  that the signatures were  
forged. I am not an expert in handwriting and cant say for certain what has happened here. 
But Mr M was aware that he had entered into an agreement and would be making payments 
for this and so had he not signed the relevant documents I would have expected him to have 
raised this at the time.  So while I cant say what happened I dont find I have enough to say 
that the business did anything wrong  by setting up the finance. 
Overall, I do not find it unreasonable that Mr M was offered the option of acquiring the car 
through a HPA and I think, on balance,  he was provided with the information he needed 
before he agreed  to this.
amounts included in the HPA
Mr M has noted a number of concerns regarding the amounts recorded in the HPA. The 
HPA records the cost of the car as £12,995.  This is the price  listed  in the sales  invoice. The 
advance payments are then recorded as £5,198. Mr M has raised concern about this amount 
saying that he received  £5,500 part exchange for a previous vehicle and paid £500 giving a 
total deposit of £6,000. The numbers quoted by Mr M are confirmed in the sales invoice. The 
difference between  the £6,000 deposit  and the amount recorded in the HPA has been  
explained as a £400 dealer contribution plus a £1,202 cashback amount. Mr M has said he 
received the £1,202. Deducting the £1,202 from the deposit to reflect  the cashback and 
adding the dealers £400 contribution brings  the net amount to £5,198.
The total amount  of credit recorded  in the HPA is the sales price less the deposit giving 
£7,797. The interest charges are then set out as £2,815.25 giving a total of £10,612.25.  The 
total amount payable  is the total credit,  plus interest  charges, plus the deposit amount paid 
which results in the £15,810.25 number recorded  in the HPA. 
Based on the information I have seen I dont  find anything to suggest the amounts  recorded 
in the HPA are incorrect.
repaying the agreement
Mr M says that he was told he would need  to remain in the HPA for a certain  period of time 
before he repaid it in order to benefit from the additional benefits. I cannot say what was 
explained to Mr M about when  he could  repay  his agreement, but he did have the option  to 
settle the agreement early  in line with the terms and conditions.  I have  looked  at the 
business system  notes and can see that Mr M asked about repaying  his agreement early  on 
25 August 2018  and that a settlement quote was sent to him. He then raised his complaint 
and investigation  into this began. 
Ref: DRN79297484I understand why Mr M is upset that his complaint  wasnt  fully addressed  before the initial 
settlement quote  had expired but based  on the information I have seen; the business  was 
investigating his complaint at this time and I cant say it caused any unnecessary  delay. 
Mr M had the option to settle his agreement  before  the expiry of the initial settlement quote, 
but I can understand why he was waiting to see a response to his complaint. Another 
settlement quote  was then sent to him on 3 October  and he settled the HPA on 5 October. 
Overall, I dont  find I can say the business  did anything  wrong  in regard to this process. For 
the duration on the HPA I have nothing to say that Mr M didnt have the benefits  he was 
promised at the point of acquisition.
data protection  issues
Mr M has noted a number of data protection concerns both in regard to the use of his data 
by this service, and the other parties to his complaint. It is not our role to decide if there has 
been a breach of data protection laws, this is for the Information Commissioners  Office to 
consider. We can consider the impact  a breach has had. While I understand that Mr M has 
been upset by how his data has been handled in this case,  I dont find I have evidence of an 
impact arising from a breach for which I could suggest a payment should be made.
summary
Overall, I do not find I can say that the business  has done anything  wrong in offering the 
HPA and then settling this early  in line with Mr Ms request and payment.
While I understand that this whole process has been  very upsetting  for Mr M and that he is 
having to deal with this at a time when he is vulnerable due to the double  bereavement  he 
has suffered, I do not find that I can say in this case that the business has done  anything 
wrong. So, while I appreciate that my decision will be upsetting for Mr M I do not find I can 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7929748