K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that the service she received  from Revolut Ltd (Revolut) when she opened 
an account fell short of that which she expected to receive. She feels  Revolut have not been  
clear regarding the charges she would incur from both Revolut and third parties, when using 
her card. And she complains that when she set up her virtual  card she was charged when in 
fact she ought  not to have been.  
background
Mrs L opened an account with Revolut by depositing £10 from her Tesco credit card 
account. She then tried to set up a free virtual  card using a promotional  referral code, but 
something went wrong and she was charged  a fee of £4.99. Mrs L then spoke by online chat 
to Revolut who explained that as soon as Mrs L ordered the card they would refund the fee, 
which they did. 
A few days  later Mrs L noticed  that she had been charged a fee by her credit card provider 
for the £10 deposit, which she did not think was fair, and which she raised with Revolut.
Revolut acknowledged  that Mrs L had incurred  charges but pointed out the charges  were 
outside of their control as they had been applied by her credit card company and not them. 
They also drew her attention to the terms and conditions of the account; in particular 
paragraph 24.14 which they said showed Mrs L had agreed that Revolut were not to be 
responsible for third party  charges.
Mrs L was unhappy  with Revoluts response  and so an investigator  from this service looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think Revolut had done  anything wrong. Mrs L disagreed  with 
that view and so the matter has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat the investigators summary of the background to this complaint because it is 
accurate and full and I want  to avoid repetition. But, if it appears that I havent mentioned 
something it is not because I have  ignored  it, but because  I dont  think its relevant to the 
issues I have to decide.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence in front of me. Where such evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I 
understand that Mrs L feels Revolut are hiding behind their terms and conditions  but it is 
those terms and conditions which govern  the relationship between  her and Revolut. They  
are there for reason  and in order to deal with complaints like this. What  I need to decide  is 
whether Revolut acted  fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mrs L. 
In this case the agreement is clear  about Revoluts own charges. Mrs L doesnt  complain 
about those, rather  that she feels Revolut should  have made it clearer that credit  card 
Ref: DRN74683642providers may impose charges when used  in the way she did. But in my view that is a matter  
which needs to be dealt with between the credit card provider and their customer, not 
Revolut. I have not seen the credit card providers  terms  and conditions since  it is not 
relevant to this complaint, since it is not about  the credit card provider. But those terms and 
conditions will almost certainly  deal with their own charges  and when and in what 
circumstances, they can be imposed.
Additionally I have noted that the terms and conditions  which  govern Revolut clearly set out 
that they are not responsible for any charges a third party may impose.
I know Mrs L feels Revolut should have issued warnings, similar to those given by other 
providers, and to the effect  that third parties  may impose charges. But I dont see that as a 
necessary requirement  since the third party provider will have covered such charges in their 
own terms and conditions.
So, in my view Revolut  have acted in accordance with the terms of the agreement,  and as 
such they have  acted fairly. I accept that something went wrong  on opening the account  but 
Revolut resolved that very quickly by refunding the fee charged. They also made an offer of 
one months premium membership for free. I appreciate that Mrs L does not think that to be 
sufficient, but in my view it is a reasonable resolution in the circumstances of the complaint. 
The failure in service level here was in my view minor.
I know Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for the same reasons. Im not satisfied that Revolut have  treated  
Mrs L unfairly, and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7468364