K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a packaged bank account called a Gold Added  Value 
Account (GAVA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland). 
background
Mr M took out a GAVA in January 2012  which incurred a monthly fee of £12.95. 
Mr M says he chose  to take out the GAVA because  Bank of Scotland told him it was the only 
way he could keep  his overdraft facility and he says the GAVA  wasnt suitable for him.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the GAVA. Mr M disagrees so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mr M was aware the GAVA  was optional  and 
whether he was given  a clear choice in out taking the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
Mr M had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft of £300 plus with Bank of 
Scotland. And I think  its more likely than not that he knew that fee free accounts with 
overdrafts were widely available with Bank  of Scotland and other banks and financial 
institutions. 
Mr M says he was interested in continuing  his overdraft  facility. And I think Bank of Scotland 
discussed with him that the GAVA provided a fee and interest free £100  arranged overdraft 
and better  interest  rates for overdrafts over £100  and this appealed to him.
So I think Mr M was aware he had a choice  and chose to take out the GAVA.
Bank of Scotland advised Mr M to take out the GAVA.  So, Bank of Scotland  needed to 
provide Mr M with sufficient information about  the GAVA to make an informed choice. And in 
recommending the GAVA,  it also needed to take adequate  steps to ensure that the GAVA 
was a reasonable fit for Mr Ms circumstances.
The GAVA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel  insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and sentinel card protection.  And it offered the 
better overdraft facilities. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or what information it gave Mr M about the GAVA 
but I think it wouldve  been of interest  to him in his circumstances. Mr M travelled abroad  
regularly so couldve used  the travel insurance  and the AA breakdown service covered  Mr M 
whether he was driving a vehicle or simply a passenger. Bank of Scotland has provided 
evidence that he had a mobile  phone and registered it for the insurance cover  after taking 
Ref: DRN70972402out the GAVA. And he used and benefitted from the overdraft facility.  And although I note 
Mr M says he doesnt think he couldve used the travel insurance, I can see nothing in his 
circumstances that would have stopped him using any of the benefits on offer.
So in my view the GAVA  was suitable for Mr M. And there was no information that he didnt 
receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put him off taking it out. So I dont think  
Mr M lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done wrong when it sold 
him the GAVA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097240