K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1995, in connection with a 
joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs H if they couldnt  work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Hs needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs H the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs H are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs H say they were put under pressure to take out the PPI, and that Lloyds didnt 
give them  a proper  choice. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs H and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events  took place over twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs H have told me, I havent  been able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN79685862Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mr and Mrs H werent  eligible for the policy given their circumstances  and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
-Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need  the PPI as they would have received employer 
benefits if they couldnt work  due to sickness or accident. Theyve  also told me they 
had some savings and shares  they couldve sold. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to Mr and Mrs Hs occupational benefits,  and wouldve meant Mr and Mrs H 
could use those  benefits, together with their savings  and shares, to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs H would  have had some  use for the policy despite 
their existing  arrangements.
-Mr and Mrs H werent affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  
benefits, such as those  affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I think  
it unlikely better advice or information about the policys  exclusions  and limitations 
wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Hs decision to have  it.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs H before  they agreed to 
buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. 
And I havent seen  anything to suggest that the policy wasnt  affordable. So I think  it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. And as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made  a different decision if better 
information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7968586