K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that a fixed sum loan agreement with BMW  Financial Services  (GB) Limited,  
under which he was to pay the negative  equity on a car that he returned  because it was of 
unsatisfactory quality,  was mis-sold  to him.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and have been  set out by the 
adjudicator so I wont repeat them again  here. Instead Ill focus on giving  the reasons for my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Mr F entered into a hire purchase  agreement  with BMW Financial Services  in March  
2017 for a car to be supplied  to him  but there were a number of issues with that car 
so he entered  into a hire purchase agreement  for a replacement  car in July 2017;
there were issues with the replacement car which were repaired under warranty  and 
Mr F then took it back to the dealer and entered into a hire purchase  agreement for 
another replacement  car in February 2018   and he also entered  into a loan 
agreement with BMW Financial Services to pay the negative equity  on the second 
car of £1,400.17  by thirty six monthly payments of £45.43;
Mr F didnt contact  BMW Financial  Services about the issues with the second car and 
freely entered into the agreements  but I consider it to be more  likely than not, on 
the basis of the repairs that were needed  to the second car, that it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F;
I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr F to have been able to 
reject that car  and if hed done  so he wouldnt have incurred any negative equity;
Ive seen no evidence  to show that the dealer properly  explained  to Mr F the options 
that were available to him for the second car  including  rejection of it  and instead 
arranged for him to be supplied  with another replacement car and to enter  into the 
loan agreement; and
I consider that the loan agreement was mis-sold  to Mr F and that it would be fair and 
reasonable for BMW  Financial Services to end that agreement, refund Mr Fs 
payments with interest and to remove that agreement from his credit  file.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I order  BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
1.End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mr F.
2.Refund to Mr F all of the payments that hes made under that agreement.
Ref: DRN739013323.Pay interest on those  amounts  at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of each  
payment to the date of settlement.
4.Remove the loan agreement  from Mr Fs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to above. BMW Financial Services must  give Mr F a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390133