K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited (trading as 
Advantage Home  Loans) took too long to return money wrongly transferred to it. They ask 
for compensation.
background
Mrs F and her siblings had inherited  a property. In November 2017 Mr and Mrs F took out a 
mortgage with a third party lender. The proceeds were to be used to repay Mr and Mrs Fs 
existing mortgage  with Advantage and to buy Mrs Fs siblings  share of the inherited 
property. They intended to rent out the property.
Mr and Mrs Fs solicitor  repaid their mortgage with Advantage. The solicitor then accidentally  
sent the surplus money to Advantage instead  of to Mr and Mrs F. Mrs F says Advantage 
took too long to return the money.  This caused delays to the transfer of the title to the 
inherited property. She says they lost the tenant  who wanted to rent the property from 
December 2017.  Mr and Mrs F say they didnt find another tenant until February 2018. They  
want Advantage to pay compensation  for the lost rent.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Advantage accepts  it took too long to return the money and offered £250  compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience caused.  
Mrs F provided  a letter from a lettings agent saying a tenant  was interested  in renting the 
property. But the tenant didnt sign an agreement and no tenancy was guaranteed. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree. Mrs F said she didnt receive the money  for 20 days. She said 
she should have  received  it on 17 November  and it arrived in her account on 6 December 
2017. Mrs F said she had to pay interest to her mortgage lender on money  that she didnt 
have. And she had to take time off work  to sort the matter out and the stress meant she 
wasnt fit to work. 
Mrs F said the letter from the lettings agent was evidence that the tenant  wanted the 
property and the rent they would  have paid. She couldnt commit to the tenancy until she 
knew the changes  to the property title would be completed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs Fs new mortgage  completed on 17 November 2017. Part of the funds  were  
used to repay their existing mortgage  with Advantage.
Ref: DRN76486482On 21 November the solicitor wrongly  sent the surplus funds to Advantage instead of to 
Mrs F. 
On 24 November 2017, the solicitor  contacted Advantage  about the error and asked for the 
funds to be returned. Both the solicitor and Mrs F contacted Advantage a number of times.
The money was returned to the solicitor and transferred to Mrs F on 6 December 2017. 
did Advantage make an error?
Advantage wasnt responsible for the original error  the money being sent to the wrong 
account. But having received the money  in error, Advantage needed to return it. Advantage 
accepts it should  have returned  Mr and Mrs Fs money more quickly.
Advantage described its process for returning  money in a situation like this. I appreciate  
Mrs F wanted the money returned immediately. But Advantage needed to check what  had 
happened and follow its internal process  to return the money. 
I think, if Advantage had followed its process  without  any errors, its likely the money  would 
have arrived with the solicitor on or about 1 December 2017. The money was returned on 6 
December 2017   three working days later. 
The information Advantage gave  to Mrs F, such as saying the money had been moved out of 
an account, also caused her concern. This was part of the usual process, but Mrs F didnt 
know that. She was worried that Advantage had lost track of the money. 
what compensation would be fair and reasonable?
Advantage offered £250 for Mr and Mrs Fs upset and inconvenience. I think  this is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the error Advantage made, which  meant Mr and Mrs F were 
without their money for a few more  days than necessary. And for the information  it gave  to 
them which caused  confusion  and more upset.
Mrs F says she was without the money for 20 days  from 17 November to 6 December 
2017. But Advantages error wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs F being without the money 
for all  or even most  of this time. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Advantage 
to pay further compensation for the worry this caused. 
I dont think its reasonable to require Advantage to pay compensation for Mrs Fs financial 
loss. As Ive said, I think the money  would have  been returned  to the solicitor on or about 
1 December 2017 if Advantage hadnt made errors. From what Mrs F has said, it seems  
likely this would have  been too late for the tenant that was interested in renting the property 
from 1 December. I cant be certain that this tenant  would have rented the property. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by 
Morgan Stanley Bank International  Limited  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Ref: DRN76486483Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7648648