K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) debited a final 
payment and an option to purchase  fee by mistake and this led her to incur  unexpected 
costs that she wants them  to reimburse.
background
Mrs H took receipt of a new car in March 2014.  She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. The agreement included an optional final payment of 
£14,630 which Mrs H could make  if she wished to own the car at the end of the term and 
after shed paid an option to purchase  fee of £60.
Mrs H called VWFS on 2 March 2018 to arrange  to hand back her car but they didnt  process 
her handback request  and she had to chase  them  again in mid-March when they did process 
the transaction. On 25 March 2018  VWFS debited the option to purchase fee in error but 
they re-credited  this a few days later and on 31 March they debited the final payment  in 
error.
Mrs H then became the legal owner of the car and she complains  that she had to sell it very 
quickly in order to recoup  the money  thatd  been  wrongly debited  from her account. She 
says she had to pay £602.08 as follows:
tyre replacement £367.14
payment of £64.95 to a company Ill call A to advertise her car for sale
a service cost of £169.99 that wouldnt have been necessary 
So she asked VWFS to refund these expenses.
But VWFS didnt agree. They apologised for the mistake and offered Mrs H £100 to 
compensate her for the inconvenience caused.  But they said they wouldnt reimburse the 
advertising costs as it was Mrs Hs choice to sell the car through A. They  also didnt feel that 
they should refund the cost of the tyres as these  were items Mrs H would need to replace 
prior to any sale. But they did say theyd refund the service cost if Mrs H could evidence it.
Mrs H was disappointed  with their response so she referred her complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided her opinion. She thought VWFS should refund the service cost as it 
wouldnt have been required  if the car had been  collected at the end of the agreement and 
she also thought  they should  refund the advertising  cost as Mrs H had to sell the car urgently 
when she unexpectedly became the owner of the vehicle. She thought  VWFSs offer of £100 
compensation was sufficient in the circumstances  and she didnt think  the business should 
reimburse Mrs H for the tyre costs as this expense had been Mrs Hs choice.
VWFS agreed with most  of what the adjudicator  had suggested  but they didnt think they 
should pay for the advertising as Mrs H couldve waited for the car to be collected and sold 
by their agents. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78688752I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Its clear that Mrs H didnt, initially at least; want to take ownership of the vehicle. The final 
payment and option to purchase fee were taken in error and this must have been frustrating 
for her. She wouldve wanted to take action  quickly  to recoup her unexpected outlay and 
given the delay in VWFS arranging collection of the car and the mistake they made when 
they debited two payments from her account, I can understand  that she wouldve wanted to 
sell the car herself,  quickly  and without reliance on a third party to collect and auction  the 
vehicle.
I therefore think its reasonable  to ask VWFS to refund the advertising  cost she had to pay. I 
see theyve disputed how much the advertising  cost as it appears  Mrs H paid for one of the 
more expensive advertising options.  But I dont  think £64.95 is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. She wouldve wanted to optimise her chance  of selling the car in quick time 
as she was by now significantly out of pocket.
I dont think VWFS are disputing the other  areas that the adjudicator  suggested they attend 
to. But for completeness  I would agree that, in the circumstances, VWFS should pay Mrs H 
£100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.  I also think  
they should refund the cost of the servicing which was required as a result of the imposed 
delay and Id agree that the tyre cost was something Mrs H chose to have done and that 
shes had the benefit of through the sale of the car. So thats not something I think  VWFS 
should reimburse.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
refund  £169.99  for the completed service
pay Mrs H £64.95  for the advertising with A
pay Mrs H 100 to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  shes  
experienced 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7868875