K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way CIS General  Insurance Limited (CIS)  handled a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy. 
background
In early 2017 Mr and Mrs B made a claim for damage to their home. The downstairs of their 
home was suffering from damp and the patio area around the door had sunk.  Initially CIS 
thought the damage could have been  caused by subsidence, but after investigating it found 
there had been  a leak from an underground pipe which had caused the damage. CIS 
accepted the claim and started the repairs. 
Months later Mr and Mrs B complained to CIS about how the claim was being  handled.  They 
were unhappy  with the number of surveyors CIS had sent to the property. They  also raised 
concerns about  the state of the property, and whether it was safe to live in, as well as delays 
in the claim. They said appointments had been  missed and updates  hadnt  been given, 
which had caused  additional distress. 
Mr and Mrs B had asked for a cash settlement for the works as they didnt want  CIS to 
complete them, but complained the amount  offered wasnt  enough for them to have a like for 
like repair to their kitchen.  And it wasnt enough to cover the cost of a new patio, as CIS had 
only agreed to cover  part of it. 
CIS didnt  increase the cash settlement but agreed  its service  hadnt been up to the standard 
it should have  been. It accepted there was a short period of time where  Mrs B should have 
been offered alternative accommodation.  So it offered to provide a disturbance  allowance,  to 
account for the additional costs incurred  whilst  Mrs B was in the property. It paid £225  for 
this period of time. It also offered to reimburse  for any additional heating  costs incurred 
whilst the property had been subject to strip out works. It later paid around  £345 for this. 
CIS said whilst  it was necessary for different contractors to attend to determine  the cause of 
the damage, it accepted  there had been  unnecessary delays in the claim. By way of an 
apology it offered Mr and Mrs B £800 to recognise  the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept this and brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator  
agreed CIS service had been poor, but he thought £800 was a fair offer to reflect  the 
unnecessary distress caused. 
Having reviewed all of the surveyors reports,  he also thought the cash settlement offer of 
around £18,000 in total was sufficient. He said whilst Mr and Mrs B are entitled to accept a 
cash settlement, under  the policy CIS wouldnt normally pay more  than it would cost it to 
carry out the works. He was satisfied the offer made  by CIS reflected what it would cost it, so 
didnt think any more  needed to be paid. He also said Mr and Mrs B had provided  a quote for 
a completely new kitchen,  but they hadnt  shown all of the kitchen was damaged as a result  
of the leak.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. They said their policy provided like to like cover, so the quote for 
the kitchen repairs  should have been  matched. They also said CIS had bullied them into 
getting more reports and then changed  their offer as a result, which  they didnt think was fair.
Ref: DRN75368992As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware this is a large claim with a number of different rooms affected.  Many of the items 
in relation to the claim appear to be resolved. So this decision will only focus on the issues 
that remain outstanding. 
When making a claim under an insurance  policy, it is for the policyholder  (so in this case  Mr 
and Mrs B) to show  damage  has occurred as a result of a one-off insured event covered 
under the policy.  In this case, theres  no doubt  some  damage has been  caused to the 
kitchen by the leak, but having looked at everything  Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs B have 
shown their whole kitchen was damaged or needs  to be replaced  in order to fix the part that 
was damaged.
Insurance companies will often appoint loss adjusters to help its customers  establish what 
damage has occurred.  Ive seen three main reports on the damage to the kitchen. I can 
understand Mr and Mrs Bs confusion  with the reports. The conclusions  range from the first 
contractor saying the units are in poor condition to the final contractor saying there wasnt 
much evidence of mould damage to the kitchen units. But overall Im satisfied CIS has 
provided a fair offer taking  into account all of the reports. CIS has settled on the basis  of the 
second report, which listed the units affected  by the damp and the cost of replacing these 
like for like. 
Whilst the first report said the units were  in poor condition,  its purpose was to provide CIS 
with a quote for the drying of the property, rather than the replacement of kitchen  units. So 
the report didnt  recommend  a higher figure  be offered to replace the kitchen. Mr and Mrs B 
have provided  a quote for a new kitchen  which is around £2,000 more than the cash  
settlement. But this quote doesnt show that there  is more damage than CIS has claimed.  So 
Mr and Mrs B havent shown CIS offer is insufficient  to replace the damaged  items. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said when they bought the kitchen  it cost around £6,000, so CIS should  
pay this. And that their policy should  provide a like for like replacement.  But it should  only 
provide a like for like replacement for items that are damaged  as a result of the insured 
event, and based on everything Ive been  provided  I havent seen anything to suggest CIS 
hasnt done this.
The cash  settlement was paid to Mr and Mrs B in January 2018. In response to our 
investigators opinion  Mrs B said, as she couldnt find a replacement kitchen to match  the 
units CIS hadnt provided a cash amount to replace. So shed like a 50% contribution to the 
undamaged kitchen units to compensate for the loss of match.  CIS says when it provided the 
cash settlement, it did so on the basis the kitchen units  could be replaced with like for like. It 
now isnt willing to pay a 50% contribution for loss of match  as it says its not responsible if 
those units are no longer  available.  I think this is a reasonable position for CIS to take given 
the length of time since the cash settlement was paid. From  the reports  Ive seen Im 
satisfied CIS offer was for a like for like kitchen to replace  the parts that had been  damaged  
by the leak. So I think what it offered was reasonable.
Ref: DRN75368993Mr and Mrs B have  provided a quote for a new patio for £2,940. This was to replace the 
entire patio.  CIS offered  around £750  to replace  a much smaller  section of the patio  that it 
considered had been damaged by the escape  of water given the proximity to the leaking 
pipe. Mr and Mrs B havent provided  anything to show that the whole of the patio area was 
damaged by the leak, or that the whole patio  needs replacing in order to fix the damaged 
part. From the photos Ive seen, the patio  in general looks to be quite old and in need of 
maintenance. There is a clear section near the door where the patio has sunk and appears  
damaged by the leak, but I cant see that the whole patio was affected by this. So in the 
absence of anything  from M and Mrs B to show the leak caused more damage  to the patio, I 
think CIS offer is reasonable.
CIS has accepted  there were unnecessary delays in the claim and this has caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B, so the only thing I have to 
consider is whether it should pay more than £800  for this. Whilst I appreciate its difficult  to 
quantify the unnecessary upset caused,  Im satisfied £800  is a fair amount in the 
circumstances. 
From what  I can see it took around  nine months for the cash settlement to be offered by CIS. 
Whilst some  of the delays  were  unavoidable and a normal  part of an insurance claim,  its 
been accepted this could  have been  quicker. Mrs B was living in a property which CIS has 
accepted wasnt  suitable to live in for around  two weeks. Whilst its now provided a 
disturbance allowance for this period which I think is fair, I also consider the £800 
compensation is partly for this unnecessary worry. Mrs B said she felt bullied into accepting  
the final report from CIS. I can see why she was in a difficult position,  she wanted  CIS to 
increase its offer but it wanted another report carried out. But I think  CIS offered this in order 
to resolve the concerns Mr and Mrs B had. So I dont  think  it needs to pay additional 
compensation above what its already offered.
The claim has now been going on for some  time,  but as I think CIS cash offer was 
reasonable, I cant award any compensation for any distress Mrs B has suffered since  it 
made that offer. So overall based  on everything Ive seen  I think £800 is a fair offer of 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision that is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019. 
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7536899