K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mr B have  complained on behalf  of the estate of the late Mr B about the way a fire 
claim under his home insurance policy has been  handled by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  
and about the settlement its offered. For ease of reference since  the complaint has been 
mainly handled  by one of the executors, Ill refer to them  simply as Mr B junior from now 
on.
background
The late Mr B made a claim  to UKI after a fire damaged his home in March 2015.
An earlier complaint was brought to this service for the way UKI had handled the claim. 
UKI accepted that it had caused  some  delay and offered  £1,000 compensation for poor 
service between March  2015  and August 2016.
Sadly in 2016  Mr B passed away.
Mr B junior  made  a further complaint  in February 2018. He said UKI owed over £4,000 for 
carpets. He said the late Mr B had agreed to accept  £23,000 for the items that couldnt be 
restored but this didnt include the carpets.  He also complained about delay in repairing 
the property which had led to a problem with mould.
UKI said it had paid for the carpets in May 2016.  It said it wouldnt rectify a problem  with 
mould at the property because it wasnt related to the original claim. It apologised for the 
fact that the repairs hadnt been  finished until June  2018 and paid £300 compensation for 
this.
Mr B junior  wasnt happy. He said UKI had only paid £19,000  for the contents because it 
had deducted  the payment for the carpets.  He said the amount agreed for the contents  
didnt include the carpets. He also complained that the fitted wardrobes hadnt been put 
back.
UKI asked its contractor to refit the wardrobes.  This work was eventually  finished in March  
2019.
Mr B junior  brought a complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt think UKI should 
pay any more in respect of carpets.  He thought  it should pay a further £400 compensation 
for delays.  UKI agreed to this.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
From what I can see Mr B junior  was expecting the following settlement:
£ 
Items beyond economic  restoration 23,000
Carpets   4,132
Installation costs      368
Laundry costs   3,000
 ______
30,500
Ref: DRN78895502UKI has paid:
£
Items beyond economic  restoration 23,000
Installation costs      368
Laundry costs   3,000
 ______
26,368
The difference of £4,132  seems to relate to the carpets. UKI says settlement for the carpets
was included in the sum of £23,000. I dont think this was made  clear  to Mr B junior who was 
expecting an additional £4,132 for the carpets.
It appears from the correspondence Ive seen that UKI had been quoted £6,000  to clean  the 
items which it thought  were capable of restoration.  Mr B junior  said hed prefer a cash  
settlement rather than having  these items  cleaned.  Agreement  was reached in principle that 
UKI would pay Mr Bs estate £3,000 which it did. It then realised that the items which  had 
been returned to Mr B junior  had in fact been cleaned  by its contractor. So in effect  Mr B 
junior had a double benefit   the clothes  had been returned to him restored and hed had a 
cash settlement of £3,000 for them.
UKI has said it wouldnt seek  to recover this amount from the estate. I think thats fair. But 
conversely I dont  think  it would  be fair if I didnt  take this overpayment into account when 
considering whether UKI should pay any further  sum to Mr Bs estate.
I appreciate that Mr B junior has said the items hadnt been  successfully cleaned. But 
unfortunately theres no evidence of that since he disposed  of the items  before UKI had an 
opportunity to assess their condition.
By my calculations the balance  due to the estate in respect  of the contents  settlement is
£1,132. Bearing in mind the length  of time this claim has been outstanding I think  UKI
should pay simple  interest  on this amount  at the rate of 8 per cent from the date of loss.
This claim  has dragged  on for an unnecessarily  long time. In particular  there was a delay of 
over a year in refitting  the wardrobes due to a breakdown in communication.  UKI wasnt at 
all clear in its communications  about  the settlement amount  and the mix-up about the dry-
cleaning costs made this even  more confused.  Unfortunately for Mr B junior Im not able to 
require a business to award compensation for trouble and upset to parties  whove brought 
a complaint on behalf of an estate. However  I note that UKI has agreed to pay a further 
£400 compensation on top of the £300  already paid."
Mr B junior made a number of points  in response  to my provisional decision. In summary  he 
said:
He hadnt asked for a cash settlement instead  of having items dry-cleaned  or washed  
UKI had offered  this.
He still had a few items  of clothing that UKI had tried to clean and offered  to send them  to 
us so that we could  tell they were  still dirty and smelling  of smoke.
Hed never  received  the £300  compensation.
He thought UKI had changed  its calculations to suit its position.
He referred again to the delays in repairing the property.
Ref: DRN78895503UKI provided  evidence  that it had paid £5,531 for dry-cleaning  and £1,350 for washing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im persuaded by the evidence provided  by UKI that its contractor dry-cleaned and washed a 
large amount of items  that had been damaged  in the fire. Under the terms of the policy  UKI 
is entitled to choose whether to repair (which  in this case meant dry-cleaning  or washing) or 
to make a cash settlement. If Mr B junior wasnt happy with the results of the dry-cleaning  or 
washing, he should have complained to UKI before disposing  of the items in question. With 
regard to the few items that he still has, he may wish to send them  to UKI for it to consider. 
He may be entitled  to bring a further  complaint in respect of the remaining items if he wishes 
after going  through  UKIs complaints procedure.
At the time UKI issued  its final response in respect of this complaint UKI had no evidence  
from Mr B junior that the dry-cleaning and washing hadnt been satisfactory. So I dont think 
it treated the estate  unfairly in setting  off the £3,000  cash settlement paid by mistake  for dry-
cleaning and washing against the contents  claim.
That means UKI should pay the late Mr Bs estate  £1,132 being the balance due in 
settlement of the carpets  claim after taking into account the £3,000  already paid plus simple 
interest on this amount  at the rate of 8 per cent from the date of loss.
Mr B junior should contact  UKI regarding the compensation payment.
I agree  that UKI has not made the position at all clear about its settlement of this claim. And 
also there have been  unnecessary delays in repairing the property. But unfortunately, for the 
reasons previously explained,  I cant require UKI to pay compensation to Mr B junior for this. 
Ref: DRN78895504my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay the estate of the late Mr B 
£1,132 plus simple interest* on this amount at the rate of 8 per cent from the date of loss to 
the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B and Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B and Mr B a certificate  showing this.
Ref: DRN7889550