K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) should not have 
approved her loan applications as the loans were unaffordable. Mrs H is represented in her 
complaint by Mr M.
background
In November 2017 Mrs H applied online to Likely Loans for a £2,000 loan over 24 months.  
She maintained her repayments and in May 2018  she applied  online for an additional £1,000 
extending her loan period for a further  36 months.  
In June 2018 Mrs H complained to Likely Loans that the loans were  unaffordable. She said 
that if Likely Loans had carried out the proper checks it would have found that she had a bad 
payment history.  Her credit reference  file would  have  shown  that she had defaults recorded 
against her and that her level of debt had increased  massively over the years.  
Likely Loans said that in approving Mrs Hs applications it had carried out checks  
proportionate to the type and amount of the loans being requested. It had reviewed Mrs Hs 
credit reference file and taken account of the income and other  information  she had 
provided. It had applied its own internal assessment processes to that information  in 
deciding whether it should lend to Mrs H, and was satisfied that it should. 
Mrs H was unhappy with this response. She wanted Likely  Loans  to write off her outstanding 
balance, refund interest she had paid and remove any negative  information it had recorded 
on her credit  file.
In summary,  our adjudicators view was that Likely  Loans had not done anything  wrong here.  
Likely Loans had used Experian to carry out its credit checks and had provided us with 
evidence it had done so. Mrs Hs credit file did show a judgment dated October 2012 and a 
default dated June 2015. The adjudicator  said that as these were  not recent he didnt  think  
they should have stopped Likely Loans  from approving Mrs Hs application.  And the fact that 
someone historically had a record of bad debt wouldnt necessarily prevent a lender from 
lending. The decision to lend was a legitimate commercial one at the discretion  of the lender, 
subject to it first carrying out relevant and proportionate  checks.
Prior to her complaint, Mrs H had not missed any loan repayments or contacted Likely Loans 
to say that she was in financial difficulty.  It was therefore not apparent  that she was 
struggling to make the repayments as she says she was.
Mrs H was unhappy with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
She said the only reason she had been able to maintain her repayments was by borrowing 
from other lenders.  She had increased  her overall  level of indebtedness and got into a spiral  
of debt, which had adversely  affected her physical  and mental health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H is complaining that Likely Loans should not have approved  her loans  because  they 
were unaffordable given her other financial commitments and bad debt history. She believes 
that Likely Loans didnt carry out the affordability checks it should have done.
Ref: DRN72573922All lenders are required  to assess loan applications for affordability  as part of their approval 
process and to carry our credit checks.  But there isnt a standard  mandatory list of checks as 
these will vary depending  upon, amongst other things, the amount of the loan, whether it is 
secured or unsecured  and the income and other  financial commitments of the applicant.  The 
checks should be proportionate to the risks both to the borrower and the lender and will 
almost always  include  a credit reference check.  Lenders then legitimately make their own 
decisions on whether  to lend, which is a commercial  judgment for them.
Affordability will always be a consideration, but it is a time specific  judgement. A loan that a 
borrower finds affordable  at the start of the loan might subsequently  prove  to be unaffordable 
some months down the line due to an unexpected change  in the borrowers  circumstances. 
But where this happens  it doesnt  mean  that the loan was unaffordable at the outset.
Likely Loans approved Mrs Hs applications using  the information  she had provided about  
her financial  position  and it checked her credit reference file. Although the file showed that in 
the past Mrs H had struggled to maintain repayments on some  debts Likely  Loans judged  
that these problems were  sufficiently distant for it not to refuse Mrs Hs current applications. I 
see no reason to criticise Likely Loans for its decision to lend in these circumstances.
After her first application was approved  Mrs H consistently made on-time  repayments.  And 
so when she applied  for a top-up  loan a year later she had a good repayment history with 
Likely Loans and it approved her second smaller loan application.
Mrs H has said that she was only able to maintain repayments by borrowing from other 
providers and by increasing her overall  level of indebtedness leading her into a spiral  of 
debt. She has said she was on benefits  and struggling with her health, which was made 
worse by her worry about the debt she was in.
But as she didnt approach Likely Loans  about any of this Im afraid that I cannot  reasonably  
conclude that the company should have known about her difficulties.  Additionally I cannot 
hold Likely  Loans  responsible for decisions made by the other lenders Mrs H was involved 
with.
In summary,  and based on the evidence I have  seen, I dont consider that Likely  Loans  had 
any reason to think that Mrs H might  subsequently  find the loans  unaffordable  at the time it 
approved her applications.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72573923
Ref: DRN7257392