K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy  with the conduct of Arthur  J. Gallagher Insurance  Brokers Limited (AJG). 
She complains it has concealed information, and hasnt provided assistance with home  
insurance and legal expenses claims she made.
background
Ms B took home insurance and legal expenses insurance  out through AJG. Following this, 
Ms B needed  to raise  a number of claims under her home insurance and legal expenses  
cover.
Shes explained that shes unhappy with how AJG conducted itself after she raised  these 
claims. Ms B has said she took her insurance  out through  AJG  and so this is the party she 
expected to deal with, and respond to her insurance claims, rather than other parties.
In addition,  Ms B has raised concerns  that AJG and its subcontractors have concealed 
information.
In its final response letter, AJG said it didnt accept it had concealed any data. And, it 
explained that it wasnt  an insurer. It said Ms Bs insurance documents  explained who her 
insurer was. It confirmed  it did administer Ms Bs policy, and certain claims on behalf of her 
home insurer. But, it said it was the insurer that was responsible for the handling and 
payment of those claims. So, it didnt think it had acted incorrectly.
It noted it wasnt  able to comment  any further on the legal expenses  section  of Ms Bs cover.  
And that it didnt have  authority to deal with a claim Ms B made on her home  insurance  
policy for subsidence.  So, she would need to correspond directly with the insurer  of that 
policy.
AJG said her home insurance provider would also be taking over Ms Bs other  home 
insurance claims going forward. And therefore she would need  to correspond with her 
insurer directly  in respect of these too.
Ms B remained unhappy so referred  her complaint to this service  for an independent review.
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She 
said she couldnt see any evidence  to suggest AJG had concealed data,  and she could see 
it had passed  on information regarding her claims to the relevant insurer.
She also said AJG were  an insurance  intermediary and didnt provide any insurance cover. 
So, it wouldnt be responsible for the decision on whether to accept of decline claims. 
Rather, the relevant insurer would.
Ms B didnt agree. She referenced data being  concealed, and said AJG had admitted  to 
concealing data.  Ms B also referred  to specific claims she had made.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Ms B and AJG on 17 January 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend on 
upholding this complaint. I appreciate Ms B feels strongly about the issues she has raised.  
But, Ive explained the reasons for my decision below.
Ref: DRN76735952Ms B has raised a number of points and concerns in relation to her complaint. Ive 
considered all of Ms Bs points fully. But, in this decision Ive only referred to those points 
and information  I consider  to be relevant to the crux of this complaint, and my decision.
handling of insurance claims
As above, Ms B has said she took out her insurances through AJG. So she expected this to 
be the party she would be dealing with  and would  respond to her claims.  So, Ive looked to 
see what Ms B was told when she took out her insurance policies about who her insurer 
would be.
Ive reviewed the policy documents Ms B was issued  with for each policy year  as well as 
some cover letters sent to her. Ms B initially took out insurance through AJG in 2011. And a 
cover letter was sent to her, which explained who the insurer of her policy was, and when 
this cover took effect from.
In 2013, the insurer  for Ms Bs policy changed.  And, at that point  I can see a cover  letter  was 
sent to Ms B, confirming that the insurer for her policy  was changing  and it detailed who 
this new insurer was.
The policy schedules Ms B was sent each year also detailed the name of the relevant  
insurer on them. So, Im satisfied it was made clear to Ms B who her insurer  was each year.  
So, I dont think AJG did anything incorrectly  here. And, it would be the insurers detailed in 
Ms Bs policy schedules that would  therefore  be responsible for any claims Ms B raised 
during the time she was covered with them. So, Im satisfied AJG doesnt need  to do 
anything further  in this respect.
Im aware there have been  some  occasions when AJG has assisted in the handling of claims
Ms B made,  on behalf of the insurer listed in Ms Bs policy schedule. And I can appreciate  
this may have caused some confusion. But, I dont think  AJG has suggested it would be the 
party ultimately responsible for any claims  made.
Im aware Ms B has some claims she has explained  are outstanding. Ms B will need to 
contact the relevant insurer if she wants to progress these claims.
concealed data
Ms B has said that AJG concealed  data.  Ive asked Ms B what information  she thinks AJG 
has concealed  and from who. Ms B responded to my request  but didnt  give an answer 
to this question. So, Im not able to make  a finding  on this point. Except to say that AJG has 
provided me with an email  to show it has given  Ms B a response  to a data subject access 
request she made. So it seems it has provided data it holds to her. Given this, and Ms B 
hasnt clarified who else she feels data has been  concealed from, and what  data that is, Im 
satisfied AJG doesnt need to do anything more.
Both Ms B and AJG confirmed they received my provisional decision. AJG confirmed it didnt 
have any further  comments  to add. Ms B explained  she didnt agree. In respect  of her 
concerns about  data being concealed  she referred  to an email  she had sent to this service in 
July 2018, asking AJG to disclose all information  she hadnt seen since  2017.
Ref: DRN76735953my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint,  as detailed in my provisional decision.
Neither party has raised any further  comments  on my findings about the handling of Ms Bs 
insurance claims. Or provided any further  information to alter what  I think is fair and 
reasonable in this respect. So, my final decision on this point remains  the same  as noted in 
my provisional decision. 
But, Ms B did provide  a comment in respect of my findings  on concealed data. She referred 
to an email sent to this service in July 2018, in which she asked that AJG disclose all 
information she hadnt seen since 2017.  
Ive considered what Ms B has said here. But, I can see that AJG did provide Ms B with a 
response to a data subject access request  in June 2018. So, it did provide Ms B with 
information it held for her. And Ms B hasnt provided  any further evidence to suggest AJG 
concealed information from her or other  parties. So, I dont think  AJG needs to do anything  
more in respect of this complaint.
It is however important to note that if Ms B is unhappy with how AJG completed the above 
mentioned subject access request, she will need  to refer these concerns to the information  
commissioners office. This is because it is the body  that considers complaints  in relation to 
data protection  legislation.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Arthur 
J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited  do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7673595