K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a life and critical illness policy taken out with a loan in 2007.
Mr G says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold the policy  to him. He said the policy  wasnt  clearly 
explained to him and that he wouldnt have taken it out if it had been.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Black Horse  has sent us a copy of Mr Gs loan agreement. This included a section on 
optional protection,  with a box to be ticked and a space for Mr G to sign if he wanted to take 
the policy out. And there is a tick in the box and Mr G has signed  in the space. The loan 
agreement also set out the cost of the policy, separately to the cost of the loan itself.
Based on this, I think Black Horse  made  it clear  to Mr G that he had a choice about  the 
policy. And that Mr G chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Black Horse  says it recommended the policy to Mr G, so it had to make  sure that it was right 
for him. We requested further  information from Mr G about his circumstances at the time of 
the sale, but he didnt provide any more information  to us. So Ive had to come to my 
decision based on the information I do have.  But, based on what  I have seen of Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think its likely  that the policy  was right for him.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr G was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. Mr G told us he didnt  have any savings or insurance he couldve used to make 
the loan repayments if he was ill. And Black Horse  has sent us a demands and needs  
questionnaire which shows Mr G told it he didnt  have  enough  insurance  or employee 
benefits to repay the outstanding balance of the loan if he was diagnosed  with a critical 
illness or died.
If Mr G had been diagnosed with a critical illness, it could have significantly affected his 
financial situation. The types of illness covered by the policy  couldve affected his ability  to 
work, led to him needing to make  adjustments to his home or needing additional  support in 
his day to day life.
The policy would have paid off any outstanding  balance on his loan, which wouldve meant  
he could put any other  income he had towards any extra expenses  that did occur.  The policy 
would also have paid off the outstanding balance on the loan if Mr G had died, and so the 
loan debt wouldnt have  been passed on and affected the beneficiaries  of his estate.
So I think its likely the policy was right for Mr G and he wouldve seen some  value in taking it 
out. This means I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN70846932Mr G has said the cost of the policy caused  him financial difficulty. But the cost of the policy 
was relatively small in comparison to the cost of the loan itself. And I havent seen any 
evidence that it was the additional cost of the PPI, rather than the cost of the loan itself or 
any other financial product Mr G had, that led to his financial difficulty. So I dont think  this 
means the policy was mis-sold.
So Black Horse doesnt need to refund everything  Mr G paid for the policy.  But Black Horse  
has offered to give Mr G back some of the cost of the policy. I dont think it needs  to do 
anything more.
Black Horse  will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7084693