K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a Nationwide mortgage  in 2002 and bought a PPI policy  at the same 
time. 
Initially, the policy gave  Mr and Mrs G an equal  joint benefit of £250 a month for up to 24 
months if either of them was off work sick because of an accident or illness  or if they lost 
their jobs.  The PPI was free for the first 12 months  and, after that, Mr and Mrs G paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy.
The policy was amended in 2005  to give Mr G the full benefit  of £500 a month  with a benefit 
period of up to 12 months.
Among other  things, Mr and Mrs G say the costs of the PPI werent made clear to them  and 
that it mustve been recommended to them because  it was free for the first year.  They say 
the PPI wasnt suitable  for them.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Gs complaint didnt  uphold  it. Mr and Mrs G 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Nationwide made it clear to Mr and Mrs G they 
had a choice about PPI and got their agreement to it. I think Nationwide did do this. Ive seen 
a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application.  In it, theyve signed to say they want  to 
protect their mortgage against accident, sickness and/or  unemployment. Nationwide has 
also sent us a sample mortgage application showing what Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  
application wouldve  looked like if theyd  said no to the cover, or already had cover in place.  
From all of this, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G agreed  to the PPI knowing they had a choice 
about it.
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide recommended the PPI to them. Nationwide  says it didnt. 
From what  we know about how Nationwide sold PPI with mortgages at this time, I think  its 
unlikely it gave Mr and Mrs G a tailored recommendation  based  on a detailed  assessment of 
their needs.  And I can see Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  application  says all Nationwide  has 
done is give them sufficient information  to make  their own decision about the type and level 
of cover they need. 
Ref: DRN79244392As Mr G says,  though,  its possible Nationwide didnt follow its normal  process in his and  
Mrs Gs case.  But even  if I were  to assume Nationwide did recommend the PPI to              
Mr and Mrs G  and so did need  to make  sure it was right for them in their circumstances  I 
think it was. I say this because, based  on what they say of their circumstances at the time 
and the policy details Ive got:
Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the PPI. And theres nothing  to suggest they were 
affected by any of the things PPI policies dont usually cover  like known medical 
conditions or unusual employment  terms. So they couldve  claimed  the full policy 
benefit if theyd  needed to.
I think the policy couldve been of use to Mr and Mrs G. They say neither of them  got 
sick pay and they dont mention any other  ways  they had to pay their mortgage if 
things got difficult   like savings  or other  insurance  policies. A mortgage is a 
significant and long-term financial commitment and is secured on your home  which 
is at risk if you fall behind on your repayments.  Mr and Mrs Gs policy  wouldve paid a 
monthly benefit initially for up to 24 months for each successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim Mr or Mrs G made.  I think having this cover in place wouldve 
given them important  piece of mind at what couldve been an uncertain time.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs G couldnt afford the cover.
Nationwide needed  to give Mr and Mrs G enough clear information  about the PPI to enable  
them to make an informed  decision about whether they wanted it. I dont know what  steps 
Nationwide took to do this  and its possible it didnt make some things as clear to              
Mr and Mrs G as it shouldve. But I can see the monthly cost of the PPI is set out in             
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer letter, which also made it clear  the cover  was free for the first 
12 months. Although  I dont have any correspondence showing Nationwide  advised them the 
free period  was coming to an end, Nationwide says it wouldve done  this. And, in any case,  
they wouldve  been able to see the PPI premiums from their mortgage statements and 
couldve cancelled it if they no longer  wanted it without penalty.
From what  Ive seen, I think its clear Mr and Mrs G wanted the cover and it was right for 
them in their circumstances. So I think clearer information about the PPI, had it been 
needed, is likely only to have confirmed this to them. I dont think  its likely it wouldve 
stopped them going ahead with it.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mr and Mrs G some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As                
Mr and Mrs Gs became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Nationwide doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN79244393my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7924439