K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains Sainsburys  Bank  Plc trading as Sainsburys Finance (Sainsburys)  
transferred a balance  on his credit card without his authority.
background
Sainsburys accept they transferred  - without Mr Es authority - the balance on his credit card 
with another provider to his credit card with them in May 2018. To rectify this, in May 2018, 
they agreed Mr E would repay the balance on the Sainsburys credit card using his credit 
card with the other provider which he duly did. Sainsburys also paid Mr E £100  
compensation for this mistake. In September 2018 it came to Mr Es attention  that in May 
2018 Sainsburys made a further error  when  they recalled the unauthorised balance transfer. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy  with Sainsburys final response  to his 
complaint on the 11 October 2018. Sainsburys apologised for recalling Mr Es balance 
transfer and arranged for the balance to be refunded  to his other  credit  card in line with the 
details hed provided. They also agreed  to pay for any interest Mr E incurred on his other 
credit card as a result of their mistake. And Sainsburys offered and paid into Mr Es bank 
account £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience this further  mistake  had caused.
Mr E asked us to help as he thought  this wasnt enough compensation. He told us 
Sainsburys made a similar mistake  in May 2018 and he thought compensation for this 
further mistake should be between  £500  and £2000.
Our investigator didnt  think there were any losses apart from the inconvenience  and trouble 
and upset Sainsburys errors had caused Mr E. He thought the compensation offered was 
fair and reasonable considering the circumstances and recommended Mr E accepted  it.
Mr E asked for an ombudsman to review his case.  He said there  had been obvious  errors for 
quite large amounts of money.  He said he would be pushing to appeal  his case  if it isnt 
found in his favour with minimum compensation £500 and maximum of £2000.  He also told 
us hed consider  legal action as he couldnt  accept  these two cases  as being  written of as 
just mistakes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No one disputes whats gone  on in this case and Sainsburys accept responsibility for their 
part in that. What remains in dispute is the amount of compensation Mr E should receive to 
put that right.
It isnt my role to punish  businesses for making  mistakes; its my role to a consumer back 
into the position that they would have been in if the mistakes hadnt  been made. In putting 
Mr E back  in the position he would have been  if these mistakes hadnt  been made Im 
looking at the impact Sainsburys failing had on Mr E specifically rather  than focussing on 
whats gone wrong. Ive also got to look at what steps Mr E took to minimise  the impact  of 
Sainsburys mistake. 
Ive considered very carefully what Mr Es told us about having  sleepless nights, worry and 
spending time trying to get to the bottom of this. Whilst I can see this was a worrying time for 
Ref: DRN76067552him I think Sainsburys response was timely and reasonable  both when he made  the original 
complaint and later in September 2018.  I appreciate it seems this has gone on for some time 
but its Mr Es responsibility to monitor and manage his accounts. And as Mr E only noticed 
and raised the second mistake of the recall some  months later, in September 2018, I dont 
think I can hold Sainsburys responsible for the time it has taken to resolve overall.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr Es incurred any interest  or charges as a result  of the 
mistakes but, if he has. Sainsburys  have  agreed  to meet  these. Mr Es sent us an undated  
screenshot from a credit  check  service showing the outstanding balance on his previous 
credit card. Sainsburys say this has been  rectified and Mr Es told our investigator he didnt 
apply for or was declined for lending during  this time. So - aside from the distress  and 
inconvenience - I can find no other  losses. Overall  I think the combined  total payment of 
£300 for the original mistake in May and later in September 2018 to be a fair and reasonable 
award. Its the sort of award  Id have recommended had it not already been  offered. So I 
dont require Sainsburys to take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7606755