K822xcomplaint 
Miss L has complained  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Miss L took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Miss L. It has accepted  
the information it gave Miss L about  the policy wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  And 
RSA has offered to pay her £1,000  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Miss Ls complaint.
Miss L has told us shes not happy with the offer RSA has made  because, due to its cost,  
she has been forced to cancel the policy, and no other insurer will cover her pets  
pre-existing conditions now. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Miss Ls policy is too high,  she should have been  charged less for the 
policy or that RSA should offer her cheaper cover in the future.
While Miss Ls premium  has seen significant  increases,  I havent  seen any evidence  to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to offer her a policy with a lower  premium going 
forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Miss L a significant amount of distress as, due to the 
medical conditions  her pet now has, she cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. And I 
recognise the continuing increases in the premium have meant shes had to cancel the 
policy and now must  pay for any future treatment herself.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Miss L the information  she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN79567052If Miss L hadnt taken  a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover  at all, and would 
have had to pay for all her pets treatment  herself,  or a reduced level of cover, where  she 
would still have found herself in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were no longer 
covered.
Miss L has gone on to say that she would have  taken a policy with a different provider had 
she been given  more information.  But the majority  or lifetime policies work in the same  way, 
and while  Miss L may have been able to find a policy that offered slightly lower premiums  it 
is also possible, she would have taken a policy that cost the same,  or more  than the one she 
had.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Miss L having cover  for ongoing conditions  at a fixed or capped premium   this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Miss L has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Miss L for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Miss L £1,000 compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7956705