K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about Mercer Limited advising him to transfer the benefits from his former 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a section 32 buy-out plan. This has resulted in him 
not being able to take his pension at age 63 or take a tax-free lump sum. He asks for 
financial compensation.
background
Mercer (formally Sedgwick Noble Lowndes)  advised  Mr P in 1993. He decided  to take 
voluntary redundancy from his then employer  who offered free pension  advice to any 
employee taking  redundancy. Mercer  advised  Mr P to transfer  the benefits from his OPS to a 
section 32 buy-out plan.  The selected retirement age was 63, which  was consistent with the 
age he was due to retire from his OPS.
Mr P, who is now approaching 63, has found  out he will have  to wait until he is 65 to take his 
pension benefits.  This is because  his pension included a Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP). The fund value is currently insufficient  to pay the GMP but it would have to pay it 
when Mr P attains 65. He also wont be entitled  to any tax-free cash, as he wouldve been 
had he remained in his OPS.
Mr P complained to Mercer. In its final response, dated 3 July 2019,  it didnt  uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint. It said although it hadnt  been able to locate the actual sales information from 
1993, it had acquired enough documentation  to establish the advice given to Mr P was 
suitable for his circumstances  at the time.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ps complaint. In summary, she said having looked at 
all the information  available  she found  the advice to be suitable and didnt ask Mercer to do 
anything further.
Mr P disagreed. He said the only stipulation he had at the time of advice was to retire at age 
63. He said at no point did the adviser  make  him aware he may be in a worse position if 
there were insufficient funds to take the pension early and so he asked  for an ombudsman  
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  view as the investigator. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr P. Ill explain  why.
A Section 32 plan allowed  the transfer of a workplace pension into an individual plan. Some 
of these, including Mr Ps plan, offered a GMP. Where a Section  32 provides a commitment 
to a GMP, the provider  must make sure the GMP is covered. This is equivalent to the top-up 
pension that wouldve been provided  by the government in addition to the basic  state  
pension. When these  policies were sold, this was seen as a benefit, as it would  guarantee a 
minimum level of pension  payment, irrespective of the fund value that had accrued. But, it 
was anticipated  that fund growth would outstrip this basic requirement and provide for a 
pension, along  with tax-free cash,  in excess of that. The provider doesnt add funds to the 
pension plan but will make good  any shortfall  in the amount required to buy the GMP. This 
Ref: DRN73946432commitment applies at age 65 for men, so the provider may refuse to pay the benefits,  
including a tax-free cash lump sum or allow a transfer away before then, if there is a 
shortfall. 
Ive looked carefully  at the Pension  Transfer account  provisions document. Clause 9.2 says:
a.  on the Pension Date the Retirement  Proceeds  together with the Deferred Annuity (if any
(shall first be applied  by the Society  to provide 
i.an annuity in response of the Annuitant commencing at State Pension Date  of an 
amount equal to the Guaranteed Minimum Pension
Mr P has said that at no point did the adviser  point out that he may be in a worse position 
if there were  insufficient funds to take the pension  early.  But I think  the terms did make it 
clear the final benefits would  be paid at age 65
Page 8, of the suitability report says:
..If the guaranteed minimum pension is adequately covered you will be able to take the 
benefits at any time from age 50 onwards,  regardless or not of whether you are actually 
retiring
The suitability report goes  on to explain  the pension you were  transferring to  didnt 
provide a guarantee, outside  of the GMP element and the pension  benefits available  at 
retirement would  be entirely dependent on the fund value at the time and the annuity  
rates available. 
From what  Ive seen, the documents provided to Mr P make it clear  that when  benefits  
could be taken from the Section 32 plan were dependent on whether or not the fund 
value was equal to or greater than the  GMP.
In 2000, pension advice given at certain times was subject to the regulators industry 
wide pension review.  The regulator initiated  this review because  it feared  that investors 
had been given poor advice that didnt meet the required standards at the time. I 
understand Mr Ps plan was part of this review  but as hed moved  address, he didnt 
respond.
Following Mr Ps complaint, Mercer carried out a retrospective calculation to establish  the 
investment performance  that would be required by the buyout plan to match  the benefits 
Mr P was giving up from his OPS. This is called the critical yield.  The purpose of this 
calculation is to establish if there  was an advantage  of transferring the benefits at the time. 
The calculation was carried out assuming the retirement age of 63. This is summarised in 
the Transfer Value  Analysis (TVAS) and states  a critical yield of 8.6% if Mr P retired at the 
assumed retirement  age. This is the age Mr Ps OPS would have  allowed him to retire at. 
This means  the new pension needed  an investment growth of 8.6%  every  year in order to 
match his existing pension. But, just matching the benefits wouldnt be enough  there 
needs to be a reasonable prospect the Mr P would be better off at retirement as 
otherwise, there would be no advantage  in transferring.
There wasnt any official guidance given by the regulator at the time for what  would be 
considered viable rates of growth. But, it did publish discounted rates for the purpose  of 
the industry wide review.  Because Mr P transferred his pension in November 1993 and 
Ref: DRN73946433had 29 years left until retirement,  the suggested growth rate was around  10.9%. So, this 
is the growth rate the regulator wouldve considered reasonably achievable at the time. 
I understand, unfortunately, the assumptions used havent mirrored the subsequent 
reality of the situation   albeit a lot of thought was given to them and they were  
considered reasonable at that time.  But, whilst disappointing, the fact these conditions 
havent prevailed, primarily due to the performance  of financial markets, resulting  in the  
value of Mr Ps fund not being sufficient to cover the cost of providing his GMP doesnt 
mean he was given poor advice at the time.  Whilst today, a critical yield of 8.6% could be 
classed as highly optimistic, at the time of the transfer this yield was seen as realistically 
achievable. Im persuaded there  are sufficient risk warnings within both the suitability 
report and the pension transfer  documents  to suggest Mr P should have been  reasonably  
aware, the flexibility of earlier retirement  would only be possible if the fund value was 
equal or greater  to the GMP. The nature of the guarantee means, as Ive said,  that the 
provider will have to cover the shortfall  to provide the GMP hes entitled  to but not until 
state retirement age, which at the time was 65
I sympathise and understand Mr Ps disappointment that he cant  access  his benefits  at 63 
and will need to wait until he is 65 but I cant reasonably say Mercer  have done anything 
wrong and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7394643