K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI), about 
how it fitted a kitchen as part of a water leak claim it handled.
background
Mr and Mrs Rs home  suffered water  damage  in October 2017 when there  was a leak in the 
property next-door  to them. UKI accepted  a claim from Mr and Mrs R and the family moved 
into alternative accommodation. By August  2018 the reinstatement  work  was nearing 
completion. Mr and Mrs R were  due to move back home  on 27 August 2018 and they told 
UKIs loss adjuster  that if this date needed  to change they needed to know by
24 August 2018,  or theyd incur  charges.
On 22 August 2018 Mr R asked UKIs  loss adjuster to confirm all was on track for moving on 
27 August as planned. The loss adjuster didnt answer Mr Rs email at this time. On
23 August 2018  UKIs contractor told Mr R that he should delay  moving home by a week.
On 27 August 2018 Mr R visited  his home.  He was disappointed with what  he found in the 
kitchen. In short, the tiling hadnt  been  installed and finished as agreed,  the worktops were 
too high and sloping, there was a large gap between  the tops and the appliances as well as 
a gap between  the top of the plinths and the cupboards,  there was a panel missing and the 
sink was installed in such a way anyone washing up would have to twist to use it.
Mr R and the contractor  exchanged some  emails as the loss adjuster  was on leave until
29 August 2018.  But Mr R also emailed the loss adjuster so shed be updated on her return
 he said the move was on hold.  On her return on 29 August  2018 the loss adjuster spoke 
with Mr R. The call note records that they discussed the state  of the kitchen  there  is no 
record of the adjuster  telling Mr R that it was felt the home was habitable and that he should  
move the family back home.
Mr R was then given  some assurances  by the contractor that issues with the kitchen would  
be rectified and, on 30 August 2018,  Mr R asked the loss adjuster if she could advise  when it 
was felt matters might  be resolved so the move home could be re-booked. The loss adjuster 
didnt reply until 3 September 2018. Her response was brief  the third of only four 
sentences being:
If the remaining rooms have been resolved and the kitchen as it stands at the moment is 
functional, appreciate this is far from finished to your standard, however we would consider 
your home habitable.
Mr R responded that same day and said he didnt think the home was habitable. 
Correspondence between  the loss adjuster, the contractor  and Mr R then continued and the 
matter with the kitchen  remained  unresolved. Mr R wasnt told to move back home.
In October  the loss adjuster  was discussing the issue of the kitchen with UKIs claim handler.  
The claim handler felt the contractor was likely  responsible for the outstanding issues  with 
the kitchen. But he also said he felt the home was habitable. However, as a decision on the 
kitchen hadnt  been made yet, he said not to communicate to Mr R that the home was felt to 
be habitable until that decision had been made.
Further discussions then took place regarding the work.  On 19 October 2018 the loss 
Ref: DRN78683362adjuster and Mr R spoke on the phone and Mr R asked  the adjuster about  covering the cost 
of rent to date.  The adjuster said that she had already declined to pay rent when most of the 
work had been  finished and told Mr R that UKI had also confirmed that no further rent would 
be paid. In an email on 22 October  2018,  Mr R told the adjuster  that they would move back  
home on 27 October 2018  time was needed  to arrange this and get packed  subject to 
UKIs contractor agreeing  to complete the outstanding work.
No agreement for work to be completed  was reached at this time and Mr R and his family 
remained in alternative  accommodation.
The loss adjuster and contractor continued  to discuss the issue  of repairs. The contractor 
had initially  been  adamant their work had been done to a good standard  and there was 
nothing they needed to do by way of correction. Whilst Mr R had initially been willing to have 
the contractor resolve issues, as time went on he told the adjuster he was reluctant to 
conclude matters in this way. He didnt  have faith in the contractor to do a good job because 
they didnt accept there was anything wrong.
The loss adjuster explained to the contractor that UKI felt they were responsible, and that 
one way or another the kitchen would need  to be rectified. She said they could either do the
re-work or, if UKI had to settle  in cash with Mr R, the settlement amount would be deducted 
from the contractors account. The contractor then agreed to do some  work, and the adjuster 
told Mr R that a cash settlement would  be worked out for him based on the contractors  costs  
because he wasnt prepared to allow  the contractor to return.  The contractor set out a plan 
and some costs. Following some revisions  the final amount offered to Mr and Mrs R was 
£3,294.79.
Mr and Mrs R looked at the repair plan. Essentially the current  worktops and units would be 
taken out, the units cut down to lower the overall  height the worktops would sit at, and 
thicker worktops would be installed,  thus eradicating the gaps (both  between  the worktop  
and the appliances, and between the base unit and the plinths). Upstands could then be 
added and/or sealant could be used to cover  any gaps between  the worktop and the tiles.
Mr and Ms R noted that the plan wouldnt resolve  the tiling issues   tiles had been cut in 
around the wall and base units - nor would it change the fact that incorrect edging  strips had 
been used to finish the tiles. They also noted  that the plan only allowed for one side of the 
kitchen to be taken  out and lowered, even  though  the units on the other side were at an 
incorrect height too. They noted  that the kitchen  designer (UKIs agent) had said the kitchen 
needed to be taken out and re-installed. The loss adjuster said the whole issue had always 
been about the gaps  in the kitchen  and the contractors plan would  resolve this; she 
concluded the costs were  fair. Regarding the edging  strips, she noted the old kitchen hadnt  
benefitted from similar finishing and said no more than that.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  and complained  to us  about UKI offering settlement based  on 
its cost to reinstate,  rather than theirs, but also because theyd remained unconvinced by its 
repair plan. Because  theyd  still been living away from home, in December 2018 they had 
their own contractor remove  and reinstate their kitchen. They sent us photos of the kitchen 
as UKIs contractor had left it and some showing the kitchen once  their contractor had 
reinstalled it. They confirmed that they were still unhappy about  UKI having left rubbish at 
the property and the damage that had been  caused  to their lawn.  Mr and Mrs R said that 
Mrs Rs business which she ran from the house,  had been negatively  affected by them 
having been out of the house so long.
Ref: DRN78683363Our investigator noted that whilst considering the concerns Mr and Mrs R had raised with 
UKI, it had offered them  a total of £750   it had accepted that it had, at times, offered a poor 
service and caused some delays. She felt this was fair and reasonable. Regarding  rent, poor 
work (kitchen), the rubbish and the impact on Mrs Rs business, she also wasnt minded  to 
make UKI do anything.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint was 
passed to me. I felt UKI needed to pay further  rent to Mr and Mrs R, and any costs  for the 
December 2018  reinstatement work, along  with any for rubbish removal  if evidenced. But 
I said I didnt intend to award  anything in respect of re-turfing the garden or Mrs Rs 
business losses and nothing more  for compensation for upset.  The parties have now 
replied. Ive set out my provisional findings, their responses and my final findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Alternative accommodation (AA)
I said provisionally  This was handled  poorly by the loss adjuster.  The adjuster was not 
clear with Mr R and did not manage  his expectations regarding this. I think UKI has to pay 
for at least part of the extra rent Mr and Mrs R incurred.
UKI was clear with Mr R in October 2018  that it felt the home was habitable and no further  
rent would be paid by it. Mr R noted around  that time that he could move  on 27 October  if 
the work  was agreed to. I think  Mr R was on notice by then that, regardless of work being  
agreed, UKI wasnt  minded  to pay more rent. I think UKI reasonably  needs  to pay 
Mr and Mrs Rs costs to 27 October 2018.
UKI told us it did pay a further weeks rent. It didnt say for when. It seems to me this must 
have been for the week its contractor told Mr and Mrs R to delay for. That being the case 
UKI owes Mr and Mrs R for eight weeks rent 3 September 2018 to 27 October 2018.
I understand rent was £1,050 per week. That makes  a total of £8,400  for UKI to pay, plus 
interest* on any amount that makes up this sum paid by Mr and Mrs R from the date of 
payment until settlement  is made.
UKI said that following a conversation with Mr R in May (it didnt state  which year) it believed  
there was nothing outstanding for it to pay regarding rent. Mr R asked for interest to be 
applied from the date he was due to move home. I noted Mr R had told us in August 2020  
that the rent from September onwards was still outstanding. I had our investigator  send the 
following comment from me to UKI:
I note the following from UKIs response to my provisional findings:
AA - we have paid in total to [Mr R] £14362.32  for the accommodation  that he arranged. 
I spoke with [Mr R] on the 29/5 and he confirmed that the only payment outstanding for the 
AA was one week  at £1050 which was paid and is included in the figures above.
I also note that no evidence to support this detail  was sent. Im not sure if this was an 
oversight but the comments alone   set in light of what Mr and Mrs R told us in August this 
year and UKIs activity  file which shows it refused  to cover any rental costs  post 
Ref: DRN786833643 September 2018  dont  convince  me that my provisional finding was wrong. As youll 
recall that was for UKI to pay £8,400  to reimburse  8 weeks  worth  of rental costs incurred by 
Mr and Mrs R between 3 September 2018  and 27 October 2018.
If UKI does have other evidence it wishes to provide it needs to make sure we have received 
this by the deadline set in my provisional decision  21 October 2020. 
UKI responded stating that its claims  handler had been told by Mr R that there was no rent 
outstanding for it to pay. It said proof of Mr Rs payments should be obtained.
I understand UKI has a concern here.  But despite  me specifically pointing out to it that 
evidence had not been provided and would need  to be seen if it wanted  to support its 
concerns, it hasnt provided anything.  Imparting  a conversation third-hand is not sufficiently 
compelling evidence,  not in light of the fact UKI accepted the wider  claim for accommodation 
costs and it is clear that Mr and Mrs R did remain living in that property until well beyond the 
end of the period I have said it is liable for paying for. Further, if UKI had wanted to establish 
it has paid sufficient already to cover that period it could have provided more and better 
detail about the payments it has made and the periods they cover.   
Mr and Mrs R did clarify  in writing in August 2020  that they did consider their costs for rent to 
be outstanding  and due from UKI. Ive no reason to doubt what they say. UKI hasnt shown 
me that it has paid for rent during September and October 2018 and given its file notes  
clearly state that it was not prepared to pay Mr and Mrs R for their losses  beyond  
3 September 2018, and they were clearly living there, I cant  reasonably take UKIs  word that 
nothing is outstanding. Nor do I find it necessary  to require Mr and Mrs R to provide more 
proof at this stage. I remain of the view that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs R £8,400 for rent for 
the period 3 September to 27 October 2018,  plus interest*. 
Interest will need to be applied,  as set out above, on any amount that makes up the sum of 
£8,400, which was paid by Mr and Mrs R, from the date they paid it until settlement is made.  
This is because it is fairly applied from the date costs are incurred as it makes up for the 
person being out of pocket by that sum. Applying it from an earlier date, such as when 
Mr and Mrs R should have moved back home, would be unfair   it would equate  to a punitive 
award against UKI for delaying  that return, not compensation for being out of pocket.
kitchen
I said provisionally  Ive considered the problems with the kitchen, the plan (such  that it is) 
as suggested  by UKIs contractor for repair, Mr and Mrs Rs objections  and the report  by the 
kitchen designer. Ive also seen photos showing the kitchen as it was when  UKIs  contractor 
ceased work and how Mr and Mrs Rs contractor reinstated  the kitchen. I think  Mr and Mrs R 
were right to be concerned about  UKIs contractor doing work, partly because  it agreed to do 
it under  duress  whilst not really believing there were any issues  with its finish,  and partly  
because I think its suggested  plan was flawed. Im satisfied  that UKI should  reimburse  their 
costs incurred for reinstating  the kitchen, over and above any settlement it has already made 
to them  for this work. I think it should  also pay interest* on the additional  sum from the date 
Mr and Mrs R had the work done until settlement  is made.
Mr and Mrs R provided proof of what they paid for the materials and labour required to 
remove and re-fit the kitchen. These documents were  shared  with UKI, and I issued some 
further provisional findings  to both parties setting out what I think  UKI should pay. I said:
Ref: DRN78683365Mr and Mrs R have  provided evidence of the costs they incurred when  they reinstated  the 
kitchen towards the end of 2018/early 2019.  I need  to let both parties know then what  my 
view on these sums are and if my final decision remains along the lines of that stated 
provisionally, Ill likely require UKI to pay the below sum in settlement for the kitchen  work.
Mr and Mrs R have asked for and provided some evidence and detail regarding the following 
sums:
1)£3,200, plus VAT for labour to re-fit the kitchen.  This specifies that materials  are to be 
provided by Mr and Mrs R.  
2)£708.96 (inc VAT) for materials  (not including  tiles).
3)£443.52 for tiles (the receipt isnt clear if this includes  VAT or not, but this is the sum 
Mr and Mrs R have  asked for).
4)£500 plus VAT for the labour of fitting  tiles.
I think  1)  £3,200  for the work  required,  seems reasonable, and the work detailed 
seems in line with what  was needed to be done. So I think its reasonable to require UKI 
to pay this sum excluding VAT to Mr and Mrs R  with a further  payment equal  to VAT 
being made if Mr and Mrs R show UKI they paid VAT.
I can see that in 2)  the materials purchased, are in line with what  the kitchen 
manufacturer/retailer said were required to re-fit the kitchen. So I think its reasonable to 
require UKI to pay this sum, including VAT as VAT has been incurred.
I cant  see any reason to say the cost in 3)  for tiles, is unreasonable. So I think UKI 
should pay this sum.
Im not going to make it pay 4)  a further  £500  plus VAT for fitting the tiles. Tiling  work 
is included as part of the cost of 1)  £3,200.  
The total (exc VAT on point1)  which  I think  UKI should pay for the 2018/2019 reinstatement  
work is £4,352.48  (the total of points 1 [exc VAT],  2 and 3 above). UKI previously  paid 
Mr and Mrs R £3,294.79  in mid-December  2018.  That leaves a difference  remaining for UKI 
to pay of £1,057.69. On this amount interest should be added from 3 January  2019   this is 
the date the kitchen materials were  paid for totalling  the majority of the sum outstanding. 
I think its unlikely that all of the cost for re-fitting the kitchen would have been paid for prior 
to this date. So using the 3 January 2019  for interest  on the outstanding amount to run from 
seems fair. An amount  equivalent to VAT on £3,200 is to be paid to Mr and Mr R once they 
show they incurred  this cost.
Mr and Mrs R did not object to my findings.  UKI said it had settled in line with its policy 
terms, which allow it to settle based  on its costs.
I understand what UKIs policy  allows it to do in respect of settling claims. But UKIs policy  
doesnt apply  here as the kitchen needed  removing and re-fitting because of poor work  
completed by its contractor. Nothing  UKI has said makes me think my provisional findings in 
this respect, including my further findings  regarding  what it should  pay, were  flawed.  
Mr and Mrs R also advised that their kitchen now has to be removed again. They  asked if 
I can consider their costs  for this as part of this complaint. Unfortunately I cannot as this 
issue did not form part of this complaint. Mr and Mrs R will need to deal with UKI about this 
in the first instance.
rubbish
Ref: DRN78683366I said provisionally  UKI said this wasnt its rubbish. Having seen  the photos I think it was 
likely claim  related rubbish. UKI should  cover the cost of its removal but Mr and Mrs R 
havent been clear  whether they incurred a cost for this or not. If they did UKI will have to 
pay it, plus interest* from the date of payment until settlement is made.
Following my provisional findings, both parties have  confirmed  that the rubbish was removed 
by UKI at no cost to Mr and Mrs R. As this matter  has been resolved, I wont make any 
award in respect  of it.
grass
I said provisionally  UKI paid Mr and Mrs R to reinstate their grass following it being  
damaged by rubbish but it would  only pay for seeding, not turfing. Mr and Mrs R are 
unhappy with the finish as the old and new areas of grass are distinct. They  want  the whole 
garden re-turfing.
Ive seen the photos and Im not persuaded that the areas are obviously distinct. I bear in 
mind that rubbish could have been moved to prevent  this type of damage from occurring.
I think requiring UKI to re-turf  the whole garden would be a disproportionate response in this 
situation.
Neither party objected  to my provisional findings  in this respect. Ive no need to change  or 
move away  from them.
Mrs Rs business
I said provisionally  UKI did know Mrs R ran a business from the house.  But as this policy 
covers damage to the home, it isnt reasonable to extend any failure of UKI which occurs 
under the policy  to any loss experienced by the business. Im not going  to make UKI pay 
anything in this respect.
compensation
I said provisionally  UKI has offered £750 compensation. I think this a reasonable sum. 
UKI didnt  handle things well, work was finished  to a poor standard and Mr and Mrs R had to 
finish it themselves. Whilst Mr and Mrs R might feel that more  is required, Im not persuaded 
that requiring  UKI to pay more would be reasonable in the circumstances here and in saying  
that I note a lot of upset was caused due to the issues  that arose with Mrs Rs business. Ill 
add an award for £750 compensation here, but if UKI has paid any or all of this sum already 
it will only have  to pay anything outstanding.
Mr R wondered if my comments regarding compensation meant I was awarding a further  
£750 in addition to the £750 previously paid/offered  by UKI, this further amount being in 
respect of Mrs Rs business. 
I stated provisionally (in the section of my findings  entitled Mrs Rs business, reproduced 
above) that I was not intending  to make UKI pay anything in respect of Mrs Rs business. 
And I stated within the compensation section  that £750 total compensation was fair and 
reasonable for the upset  Mr and Mrs R had experienced due to UKIs failings. It isnt clear  to 
me if that £750  has been paid or not. If it hasnt UKI will have  to pay it now.  If it has paid it 
already it wont need to pay anything more.
Ref: DRN78683367my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R:
£8,400, as reimbursement of rent incurred between 3 September  and 27 October 2018, 
plus interest* on each  amount Mr and Mrs R paid which  makes  up this sum from the date 
paid until settlement is made.
a further £1,057.69  in settlement of the 2018/2019  kitchen reinstatement  work (making  
the total settlement for this, excluding VAT on the sum of £3,200  £4,352.48), plus 
interest* from 3 January  2019 until settlement is made.
once proof is provided that they incurred VAT,  an amount equivalent to the VAT 
charged/incurred against the estimate  for £3,200. 
£750 (total) compensation, though if this or any part of it has already been paid, only the 
amount outstanding  will now need  to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 November  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr and Mrs R, it should tell them how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs R a certificate  showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7868336