K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. These 
started in 1996.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The PPI started about 23 years ago and none  of the original documents  from the time are 
now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail  everything  that happened  so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive considered Mrs and Mr Cs comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Mrs and Mr C have said the PPI was added without their knowledge.  However it wouldnt 
be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was some  type of supporting 
evidence. It would  be more usual for the PPI to have been mentioned  in the documents 
at the time, and for the insurer to have sent a letter  confirming  this, making  Mrs and Mr C 
aware of the PPI. So, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added  
without Mrs and Mr Cs consent.  
HSBC probably didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr C as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs and Mr C to decide whether it was suitable.  (I 
realise Mrs and Mr C are sure that PPI wasnt even mentioned to them.)  But even if 
HSBC had made a recommendation,  I think it would probably  have been an appropriate  
one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being  able to pay a mortgage can cause 
significant difficulties,  and the PPI would have paid out in addition to the statutory 
sickness benefits Mrs and Mr C were and entitled  to. It would also have paid on top of 
any redundancy benefits, and possibly for longer. And it would have put off the time 
when theyd have  to fall back on savings. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they 
couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So it would have  been  potentially useful. 
Ref: DRN70713482Its hard to know how well HSBC explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mrs and Mr C took the PPI.
Its possible HSBC didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr C would have been affected  by any of these.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7071348