K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that ReAssure Limited failed  to collect  the correct  amount of premium for his 
personal pension,  and hes suffered a loss as a result. 
background
Mr G had a personal pension with ReAssure that his employer contributed  to. In May 2016  it 
collected the correct monthly contribution of £1,000. but from June onwards only half of the 
employer contribution was collected by ReAssure. 
In May 2017  Mr G became aware of the issue, and informed  ReAssure of this. Around a 
month later, when  he hadnt heard back from Reassure, he asked his employer to pay the 
missed contributions into a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) and his employer did so. 
In July 2017 Reassure spoke to, and wrote to, Mr G. ReAssure offered to put Mr G in the 
position he wouldve  been in by backdating  the investment  of the premiums to the dates due. 
But it said that it understood that he wasnt able to pay the premiums, as hed invested the 
money elsewhere. It said it couldnt  offer a sum to compensate for financial loss, as its offer 
to backdate the premiums was intended to do that. It offered £75 for his inconvenience.  It 
referred him to the Pensions Ombudsman  if he wished to take his complaint further. 
There were a series of further  exchanges  over the next year, as Mr G wasnt happy  with the 
response and wanted  to be compensated for the year his monies werent  invested.  The offer 
of compensation  for inconvenience was increased  to £100, but ReAssure still wasnt willing 
to offer any compensation for financial loss if Mr G wasnt willing to put the missed  
contributions into the pension  policy. 
In July 2018 ReAssure told Mr G that he could  refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, which it hadnt  done previously. 
In January 2019 Mr G brought his complaint to us. 
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She concluded that there hadnt 
been a financial  loss that ReAssure needed  to compensate  Mr G for based on information 
from the parties. But as there was a prospect of financial loss in the future, since  the 
performance of the investments could change, she thought the compensation ReAssure 
should pay should be increased from £100 to £200.  
Mr G reluctantly accepted  our investigators view. He had wanted to be compensated for his 
loss during the period  from when  the contributions should have been invested by ReAssure  
until when the funds were paid into the SIPP by his employer, as he didnt  see any return  on 
the funds during that time as they were in his employers account. 
He calculated his loss based on the FTSE All Share index as ReAssure refused to give him 
the unit prices for his pension investment. He provided a table  calculating  the loss at 
approximately £378. Our investigator didnt think it was reasonable to choose a specific  time 
period in the past to calculate a loss because  the monies wouldve remained invested  and 
fluctuated in value.
ReAssure didnt accept  our investigators view. It didnt think it should have to pay a further 
£100 in compensation as Mr G hadnt, at that time, suffered a financial loss and it would only 
be possible  to ascertain that in the long term  he might benefit. 
Ref: DRN79364452So the complaint came to me for decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  asking ReAssure 
to pay Mr G £200 compensation  is fair. Ill explain why. 
ReAssure doesnt  dispute that it failed to collect pension contributions from Mr Gs employer.  
In those circumstances our services general approach is to tell a business to put the 
customer in the position  he wouldve been  in if things hadnt gone  wrong.  That is what  
ReAssure originally offered to do. 
In asking his employer to put the contributions that ReAssure  had failed to collect  in a SIPP, 
Mr G took steps to mitigate his loss. He was entitled to do that. Our investigator asked Mr G 
to indicate what  the performance was of the investments hed bought  in the SIPP with the 
money representing the missed contributions. Mr G indicated that there had been  a loss on 
those investments. She also asked ReAssure to indicate how the pension wouldve 
performed if the contributions had been  taken and invested at the correct times. That 
calculation also indicated  a loss, but a greater loss than that experienced in the SIPP. So Mr 
G hadnt actually  suffered  a loss from the contributions being  directed into the SIPP.  He 
wouldve suffered  a greater loss if theyd been invested in the personal  pension. Accordingly 
there wasnt any compensation  for financial loss for ReAssure to pay.
I understand Mr G wanted to be compensated for being out of the market for a year.  But I 
agree with our investigator that it wouldnt  be reasonable  to measure a loss in that way. The 
correct way to compensate him would have  been for ReAssure to reinvest the missing 
contributions as if they had been collected on the due dates. ReAssure offered to do this, but 
Mr G had already invested the missing contributions elsewhere and the investigator  found 
Mr G was better off for having done  so. Overall, I think ReAssures offer to reinvest  the 
missing contributions was fair.
Like our investigator,  I think it fair and reasonable that Mr G receive further compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  ReAssure made errors and took time to respond  to 
him and offer redress.  Mr G took action to mitigate  his loss and his actions have meant he is 
actually in a better position than he would have been in if he had invested the contributions  
in the personal  pension.  But I have  no doubt this has been distressing and he has been put 
to some inconvenience. Overall, I think that £200 is a fair amount to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that ReAssure Limited  must  pay Mr G £200 in compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. To be clear, if it has already paid him £100 for his 
inconvenience, it must pay him a further  £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Helen Wheatley
Ref: DRN79364453ombudsman
Ref: DRN7936445