K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC recorded  negative information on her 
credit file incorrectly after it made a mistake  when she paid off her loan.
background
Miss W called Tesco  in October 2017 to ask for a settlement figure  to pay off her loan. 
During the call, payment for £10,368.42 was taken and the adviser told Miss W that her loan 
account was closed. She also told her she could cancel the direct debit payment. 
Unfortunately, there was another direct debit payment  due for £655.70 which was rejected 
because Miss W had cancelled the direct  debit.
Tesco tried to contact Miss W about the outstanding amount but werent able to sort things 
out until February 2018. Miss W then paid off the remaining sum and Tesco  waived any 
additional interest. But Miss Ws credit file showed  the payments had been missed  from 
October to February. 
Miss W complained to Tesco but it rejected  her complaint. So she came  to this service.  Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld but Tesco disagreed  and asked for 
review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I find the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Miss W made to Tesco in October 2017 and its clear she asked to 
settle the account. The adviser took a payment from her and told her the account was closed  
and that she could cancel the direct debit. Based on this conversation, I cant  see any 
reason for Miss W to question the information  she was given. She cancelled the direct debit 
in good faith and assumed the loan was paid off. In my view, the error was Tescos  as it 
shouldve told her there was another payment due. Im not persuaded by Tescos argument 
that Miss W shouldve checked on the direct debit because the adviser was very clear in the 
call that the account was closed and the direct  debit could be cancelled.
Although it took a while for Tesco to reach Miss W, as soon as she found out about the 
problem she paid off the remaining funds. Its clear  that she acted in good faith and believed 
the loan had been paid off in October 2017  as shed been told by the Tesco  adviser.
Records on a credit  file are designed  to give an accurate picture of the way a person  
manages their finances. In this case,  the negative records dont reflect  Miss Ws behaviour,  
they show that Tesco made a mistake when Miss W paid off her loan. Therefore I find that 
Miss Ws credit file should be corrected to show that she paid off the loan in October 2017 as 
she tried to do.
Discovering the negative entries  on her credit file when shed done all she could to pay off 
her loan was clearly upsetting for Miss W. Therefore  I find that Tesco should also pay her 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its error.
Ref: DRN78228522my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. Tesco  
Personal Finance  PLC should correct Miss Ws credit file to show the loan was paid off in 
October 2017. In addition,  it should pay her £150 as compensation for the upset its mistake  
has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822852