K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that MBNA Limited  should  not have increased the credit limit on her credit
card account  as the lending was both unaffordable  and irresponsible.
Mrs Bs husband represents Mrs B in her complaint. But for ease of reading  I refer to all
submissions as if they came from her even if it was him who made  them on her behalf.
background
In 2004 Mrs B applied  for a credit  card account  with MBNA. The application was successful,
and MBNA  opened  an account for her with a credit  limit of £2,000. In 2017,  MBNA
automatically increased this limit to £3,600.
At first it appeared that Mrs B was complaining about both the decision to open the account
for her in 2004  and the decision to increase  her credit limit in 2017. Mrs B suggested that the
lending was unaffordable  because at the time it was agreed,  she already had substantial
debts with other credit providers which she couldnt  afford either. Further, she suggested the
lending was also irresponsible as she at the time had a serious spending addiction.
Mrs B also suggested that MBNA let her down by not doing proper checks  before agreeing
to lend to her. She thought if it had carried out the correct checks  it would have realised her
situation and would  not have lent to her. She explained she is now unemployed and has no
means of repaying  her debts. Instead her husband is paying off her debts from his pension.
Mrs B wants  her debt to be written  off.
MBNA replied that before it lent to her in 2004,  it carried out a credit  check and its own
internal credit scoring which  included looking at the information  that she sent it. MBNA  said
that it looked at her credit file in 2017 as well as her payment history  and conduct of her
account. MBNA said that Mrs B met its internal criteria for an increased spending limit, so it
raised her limit on this basis.  It indicated it knew nothing  of her money troubles until she told
it about them in October  2018. MBNA  said it had now restricted her account and placed it
with its specialist support  team. It provided details of this team  to Mrs B. MBNAs  stance was
it had met its obligations to her including its regulatory obligations around checking  the
lending was affordable and it would  not be doing  anything further.
Dissatisfied, Mrs B came to our service. Our investigator looked  into Mrs Bs complaint. She 
didnt recommend upholding it. In short, she pointed  out that MBNA had to demonstrate  that 
it carried out checks before it lent to establish whether Mrs B could afford  the lending.  She 
also pointed out that the checks  had to be proportionate. She thought that in all the 
circumstances, MBNA  had met its obligations towards Mrs B. And she felt that MBNA had 
behaved appropriately once it became aware  of Mrs Bs addiction  and her financial 
difficulties.
MBNA accepted our investigators recommendation. Mrs B did not. In summary, she
responded to say we had misunderstood her complaint. She said she wasnt  complaining
that MBNA  had acted  irresponsibly in agreeing to open the account. Rather, the complaint is
that MBNA  hadnt  acted responsibly  in the management of the credit  account they facilitated
and controlled  over many years. And Mrs B said that MBNA had extended an addicts credit
limit when they could  see that she was only making  minimum payments towards  her credit
balance.
Ref: DRN70880622Mrs B indicated it would  have been  obvious  to MBNA that at the time it increased her credit
balance she was already over indebted.  And she suggested that if MBNA had looked  at her
spending on her account it would have  shown that she had a spending addiction. Mrs B then
told us that the account information we had sent her showed that she was struggling to
repay her debts and that from her perspective this information showed MBNA acted
incorrectly in increasing her credit limit.
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman review  her complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 11 June 2021, in which I said the 
following: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Ive considered 
amongst other things   the rules  and guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did MBNA complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mrs B
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mrs B
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did MBNA act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I think Mrs B has been disadvantaged  in any way by MBNAs  actions,  Ill go onto
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did MBNA  complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mrs B
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit,  MBNA were  required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate
assessment of Mrs Bs ability to sustainably repay  the debt. This is often referred to as an
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be
concerned with whether Mrs B could sustainably  afford the borrowing (considering  her
specific circumstances), rather  than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter, is the
risk posed  to MBNA as the lender,  or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as
an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors
such as, but not limited  to:
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
Ref: DRN70880623What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and
proportionate check ought to be.
MBNA has focused on Mrs Bs application meeting its lending  criteria, but this isnt
necessarily the same  as ensuring the lending  was affordable to Mrs Bs specific
circumstances. This is supported by the fact that MBNA has, it appears,  referred to relying
on a consumer indebtedness index using certain  information from credit reference agencies,
without the need to determine specific details of monthly income. While MBNA is entitled to
use a variety of different  sources to carry out a proportionate lending check, it shouldnt  do
so when it knows or ought to know that it is unlikely  to give an accurate picture of a particular
individuals circumstances.
When MBNA assessed Mrs Bs original  credit card application in 2004  (which I should stress
is not something Im considering as part of my decision  as Mrs B has said this isnt part of
her complaint), it asked her to confirm  her annual income which,  according to its records,
she gave as £20,000. However,  it doesnt  appear  MBNA asked for any further information
about Mrs Bs income in 2017 than what it had collected during the initial  application. And
MBNA asked no questions of Mrs B to establish what her normal monthly expenditure was. It
does however appear to have carried out a new credit check and it says it assessed her
usage of the MBNA credit  card account  too.
MBNA has shared  with us the results  of the credit check  it relied  on. Ive looked  at this and
can see that the information they relied on was primarily around whether Mrs B had been
declared bankrupt, had any current County Court Judgments,  defaulted accounts or
accounts that had recently fallen into arrears. The outcome of those checks shows  that there
was nothing of concern,  at least in respect of these specific things.
MBNA has also referred to Mrs Bs account  management in the years  prior to them
increasing the credit limit. Ive looked at the account statements and can see that Mrs B, at
least in theory, wasnt experiencing any problems in managing  the account. I say this
because regular payments were  being made without being missed and there were no other
potential signs of financial stress, for example  the credit limit being exceeded.
However, I also note that Mrs B appears to have only made  the minimum payments towards
repaying the outstanding  balance over the year before MBNA increased the limit. Simply
repaying the minimum payment each month isnt sufficient in my view to show that Mrs B
was clearly able to take on nearly double the amount of credit,  as MBNA  proposed.  It might
show for example  that Mrs B was only able to service the debt by making the minimum
payment and was not in a position to make a dent into the overall balance any more
significantly.
I am currently minded  to say that MBNA  didnt carry out a proportionate  check.  By increasing
Mrs Bs credit  limit from £2,000 to £3,600, MBNA  almost doubled her access  to credit. To my
mind, this was a significant  increase  and MBNA  was obligated to ensure that she was able
to take on this level of extra credit sustainably. I dont currently think that MBNA relying on
Mrs B making only minimum payments and determining whether or not any of her existing
accounts had been defaulted or were  in arrears was sufficient.
Ref: DRN70880624As Ive said,  MBNA needed to satisfy itself that Mrs B was able to take on a significant
increase in credit. The checks MBNA  carried out seem to indicate to me more how Mrs B
was handling  her existing credit  limit and other credit accounts.  While Mrs B may have been
able to ensure  her MBNA  account and her other credit accounts  hadnt fallen into arrears,
that didnt automatically  mean her current level of borrowing  was sustainable or further
borrowing was likely  to be. And it doesnt  appear that MBNA asked Mrs B for any more
information about her income, which bearing  in mind the gap between the original
application and the credit limit increase, was likely to have  changed, possibly significantly.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mrs B could sustainably
repay the borrowing?
I think MBNA ought to have verified what income and expenditure Mrs B had before
Increasing the credit limit. I cant be sure what evidence or information MBNA would have
used to do this. But in the absence of anything else, Ive relied on Mrs Bs bank statements
from the time which I think show what MBNA would likely have found out had it asked for
further evidence  of income and expenditure.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Bs bank  account  statements, and in particular, the transactions  that
were being  made up to two months  before  MBNA increased the credit  limit. Mrs B has
explained in her submissions to us that she had a number of credit commitments  at this time
and that MBNA should have seen that she was over indebted.
From looking  at the bank  statements, its certainly  clear that Mrs B had a number of ongoing
monthly credit commitments  as well as other normal monthly expenditure such as food and
petrol costs.  Ive counted at least 12 ongoing credit commitments, mainly from what looks
like existing credit  cards and loans. These were essential expenses,  in other  words,
expenses that Mrs B was committed to paying  each month and that by not doing so, would
lead to arrears, charges  and likely adverse  information on her credit file.
Those monthly costs  werent fixed at a certain  amount  each month which isnt surprising as
credit cards, for example,  would be used differently each month. But Ive added up an
approximate cost between February 2017 and March 2017  of at least £1,000. And that I
gather was likely  by and large minimum payments being paid as Mrs B describes.
However, I have to balance this with what else Ive seen. Ive seen weekly incomings of
approximately £650 throughout  that period of time as well as significant credits  of just under
£11,000 and just under £2,500. That left the account  in a positive balance  to quite a degree.
Ive not seen any particular evidence that these credits were being earmarked for something
specific around the time MBNA increased the credit  limit. So, it does seem  these were
available savings that could, at least in theory, have been used to repay Mrs Bs existing
commitments although it appears  these  werent anything other than a one-off credit.
However, there were  frequent weekly credits coming into the account and, as Ive
mentioned, a significant positive account  balance at that time.
I should stress that Ive not carried out a forensic  analysis  of Mrs Bs financial position from
the bank statements as it simply isnt possible to do that due to the variety of different
transactions that are shown. It does though give me a reasonable approximation of what
MBNA would  likely have  considered had they verified Mrs Bs income and expenditure.
Ref: DRN70880625Having taken into account what Ive seen, I currently dont think MBNA ought  to have come
to a different  lending  decision  had it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  when
increasing Mrs Bs credit  card limit. It appears  Mrs B had sufficient disposable income to
meet all of her existing  committed expenditure and the increased  credit limit MBNA
proposed. And while I appreciate that Mrs B has said that she had a serious shopping
addiction, I dont believe from what Ive seen that MBNA would or should have noticed
anything that would  have caused them  to seriously question Mrs Bs expenditure.
Did MBNA  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive looked at MBNAs contact notes for Mrs Bs account and can see that they stopped
interest and charges accruing on the account  very shortly after they were made aware that
Mrs B was struggling to repay. That is borne out by the account statements which Ive seen
which shows that nothing  has been added on to the account by MBNA since  November 
2018. I note also that MBNA has accepted regular reduced payments to pay the outstanding
balance since that time and has stopped  any further spending being allowed on the card.
MBNA has an obligation to treat customers who are in financial difficulties positively and
sympathetically. The actions theyve taken which Ive described  above is in my view
evidence that they considered Mrs Bs financial circumstances  fairly and in line with their
obligations.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
I asked Mrs B and MBNA to send me any further  submissions or evidence  for me to consider 
and gave them a certain period of time to do so. 
MBNA replied saying that they accepted my findings. Mrs B didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I have received  no further submissions or evidence to consider since my provisional 
decision was issued,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and decision. 
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision which  I have outlined  above, I do not 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7088062