K822xcomplaint
Mr P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains that he was mis-
sold a life policy by a predecessor of Phoenix  Life Limited. 
background 
Mr P was sold his policy in September 1980.  It provides life cover with a basic  sum assured 
of just over £9,000,  disability income  benefit  and family income  benefit  to age 55, for just 
over £20 per month. Its not reviewable and Mr P has maintained the policy  to date. 
The CMC complained to Phoenix Life that the policy had been unsuitable for Mr P as he was 
only around 24 at the time of the sale, single with no dependants. So hed had no need  for 
the cover  it provided.  
Phoenix Life didnt  uphold the complaint. It highlighted that the sale had been made before 
the introduction  of specific regulation  so it was subject to less stringent criteria.  It said that by 
taking the policy out when  Mr P was young, hed obtained the cover while he was in good 
health, which resulted  in a lower initial premium. 
It also noted that Mr P had married by June 1983, so he wouldve then had a need for the 
policy. It also stressed that Mr P had maintained this policy for just over 38 years, and while 
that wasnt relevant  to the suitability of the sale, it suggested that Mr P had probably 
understood and needed  the policy on an ongoing  basis. 
The CMC didnt accept  Phoenix Lifes view, so it referred the complaint to this service. In 
acknowledgement of Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale, our adjudicator  suggested 
that Phoenix Life offer him redress based on a full refund of the premiums  paid prior to him 
developing a need for the policy in 1983  and then in part from that point on, net of the cost of 
providing the cover, plus appropriate interest.
Phoenix Life agreed to do this. But its calculation showed that Mr P hadnt incurred a loss. 
The refund would be for just over £9,000 yet the policy had a surrender  value  of over 
£11,500. 
Mr Ps CMC  said that as the policy had been  unsuitable at the outset  he should be refunded  
the total premiums  paid,  plus interest  particularly  as doing so would be in line with Phoenix 
Lifes approach  with other similar complaints and also previous  decisions by this service.   
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  broadly accepted that it was incorrect for Mr P to be sold this policy in 1980  when  
he was a young man with no dependants,  so with no apparent  need for the cover  it provided. 
It clearly wasnt  the sort of reasonable fit for his circumstances required by the common law 
requirements of the time. 
Ref: DRN71343312What remains in dispute is how to fairly correct this nearly 40 years on, with Mr Ps 
circumstances having changed significantly in the interim and him having  maintained  the 
policy throughout. 
Ive noted what  Mr Ps CMC has said about other  decisions made previously  by this service 
and by Phoenix Life. But it will be well aware that it is my role to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable based on the specific circumstances of the complaint under consideration. 
And a consideration of those circumstances  does not lead me to conclude  that it would be 
fair for Mr P to be refunded all the premiums hes paid to the policy,  with interest. While he 
had no obvious  need for the policy at the outset, within three years his circumstances had 
changed in such  a way that suggests  this sort of cover wouldve become useful. And he has, 
from that point on, maintained the policy for 36 years.  
I think its therefore entirely reasonable to conclude,  on balance, that he has had a 
reasonable understanding of what the policy is and how it works. And moreover, a desire to 
maintain the benefits that he has seen  as useful. So, in my view, it cant be fair for him to 
have all the money hes paid to the policy back and to also still have benefitted  from the 
quite comprehensive  cover for almost four decades.  
That being  so, I think the offer agreed to by Phoenix Life fairly reflects  the overall 
circumstances and acknowledges  the error made  in making the sale of the policy  to Mr P 
effectively too early.  I say this fully aware that it appears there  will be no compensation due 
to Mr P as a result of the offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint as I consider the offer 
made by Phoenix  Life Limited to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134331