K821x#15Miss H says Provident Personal  Credit Limited trading as (Satsuma)  irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about 8 payday loans Satsuma provided to Miss H between. The loans  
were of varying terms from 13 to 52 weeks. All the loans overlapped with another  loan, for 
example Loan  2 was taken out before  Loan 1 was repaid, Loan 3 was then taken out while 
Loan 2 was running and so on.
Loan Number Date Taken Amount Borrowed Date Repaid
Loan 1 16/06/15 £500.00 17/12/15
Loan 2 05/09/15 £200.00 05/05/16
Loan 3 13/01/16 £400.00 11/08/16
Loan 4 20/05/16 £600.00 09/02/17
Loan 5 24/09/16 £100.00 24/11/16
Loan 6 01/12/16 £200.00 22/06/17
Loan 7 01/12/16 £700.00 Outstanding
Loan 8 22/06/17 £600.00 Outstanding
Satsuma, prior to the complaint being  brought to this service, decided that Loan 1 had been 
mis-sold and refunded  the interest and charges paid for this loan plus 8% simple  interest  per 
annum. It then deducted this figure  from the outstanding balance of Loan  7, which in effect 
wrote off this balance entirely and a small amount of what was outstanding for Loan 8. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Hs complaint and thought the loans from 6 onwards shouldnt 
have been given. Satsuma did not respond  and therefore the complaint was passed to me. 
As neither party disagreed with the adjudicators assessment regarding  loan 2-5 and as loan 
1 has already been refunded to the level which we would expect had we upheld  Miss Hs 
complaint about  this loan. I will only be looking at loan 6, 7 and 8.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN71316522the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history  with Miss H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Hs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought to have realised  Miss H was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Miss H had taken out 6 loans within  almost  18 months and Miss H 
had been indebted  to Satsuma continuously during this time.  
Miss H took out new loans while other  loans were still running, or she took out a new 
loan within a short time of paying one off. So, Satsuma ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss H was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying 
her previous loan was leaving  in her finances  and that Miss Hs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Miss Hs first loan was for £500  and loan 6 was for £200  but loan 4 was still running 
and on the same  day a £700  loan was also granted. At this point Satsuma ought to 
have known that Miss H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in her 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Ref: DRN71316523From  loan 6 onwards  the pattern didnt change. Miss H took out Loan 7 the same 
day, and then Loan 8 the day she repaid Loan  6.
Miss H wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma.  Loan  8 
was taken out 25 months after Miss Hs first. And it was for a larger amount.  Miss H 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Satsuma over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss H lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss H borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Hs ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  6,7 and 8 and Satsuma should put things right as 
detailed below.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss H paid on loan 6;
Add 8% interest to the refund from above
I understand that Satsuma has used a refund on Loan 1 of approximately £422  to 
offset the balance of approximately  £382 that was outstanding on Loan 7 and some  
of what remains outstanding on Loan  8. But because  I am upholding Miss Hs 
complaint about these  loans, she should not have to repay more than the capital  
amount and these  outstanding balances are made up of both capital and interest. So, 
the remaining  amount  outstanding should  be re-worked in line with this.
If all outstanding debt has been repaid 8% interest should be added to any surplus. 
But if there is still an outstanding balance then Satsuma can use the refund due for 
loan 6 to repay the amount.
the number  of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So, all entries about  loan 6, 7, 8 should be removed from Miss Hs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited trading  as (Satsuma) should pay Miss H compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN71316524Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7131652