K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs F say that they were  told at the time they took out the policy  that they had to 
have MPPI, and it wasnt optional. I cant know what was said at the time,  and Mr and Mrs F 
havent said much about  this either.  So I have to base my decision on the information I do 
have.
Lloyds has been  able to provide copies of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage and MPPI  applications   
and looking  at these  I can see that the MPPI  is presented  as an optional  product. Theres  
also nothing on this to suggest that an applications  success would be influenced by taking  or 
not taking MPPI. Mr and Mrs F have signed both applications. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt have 
to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F so it had to check  that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr F wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F has said - including  what  theyve said about the 
policy being a lot of money,   and Mrs F having just had a child so they were  reliant  on Mr Fs 
income. But had Mr F been unable  to work  due to unemployment or sickness, the MPPI 
couldve provided useful  cover for them in protecting their home, so these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN78906692Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7890669