K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Virgin Money  plc (Virgin) didnt give clear  information about when they 
could remove a promotional 0% interest rate from his credit card and didnt consider his 
reasons for being late with a payment.
background
Mr D came to us as he was unhappy  with the response hed received form Virgin when  he 
complained. Virgin didnt agree theyd acted incorrectly when removing the promotional rate. 
They told Mr D his statement dated  22 May 2018  advised the minimum payment was due on 
11 June 2018.  And as they didnt receive payment in that timescale, in line with the terms 
and conditions on the account, the 0% promotional rate was removed. Virgin said they were 
unable to reinstate  the promotional rate or to remove the charges.
Our adjudicator thought Virgin had acted  in line with their terms and conditions  when 
removing the promotional rate. And he also thought they had clearly notified Mr D of the 
clauses to the credit card so couldnt  request them to reverse  the interest  or add back  the 
promotional rate.
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  He thought it was it's incredibly unfair that 
exceptional circumstances  aren't taken into consideration for loyal customers.  He told us 
there had been  a death in the family  which was why he didnt  review  his statements for 
months, but he wasnt asked why hed missed the payment when he contacted Virgin. And 
he thought the terms and conditions were clear once  read word  for word but not obvious 
when youre not looking  for them. And he said the statements werent  emailed out so he 
didnt see the reminder  on the statement balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to view that 
this isnt a complaint which  I can properly uphold.
Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what the adjudicators already told Mr D. I 
think hes covered most points quite clearly.
The records  which  Virgin  have sent us satisfy me the information  about the circumstances in 
which they would withdraw the promotional rate, or the effect  of a missed payment would 
have, were clear. Its stated in the terms and conditions which  Mr D agreed to when  signing 
the application form. That information  is also given - twice - during the online application  
process and on each monthly  statement,  as highlighted by the adjudicator in his view. So I 
cant agree  with Mr D when he says although the terms are clear  thats  not the case when 
youre not looking for them.  Its his responsibility to read and understand them  before 
completing the application and to operate the account within them. Similarly, with 
statements, whilst these may not have been emailed out they were  available  to view. And its 
Mr Ds responsibility to check and read them each month.
Im very sorry to hear of the loss Mr D suffered around the time of the missed  payment. Im 
sure it was a difficult time for him. And I can see its a source of some  frustration  to Mr D that 
he wasnt asked why hed missed the payment given the account history.  Whilst that may 
Ref: DRN76310982have been upsetting for Mr D those enquiries  werent something  Virgin  had to do. So I cant 
say theyve done anything wrong  here by not asking.
Mr D mentioned in his original complaint to this service that the removal of the rate meant  he 
was struggling to meet the repayments.  If he is in financial difficulties I would strongly 
suggest that he formally  notifies Virgin of this so they can act appropriately. Given how 
strongly Mr D feels about what happened he may want to pursue  the matter  further  through  
other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what we  in trying to resolve  his dispute with 
Virgin informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7631098