K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that in 2016 Acenden Limited  increased her monthly repayments in relation 
to her mortgage account without reference  to her and when arrears accrued, it said it would 
take legal  action. Mr P is helping  her to bring her complaint. 
background
In 2006, Mrs P took out an interest only mortgage with Acenden. The mortgage  is for a term 
of 20 years.  There were  arrears on the account and in March  2007, a suspended  order for 
possession was granted. There were further court proceedings  and in 2010, a warrant  for 
eviction was suspended on payment of £1,000 arrears and the contractual  monthly 
repayment (said to be £390.23  at the time) plus £300 towards the arrears.
In 2011, Acenden wrote to Mrs P and told her that it had made an error in relation to her 
contractual monthly payment.  It said that it should  have  been £811.70, not £390.23. It 
refunded interest  on the shortfall and gave Mrs P options about putting  this right. Acenden  
said Mrs P could either increase the contractual monthly repayment for the remainder of the 
term or pay the shortfall in a lump  sum.
Mrs P responded to say that Acenden  had previously  told her and the court that £390.23 
was the correct contractual monthly  payment and that it should  proceed on the basis that 
shed paid in full up to the date it told her about its error. Mrs P said it would be difficult  to 
increase her monthly  payment and proposed paying an additional £100  towards  arrears.  
Ive seen from Mrs Ps account  that the contractual  monthly payment increased to £855.80  in 
September 2016 and to £914.17  in December 2017.  As arrears  continued to accrue, 
Acenden threatened to enforce the suspended  possession order.
Mrs P says that in August  2010, the judge  noted that the contractual monthly  payment  was 
£390.23. She says she wasnt aware  of the increase  to £855.80 in 2016.  Mrs P says that its 
unfair for Acenden to ask for the increased  payment after years of accepting £390.23. She 
says the mortgage is interest only and its accepted that at the end of the mortgage term the 
capital would be repaid by the sale of the house.  So, its irrelevant to say that a monthly  
payment of £390.23  wont clear the mortgage. 
Mrs P wants  Acenden to accept repayment  of £390.23 a month, which  shes  prepared to 
increase to £457. She also wants it to correct  information recorded  on her credit file. 
Ref: DRN79727002Our adjudicator didnt  think that Acenden had treated  Mrs P unfairly. She said:
Acenden doesnt dispute  that £390.23 was the contractual monthly  repayment  at the 
time of the legal proceedings in 2010.
Acenden increased the monthly payment to ensure  the mortgage was repaid at the 
end of the term. 
The payment increased because of the arrears balance, fees and charges.
Acenden wrote to Mrs P in 2011  to explain that it needed to increase her repayments 
to £811.70. Whilst  Mrs P said she didnt receive  that letter, it appears that she 
responded to it, although her repayments  remained  the same. 
Acenden didnt set up the monthly  payment correctly in May 2010,  when it should 
have increased  but that was to Mrs Ps benefit,  as her repayments were  lower than 
they should have been.
Its not open to Mrs P to negotiate about the level of the monthly repayments and the 
plan to sell the property at the end of the mortgage term doesnt  mean  that an 
arrears balance can be sustained  over a long period. 
If Mrs P thinks that her benefit entitlement has been calculated  incorrectly, she 
should take the matter up with the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).  
Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicator. Mr P responded on her behalf and said:
As this is an interest only mortgage,  there was never any intention that the mortgage 
would be paid off by the end of the mortgage term.
There have been no arrears for a number of years and thats  not the reason the 
payment has increased.  
Hes now found the letter  in response to Acendens letter  in 2011. After that letter, 
Acenden carried  on recording  that the monthly payment was £390.23.
Acenden didnt alter the contractual monthly  payment in line with base rate increases  
or decreases. 
They are preparing  for the end of the mortgage  term and the value of the property will 
repay all that is due to Acenden. 
Acenden are being unreasonable  in suddenly expecting Mrs P to pay substantially 
more than it was happy with only a month  before. 
The payment  from DWP is correct. 
Our adjudicator said she was aware that the mortgage is interest  only but the interest has to 
be repaid at redemption too. She said the repayments increased  because of a combination  
of factors. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Acenden  
has treated Mrs P unfairly. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN79727003The 2006  mortgage offer provides that until 31 May 2007, the applicable  interest rate will be, 
effectively, 1.5% above the Bank  of Englands base rate. After that, the interest rate will be 
3.5% above the Bank of Englands base rate. As this is an interest only mortgage, Acenden 
has to calculate  how much Mrs P should pay each month to repay  the interest element by 
the end of the mortgage term.
Acenden set the monthly payments too low. Its common ground that in the legal 
proceedings in 2010, Acenden said that the contractual monthly  payment was £390.23. That 
wasnt correct. 
Acenden wrote to Mrs P in 2011  and explained  that from May 2010,  it had set the 
contractual monthly repayment incorrectly. Mrs P clearly received that letter  as she 
responded to it. So, from 2011, Mrs P was aware that she wasnt  paying enough to ensure 
she repaid the interest element of her mortgage by the end of the mortgage term. 
I havent seen  anything to show that Acenden  told Mrs P about the increase in the 
contractual monthly payment  to £855.80  in September 2016 but I dont think  that alters  the 
outcome here. Thats because Mrs P was already aware that she was paying  considerably  
less than the correct  contractual monthly  payment. Ive seen that Acenden  told Mrs P about  
the increase in the contractual monthly payment to £914.17. 
The arrears  are a result  of underpayment,  arrears fees and charges. It isnt correct to say 
that there  are no arrears. Acenden hasnt received the correct amount for a number of years. 
A lender must deal fairly with a consumer  in financial difficulty.  This includes making  
reasonable efforts to reach an acceptable repayment plan with its customer. I can see from 
Acendens notes that in 2018 it asked  Mrs P about her income and outgoings and concluded 
that she had negative disposable  income. It said that she couldnt afford to pay the £457  she 
proposed and that, in any event, the £457 and the amount paid by the DWP  wouldnt  cover 
the contractual monthly payment, so the arrears would continue  to increase. 
In the circumstances here, I dont think Acenden acted  unfairly.  It isnt obliged to defer 
arrears and payment  of interest until the end of the mortgage term. 
Id urge Mrs P to get advice about her financial position. I see that the adjudicator  has given 
her contact details of an organisation that may be able to help her.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P but I dont think Acenden  acted unfairly. There  are no grounds  
on which to direct it to accept a reduced  payment or correct information recorded  on her 
credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7972700