K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold a contents  insurance policy  by First Complete  Ltd.
background
Ms W owned a property which she had arranged to let on an assured shorthold tenancy.
She was contacted on the telephone by First Complete, which is an insurance division of a
company that was managing the rental of her property.
During the conversation she was sold a policy that covered her for damage to the contents
of the apartment  which  she was renting out. That policy then automatically renewed the
following year. At some point in the second  year Ms W cancelled  the policy. She says that it
was only at this point that she realised  that the policy was for contents insurance  rather than
the protection for non-payment of rent which she thought she had. She complained  to First
Complete, saying that she hadnt  been aware  that the policy  had renewed  and didnt need
cover for contents as she had rented out the property on the basis of it being unfurnished.
She said that shed  never received any documents so hadnt been aware of what insurance
she had.
First Complete rejected  her complaint. It referred to the initial call recording which  it said
clearly showed that this was a policy for contents  cover. It argued that Ms W was clear about
this throughout  the call and that she had been  sent the appropriate documents  explaining
the policy. It also said that it had clearly  explained that the policy would be renewed
automatically and that, again, the appropriate  documents had been sent to Ms W.
Ms W complained to this service. Our investigator  took the view that First Complete  had
acted appropriately  and didnt uphold the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I took the view that First 
Complete hadnt  acted  correctly in how they had conducted the sale of the policy which  they 
accepted had been an advised sale, meaning  that they had specific responsibilities to 
identify what insurance was needed and advise Ms W accordingly.
I said that I was satisfied that First Complete would have sent documents   about the sale 
and were also likely to have issued renewal documents on the first anniversary.  I was 
unclear why Ms W had claimed that she thought  she had rental  protection insurance as 
nothing Id seen  supported that belief. But I felt that First Complete had mis-sold the policy.
I explained that I didnt think that First Complete  had properly identified  Ms Ws insurance 
needs as required  for an advised sale. And I felt strongly that the sales call had been 
inconvenient to Ms W but that shed been  unsuccessful in her attempts to delay the call 
despite asking  to do so. Shed been  in the process  of feeding her baby when  the call first 
came through. I felt that despite agreeing to proceed  she was distracted and not fully 
engaged in the call. 
I criticised the way the call progressed,  with little focus or exploration of the cover she might 
have in lace but instead, seemingly, a desire to sell a product, in this case  for contents  
protection, despite her saying that she was letting the property unfurnished. 
Ref: DRN70301882I took the view that not enough was done  to understand and assess  her insurance needs, 
that benefits of the cover  were sketchy  and not fully explored or explained, and that minimal 
benefit meant that this constituted a mis-sale.
First Complete disagreed  with my decision and made a number  of challenges. It continues to 
believe that the policy was appropriately sold in the context of Ms Ws needs at the time. 
While it concedes that it may have been  better  to call back  later due to Ms W being  busy at 
the time it argues that it wasnt inappropriate to continue the call. In that regard First 
Complete argues that Ms W was sufficiently engaged in the conversation  understand the 
decision she was making and did things to facilitate  the call continuing, such as using her 
speaker phone when she was attending to her baby. It also pointed  out that when calling her 
on other occasions, after this call, to attempt to sell her another  policy,  Ms W was constantly 
busy and unable to talk.
First Complete also argued that the cover  that was sold was of real benefit to Ms W, 
explaining that the flooring in the property could be considered  as contents and so third party  
accident protection was beneficial and appropriate. It explained that other  than this policy  
she had no protection  for any claim brought by somebody in the property for injury  caused 
by something that the landlord  is responsible  for, such as flooring. It also argued that cover 
for malicious  damage was of benefit to Ms W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont accept First Completes challenge that Ms W was sufficiently  engaged  in the call. As 
my provisional decision explained, she attempted to put off the call but was persuaded to 
proceed by the first call handler, now described  by First Complete as a lead warmer. The 
fact that she was persuaded to continue  and that she put the call on loudspeaker doesnt 
mean, in my opinion, that she was properly able to understand the details of the cover being 
offered. I do agree  with First Complete that it would have been prudent  to postpone the call. 
The fact that they later had difficulty selling her another policy  due to her obviously being 
busy is hardly a compelling argument for continuing despite her explaining  that she was 
busy feeding her baby.  If anything it reinforces the view that this was a chance to sell a 
product that the company didnt want to miss out on.
And that information  perhaps helps explain why Ms W was confused about her policys  
cover. She had previously argued that she thought shed bought rental  income protection  but 
theres been no mention of that during the call I listened to. It seems,  however, from what 
First Complete has now told me, that it was rent protection  insurance that it had been  
unsuccessfully calling  her about when she had been  busy.
I remind First Complete  that this was an advised  sale. And Im clear  that in that regard the 
call wasnt conducted appropriately  having  regard to Ms W personal circumstances at the 
time, nor in terms of actively seeking sufficient information to properly  assess, and advise 
on, her insurance  needs. That applies both to the second call handler selling the product and 
what First Complete have referred to as the lead warmer, who initiated the call. 
In the provisional  decision  I mentioned the lack of an assessment of Ms Ws demands and 
needs and said that this would usually be documented.  In that regard First Complete  have  
argued that there was no need for a statement  of demands and needs and that the 
Ref: DRN70301883requirement was only introduced  in October 2018. But insurance intermediaries such  as First 
Complete have long standing  and regulatory  responsibilities detailed within the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) including around identifying  clients needs and 
advising, specifically  under Section 5. First Complete  seek to argue that as the cover  was 
incepted at a later date there was no need for what they describe as total disclosure at the 
point of the telephone  call. 
I disagree with that contention. Its clear to me that while this contract  was formalised later,  
First Direct  had the responsibility  to perform its role as an insurance intermediary offering an 
advised sale during the telephone  call. 
First Complete argued that the element of the insurance protection against  third party  claims 
was relevant and valuable  to Ms W. It included details from guidance issued by this service  
to argue its case.  Im aware  of the guidance  and the distinction between  flooring that may be 
considered covered by either  contents or buildings insurance. I mentioned  that in my 
provisional decision. But again,  while I acknowledge that if the flooring was easily  moveable 
and installed  by Ms W then it may be considered as contents I dont  agree that the 
appropriate assessment  or advice was undertaken in establishing  the sale.  The precise 
nature of the flooring  wasnt asked  about. 
My provisional decision didnt suggest  that there was absolutely no benefit in the insurance  
provided. It said that First Complete failed to act appropriately and didnt meet the necessary 
standards when  it sold Ms W the cover. I acknowledge that there may have been some  
element of available protection  within the policy. But that benefit  wasnt properly explored or 
identified and in practice was of little real value  to Ms W.
Instead, this was a sales  call, with a lead  warmer getting past Ms Ws resistance to taking  
the call and handing over to a seller who made little meaningful assessment of the 
circumstances of any protection Ms W already had, might want, or would benefit from, but 
rather identified a justification to continue with a contents insurance  sale, based on potential 
cover for some third party claims, as the call progressed  and it became  apparent  that the 
property was being let unfurnished.
All complaints this service considers are assessed  on the information available  in the 
individual circumstances  of each case.  I do not suggest that First Completes sales  process  
is inappropriate. I take the view only that it failed to meet an appropriate standard in the 
circumstances of this case.
   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against First Complete  Ltd.
First Complete Ltd should refund  to Ms W all premiums paid by her since  inception  of the 
policy until its closure. There  should  be no penalties or fees levied against her for the policy 
or its cancellation. First Complete Ltd should  pay interest to Ms W at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum  calculated from the time at which she paid her premiums  whether by lump sum or
Instalments, until they are refunded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Ref: DRN70301884John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7030188