K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One)  has used the 
compensation due for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  associated with 
his credit card.
background
Mr M opened a credit  card account  with Capital One in October 2004. When he called to 
activate his card over the telephone, he was sold a PPI policy  to be associated  with the 
account. The PPI was cancelled in November  2005.
In 2019 Mr M complained  to Capital One that he had been mis-sold the PPI. Capital One 
didnt agree the PPI was mis-sold but it offered to refund some excess  commission that he 
had paid related  to the PPI. However, it didnt send the payment to him but said it had paid 
the compensation to his account  with Capital One.  
Mr M wasnt happy with what Capital One had said and he brought  his complaint to this 
service.
Following our investigation Capital One agreed it would fully uphold  Mr Ms complaint that 
the PPI was mis-sold. So it said it would pay him compensation  for the full costs of the PPI. 
But again  said it was paying this to a debt Mr M had on his account.
Our adjudicator said what Capital One was now doing was fair. But Mr M still wasnt  happy 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has now agreed to uphold  the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, so in this 
decision Im not considering how it came to be mis-sold to Mr M. I am looking at what  would 
be fair compensation for the mis-sale  and how this should be paid.
Capital One have been able to provide the Credit  Agreement from the date of sale and also 
all the statements that were issued for the account. I can see that the first charge made for 
PPI was on the November 2004 statement and the last in November  2005.  The total paid for 
the premiums was £25.88 (including  commission)  and the PPI caused £3.01 in interest  to be 
added to the balance. 
So this is the total amount Mr M is due to be refunded for the PPI costs plus possibly 
compensatory interest  for any periods Mr M may have been  out of pocket.
Capital One originally worked out the commission part of the payments, which  was £9.03 as 
part of the total premiums  and then after agreeing the PPI was mis-sold worked out that an 
additional cost of £16.85  in premiums was due for the remaining PPI costs.  So it has worked 
out the PPI costs in two separate calculations. But looking  at the figures overall I think  it has 
fairly worked  out what Mr M paid for the PPI in total.
Ref: DRN77170122The major dispute point  is that Mr M says the PPI compensation  should  be paid directly to 
him but Capital One says it has set it against an unpaid balance on Mr Ms account.  Mr M 
does not believe  he has any unpaid amounts still due to Capital One and has no accounts 
with that business.
Mr M does  agree he did get into problems repaying his credit  card and had arrears on the 
account which were  referred to debt collectors. But he also believes he eventually fully 
repaid everything  that was owing.
I have looked  in detail at the credit card statements provided. These show  that from opening 
the card in November  2004 until July 2005 Mr M made some payments on the account 
although not every month. But then the payments  stopped  until October 2005 when 
payments started  to be made by standing order for small amounts, less than the minimum 
payment due. 
Capital One say the credit facility was revoked in March 2006. The statements  do reflect this 
as they show  no further interest was added to the account from March 2006. The 
outstanding balance at that time was £474.23.
Between March  2006 and December 2007 standing order payments were made for small 
amounts on a semi-regular  basis until the balance outstanding was £264.24. One further 
standing order for £132.12 was made in January 2008 leaving a final balance on the account  
of £132.12.
Capital One have told us that a debt collection company did deal with Mr Ms account after 
2006 but the debt wasnt  sold.  It was agreed by the debt collection company that if Mr M paid 
50% of the balance  still outstanding at the end of 2007, no further payments would be 
required and the account would be closed.  The statements reflect  this is what  was paid and 
go on to show that the £132.12 that remained as the outstanding balance  remained unpaid 
on the account.
In effect it was agreed with Mr M he could short settle the account. So by paying 50% of the 
balance he would not be chased  for further  payments  and the remaining unpaid amount  
would be written off.
I know Mr M says he repaid everything, but that is not what  the actual records  show. There 
was £132.12 that he had borrowed  and that was never repaid. After six years  this would not 
show on his credit records so it would not affect him seeking credit  elsewhere. So based on 
the actual records  I am satisfied there  was an amount that did remain  unpaid. 
Capital One now owe Mr M a debt for the costs  of the compensation for the PPI. Although 
Capital One couldnt now chase Mr M for the debt he never fully repaid it still exists.  So its 
fair that Capital One uses the amount it owes Mr M to set against the debt he owed to 
Capital One.
The aim of compensation for mis-sold PPI is to put a consumer as far as possible in the 
position they would have  been in if they had never  taken out the PPI. In fact if Mr M hadnt 
had the PPI on his account his debt would have  been lower  as it would not have included 
the PPI. But as he never fully repaid the balance on the account this did include the PPI 
costs so in effect  he never actually paid it.
Ref: DRN77170123Taking account of all these facts  I think what Capital One has worked out and done with the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair and Im not going to tell it to do anything different. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think what Capital One (Europe) Plc has offered in 
compensation and set off against Mr Ms unpaid  borrowings is fair and Im not telling the 
business to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7717012