K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about the charges that have  been  applied to his account by FirstRand  Bank  
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo  Finance.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr N under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he signed in October  2016. He had some difficulties making the payments required 
under the agreement between May 2017 and August 2018 so MotoNovo applied charges to 
his account. He contacted  it in September 2018  to say that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties and it identified  that the agreement was unaffordable for him but no further action 
was taken Mr N complained to MotoNovo Finance about the charges but it said that theyd 
been applied  fairly because of his missed payments. He wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that it was 
clear that MotoNovo Finance  was aware  of Mr N's situation but didn't  take appropriate steps 
to help him and continued  to apply charges. So he recommended that it should remove  all 
charges applied to Mr Ns account from September 2018 until he was able to pay-off the 
arrears or had made  it aware that he was no longer in financial difficulty.
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, 
in summary, that the charges for missed  payments and notices  of default have been applied  
in accordance with its account terms and conditions and it has accepted promise to pay 
arrangements from Mr N and has agreed  to remove some fees and charges  once  the 
payments had been made but Mr N hadnt  made  the promised payments. And it says that 
Mr N wouldve been made aware  that the payments were required monthly so he shouldve 
made sure that he had kept enough  funds by for his monthly financial commitments. It says 
that if Mr N was using agency work temporarily then it would expect  the issues to have only 
lasted a short time but hes regularly fallen into arrears since April 2018 which  shows  that its 
an ongoing problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from MotoNovo Finances account  notes that Mr N contacted it about his financial 
difficulties in September 2018 and those notes  show that it had identified affordability 
concerns in October 2018 and then that this agreement seems  to be unaffordable. The 
notes show that Mr N was receiving benefits, hadnt  worked for three months and was on a 
zero-hours contract  and didnt know what work  he would get. So I consider  that MotoNovo 
Finance was aware  or ought reasonably to have been aware  that Mr N was experiencing 
financial difficulties in September 2018. 
A lender is required to respond to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to refund charges, or to take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN76185602But after being  made aware of Mr Ns financial difficulties MotoNovo Finance continued to 
apply fees and charges to his account.  And Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence 
to show that it responded to his financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Mr N has 
continued to struggle to make the monthly  payments and MotoNovo Finances requests  for 
payment have often  been returned  unpaid. Its continued to regularly apply unpaid payment 
fees and default interest  to Mr Ns account. And earlier this month the balance on Mr Ns 
account was £7,646.85  and the account  was substantially in arrears.
I consider that MotoNovo Finance shouldve done  more to assist  Mr N in dealing with his 
financial difficulties from September 2018.  And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  for it to refund to him the fees and charges that its applied  to his 
account since the beginning of September 2018.
But Mr N has continued to use the car and hes liable  for the arrears  on his account and the 
monthly payments  that he agreed to pay to MotoNovo Finance. I consider that its fair and 
reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance to seek payment  of those amounts from Mr N (to the 
extent that its legally entitled to do so). But I consider  that it should contact Mr N to try to 
agree a repayment arrangement for the arrears on his account  and the future payments that 
he has to make under the agreement. Any such arrangement must be affordable  for Mr N 
and take account of his ability to pay. 
If a repayment arrangement is agreed  but Mr N doesnt make the payments when they 
become due, its likely that MotoNovo Finance will apply late payment fees and default 
interest to his account. But if he continues to experience financial difficulties, its required to 
respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. And I order  FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.Refund to Mr N all of the fees and charges that have been applied  to his account since  
September 2018.
2.Contact Mr N to try to agree a repayment arrangement for the arrears on his account 
and the future payments that he has to make under  the agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7618560