K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has offered to compensate 
him for its mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached  to a credit card.
background
In 2002, Mr T took out a credit  card with HSBC. At the same  time he was sold PPI to protect 
his monthly card repayments  if he wasnt able to work.
In 2018, Mr T complained  to HSBC that the PPI had been mis-sold  to him. HSBC upheld  
Mr Ts complaint and offered to compensate him for this. It calculated  that it owed him 
£2,136.72 in relation to this mis-sale. But because there was still an outstanding amount on 
Mr Ts credit card account of more than this amount, it said it would use this compensation 
offer to reduce the amount he still owed  on his account rather than paying it to him directly.
Mr T wasnt happy with HSBCs offer.  He thought  that the mis-sale had contributed  to the 
severe financial difficulties  he had experienced in more recent  years. So he thinks that hes 
owed more than HSBC has offered to compensate him for this mis-sale. And he thinks  that 
the compensation shouldnt be used to reduce his outstanding credit  card balance  but 
should be paid directly to him, to help him with his current  financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought that the amount which HSBC had offered to Mr T in compensation 
for this mis-sale  was fair. And she also thought it was fair for HSBC  to use this compensation 
to reduce Mr Ts outstanding credit card debt with it. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators 
view, so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has upheld Mr Ts mis-sale complaint. So in this decision I wont  be looking at how 
the policy came to be sold. Ill only be looking at whether the way HSBC has offered to 
compensate Mr T for this mis-sale is fair.
HSBC has provided  details of how it has calculated the amount of compensation owed to 
Mr T because of the mis-sale of PPI on his credit card. It doesnt still have a full transaction 
history for his card account since the date of this sale. But this isnt that surprising given how 
long ago the sale took place. In these circumstances, we would expect a business  to 
estimate the customers outstanding monthly balances, and the PPI premiums  charged on 
these balances, for periods when this information is missing. And we would expect this to be 
done by applying fair and reasonable assumptions  to the information  for periods when it was 
available. Having looked at the way HSBC has estimated the outstanding monthly balances 
on Mr Ts card account and the PPI premiums which he was charged,  Im satisfied  that this 
was done in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ive next looked at the way in which  HSBC  has calculated the total compensation owed  to 
Mr T for this mis-sale.  HSBC needed  to put Mr T back in the position  he would have been if 
the PPI premiums hadnt been added to his card account, including  any additional  interest or 
other costs  he suffered  as a result  of these PPI premiums. And, again,  Im satisfied that 
HSBC has carried out these calculations in a way which is both fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN75007752HSBC has provided  evidence to show that Mr T still had an outstanding balance  on his card 
account of £6,574.50 when it made  its offer of compensation to him and that his account was 
in default. So Im satisfied that there  was a much larger amount still owing by Mr T on his 
card account  than the offer which  HSBC  made  to compensate him for his PPI mis-sale  
complaint. I now need to consider whether it was fair for HSBC to offset the compensation of 
£2,136.72 it offered against this outstanding debt.
As Mr T defaulted on his card account, he owed HSBC  an amount for the money he 
borrowed on the account (including interest  and other charges) which hadnt ever been paid 
back. HSBC was out of pocket for this money.  It accepted that it owed Mr T money for the 
PPI compensation  it had offered him. So it owed him a debt too. And it has set-off its debt 
for the PPI compensation against the debt Mr T still owed on his card account.
There is in law what is called the equitable right of set-off which  allows people (and 
businesses) to set-off  closely  connected debts. This means that one person  (A) can 
deduct from a debt they owe another  person  (B),  money which that person (B) owes  to 
them.
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection  between  
the PPI compensation offered to Mr T and his outstanding debt to HSBC. I must also 
consider whether it would  be fair for HSBC to use set-off in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that HSBC  has an equitable right to set-off  the PPI compensation in 
the way it has.
The PPI sold to Mr T was directly connected  to his credit card account. Using the right of set-
off I have outlined  above, Im satisfied the PPI compensation and the outstanding card 
account debt are closely connected. They are both related to the same account Mr T had 
with HSBC. And I havent seen any compelling  evidence to show  that Mr T had more 
pressing needs  for the compensation than reducing  the arrears on this debt. So I think  its 
fair for HSBC to use the compensation  its offered to reduce his outstanding card account 
balance in the way it proposes to do.
In any event, part of the outstanding debt Mr T owes on his credit  card account is for PPI 
premiums that were added to the balance but which Mr T has never  paid. So if HSBC paid 
the compensation directly to Mr T, hed be receiving compensation for PPI premiums that he 
never paid.  And I dont  think  that would be fair.
Ive thought about what Mr T has said about  the PPI mis-sale contributing  to the financial 
difficulties that he is now experiencing.  And I can understand that these  difficulties are 
distressful for him. But I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude  that this PPI mis-sale 
was a significant cause of these  difficulties and that, as a result, hes owed more  in 
compensation from HSBC  than it has offered.  So whilst  I fully recognise that this will be a 
disappointing outcome for Mr T, I still think that the amount of compensation offered is fair 
and reasonable.  And I dont think HSBC has done anything  wrong  in offsetting this 
compensation against the amount of credit  card debt which  he still owes.
Ref: DRN75007753my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7500775