K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a car supplied  to him by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In May 2018  Mr D entered into a contract  hire agreement with VWFS.
Mr D experienced issues  with the brakes within the first 30 days.  He contacted  the 
dealership but it wasnt able to look at the car straightaway.  Mr D contacted VWFS  to 
complain. He said he wanted to reject the car because it was faulty and that he wouldnt be 
paying his initial rental payment because of the fault.
The car was returned to the dealership in June 2018. The dealership said it was unable to 
find a fault but it cleaned  and refitted  the brake  pads.
Mr D continued to experience issues with noisy brakes and told VWFS he wanted to reject 
the car.
In October  2018 the car was returned to the dealership again. The front brakes were found 
to be squeaking  and the front brake pads were changed. Mr D continued to complain to 
VWFS.
In its final response VWFS said that because no fault had been found, it wouldnt accept 
Mr Ds request to reject  the car. As a goodwill gesture VWFS offered to waive one months  
rental from the arrears  on the account.  VWFS  gave Mr D 14 days to pay his arrears before it 
terminated the agreement for non-payment.
Mr D refused to make  any payments as he believed the car was faulty.  VWFS repossessed 
the car.
Our investigator thought that Mr D had the right to reject the car. She said that under the 
relevant law the car should be free from minor defects  and that squeaking brakes were a 
defect. The investigator  also said that the business  had the opportunity to fix the issue  but 
that the attempt at repair wasnt successful.  She recommended that Mr D should  only be 
liable for his monthly payments  up to the point  where the car was returned to VWFS, and 
that he shouldnt  be liable  for anything  subsequent  to the termination of the agreement.
VWFS didnt  agree. It said there hadnt been  an attempt at repair in June 2018 because  no 
fault was found and there was nothing  to repair. It acknowledged that a fault was found when 
the car was returned to the dealership  in October  2018 but said that the repair had been 
successful and that there were no grounds  to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied  the car under a contract  hire agreement, theres  an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purposes 
specified, appearance and finish, freedom  from minor defects, safety  and durability. I would 
Ref: DRN71153282expect a brand new car such as the car supplied to Mr D to be of a very high standard  as 
compared to a used car where I would  expect to see a degree of wear  and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first six months, its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one opportunity to 
repair the car. If the repair is unsuccessful,  the consumer can reject  the car.
In this case, Mr D experienced issues with the brakes squeaking within a short time of the 
point of supply.  The car was returned  to the dealership in June  2018  and although  the 
dealership has said it didnt find a fault, it did acknowledge  that the brakes were squeaking. It 
tried to resolve this by stripping  down the front brakes, cleaning  all the surfaces and 
deglazing the surface of the brake pads.
This didnt  resolve  the issue and the car was returned  to the dealership  again in 
October 2018. On this occasion the dealership  found a fault with the brakes  and replaced  
them.
Although VWFS has said that no fault was found in June 2018  and that the fault was 
successfully repaired in October 2018,  I dont agree. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds testimony  about squeaking  brakes has been consistent throughout. I dont think  that a 
reasonable person would expect to experience  squeaking brakes  on a brand new car. 
Although the dealership has said it couldnt find a fault, the cars history states that the 
brakes were  found to be squeaking when the car was returned to the dealership  in 
June 2018. I dont think the dealership would have  taken  steps  to strip down the brakes in 
June 2018 if it didnt think there was an issue. Because of this, Im satisfied that the work 
carried out in June 2018 amounted to an attempt  at repair.
The car was returned to the dealership again  in October 2018  with the same issues. The 
cars history shows that the technician confirmed that the front brakes were squeaking. Im 
satisfied that because exactly the same  issue occurred as before, the first attempt at repair 
in June 2018 was unsuccessful.  Under  the relevant legislation, Mr D is entitled to reject the 
car in these circumstances.
Ive taken into account the comments made by VWFS that Mr D gave permission for two 
attempts at repair. But Im not persuaded that this was the case. Mr D requested to reject  the 
car after the first attempt  at repair but his request  was declined. In the circumstances I dont 
think its fair to say that Mr D gave  permission for a second attempt at repair.  I dont think he 
was given a choice of whether to reject  the car or accept a second repair because his 
request to reject had already  been declined.
Taking everything into account,  I think that Mr D shouldve been allowed to reject the car 
after the unsuccessful  repair  in June 2018.  I dont think VWFS acted fairly in declining  Mr Ds 
request to reject the car. That said, I can see that Mr D used the car right up to the point 
where the agreement  was terminated  for non-payment, so I wont  be asking VWFS to waive  
the monthly rental payments  which  Mr D was obliged to make.  However, I dont think  Mr D 
should be liable to pay any charges which arose  post termination.
Mr D stopped making monthly  payments  because he wanted to reject  the car due to the fault 
with the brakes.  Ive explained above why I think Mr D shouldve been allowed to reject the 
car after the first attempt  at repair was unsuccessful. In the circumstances I dont think  it 
would be fair for adverse  entries to be registered  (or remain registered) on Mr Ds credit  file.
Ref: DRN71153283my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must:
Pursue Mr D only for his monthly  payments up to the date of termination of the 
agreement with nothing to pay beyond that date
Remove any adverse  entries relating to the agreement  from Mr Ds credit  file
If Mr D is unable to pay the outstanding  payments immediately, I would expect VWFS  to 
agree an affordable payment plan with him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7115328