K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly  cancelled  his car insurance  
policy. 
background
Mr F bought  a car insurance policy with Tesco  Underwriting.  He regularly missed the 
monthly payment  when  it was due  but up until August 2018 hed paid the premium before 
Tesco carried out the cancellation  of his policy for late payment. 
However, in August 2018, Tesco gave Mr F notice  it would cancel his policy on 31 August 
2018. As Mr F didnt  pay the outstanding premium  originally due on 5 August 2018  
Tesco cancelled his policy. 
Mr F complained. He said he got paid toward the end of the month and this was why he paid 
the premium late. Hed been able to do this for several months  before  so couldnt 
understand why Tesco  wouldnt allow him to make the August payment in the same  way. 
Mr F said hed made an arrangement with Tesco to pay his premium at the end of each  
month. 
Tesco said it had no record of Mr F asking  it to change the collection date. It said it had 
followed its cancellation process correctly. 
Our investigator said that it had been fortunate  that Mr Fs policy hadnt cancelled  in earlier 
months due to late payment: the only reason why this hadnt happened was because Tesco 
hadnt processed its cancellations  immediately  and Mr F had then paid the balance.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said there was a payment  agreement in place.  So the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Tesco has provided  recordings  of key calls it had with Mr F. There isnt anything to show 
Mr F asked  it to change the collection date.  If there  was, I would have expected  Tesco to 
have made  a reasonable adjustment. 
I understand Mr F is disappointed  that Tesco cancelled his policy  in August 2018. But it gave  
Mr F sufficient notice  that it would do this by 31 August 2018 if he didnt pay the premium he 
owed. The fact that his policy hadnt  cancelled in previous months  due to late payment was 
in Mr Fs favour. But had Tesco cancelled his policy in earlier months  once it gave notice, it 
was entitled to do this as Mr F didnt pay the premium he owed on time. 
So I think Tesco acted reasonably when it cancelled Mr Fs policy.  This means  I think it can 
request the balance  Mr F owed on cancellation. I think it should  agree a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr F for the balance. 
Ref: DRN78719312my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871931