K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the actions of Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APSL) 
when they were the victims of a scam.
Mr P has done all the correspondence in relation to this complaint. So for ease of reading, Ill 
mostly refer only to him. 
background
On 21 December 2018 Mr P was contacted  by someone claiming to be from a government  
department. The person  on the phone was unfortunately a fraudster and tricked  Mr P into 
transferring £6,847 from his and Mrs Ps account with his own bank H to the fraudsters 
account with APSL.  Mr P thought at the time that he was paying a legitimate bill.
Mr P complained to APSL. He was unhappy that they were unable to refund the payment 
and that their customer had been  able to defraud him. He also didnt think they had 
completed a thorough fraud investigation  into their customer. 
APSL responded to the complaint. They said they would  co-operate fully with any 
investigation by Mr Ps bank or the police.  But they didnt think theyd done  anything wrong 
and didnt uphold  his complaint.
Mr P referred the matter to our service.  One of our investigators explained that our service 
couldnt consider  all of the complaint points because Mr P wasnt eligible to complain in 
relation to the fraudsters account  with ASPL. And to the extent that we could consider his 
complaint, he didnt think it should  be upheld.  
As he disagreed, Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. Ive already issued 
a jurisdiction decision, in which I explained our service is only able to consider the complaint  
about the extent  to which APSL co-operated with Mr Ps bank H in their efforts to recover  
the funds. I also explained  to both Mr P and APSL why I wasnt intending to uphold the parts  
of his complaint  I could  consider.
I said: Ive gone on to consider how well APSL  have complied with their obligations to co-
operate with H to try to recover Mr Ps funds. In short,  the following timeline provides a good  
illustration of events. 
21 December 2018
            1434 hours  Mr Ps payment for £6,847 arrives in the fraudsters account.
            1539 hours  a withdrawal was made for £3,500.
            1545 hours  a withdrawal was made for £5,870.
            1637 hours  a withdrawal was made for £1,500 leaving a balance of 31 pence. 
            1709 hours  APSL are first made  aware  of the fraudulent  transaction in Hs email. 
22 December 2018
            Fees are applied  to the fraudsters  account   leaving a negative  balance. 
            
27 December 2018
            APS report to HSBC that there are no funds left in the fraudsters account. 
Ref: DRN78834882Taking this into consideration, all bar 31 pence of Mr Ps money was gone from the 
fraudsters account  before the transaction was reported to APSL. So even if APSL  had acted 
immediately and secured the account within seconds of receiving that email, the most Mr P 
might have been able to recover  is 31 pence.
And having reflected on that point,  I think its unlikely that Mr P would have instructed his 
bank to try to recover the 31 pence,  given it is such a small amount. I dont underestimate 
what an unpleasant  experience being the victim  of a scam  is. But for me to be able to direct 
APSL to refund  Mr P, Id need to be persuaded that theyd failed to co-operate  with H and 
that this had negatively impacted on his ability to recover the funds.  As the timeline 
demonstrates, that isnt the case here. 
So Im not intending to uphold the complaint or to direct that APSL need to take any further  
action.
APSL didnt  respond  with any new evidence or comments for me to consider. Mr P didnt 
initially respond with any new evidence or comments. He later added  that he would still like 
me to issue  a decision and that he felt Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles  hadnt  
been followed by APSL.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr Ps strength of feeling on 
the matter, but I dont  think there  is evidence to support that APSL have failed to adhere  to 
the relevant FCA principles. And taking everything  into account, Im not persuaded to deviate 
from the outcome  Ive previously outlined. I remain satisfied that Mr Ps ability to recover his 
funds wasnt negatively  impacted as a result of any acts or omissions that APSL are 
responsible for and that Im able to consider in relation to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7883488