K820x#14complaint
Ms A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Ms A took out a mortgage  with Halifax. At the same time, she took out a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The plan included a PPI element,  which included cover  
for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The plan also included life cover  and critical 
illness cover.  Ive only considered the PPI element  of the plan here.  Ms A paid a monthly  
premium for the TMPP. The PPI element of the plan would have covered her monthly 
mortgage payments  for up to 24 months  per successful claim for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time that's passed, Halifax no longer  has copies of all the documents  that 
Ms A signed when she took out the mortgage and TMPP. I don't think  that's surprising  or 
unreasonable, given  that the sale took place so many years ago. In cases  like this, 
where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide  what  I thinks  most 
likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
I can't know  exactly what  was discussed  when  Ms A took out the TMPP. It wouldn't  be 
reasonable to expect her to remember exactly what  was said so long ago. So what she 
says about what  happened  isn't enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  the 
complaint.
Ive borne in mind  that Ms As mortgage  was a major financial commitment,  due to run 
for a long period  of time.  Her property  would have been at risk if she didnt keep her 
mortgage payments up to date.  The PPI cover provided a dependable means  of 
ensuring that her monthly mortgage  repayments  were protected  if she was off sick or lost 
her job. Ive also borne in mind  that were not aware of any known issues  with the way 
Halifax sold these  policies at the time.
I acknowledge that Ms A says PPI wasnt discussed during the meeting, and she wasnt 
aware it had been applied to her mortgage account.  But based on the limited evidence 
I have, I cant fairly conclude that the policy was added without her consent. On balance, 
I think its more  likely that they Halifax made Ms A aware  that the policy  was optional, 
and that she chose  to take it.
Ref: DRN72451442Ms A says Halifax  didnt give her advice or recommend that she take out PPI. But the 
sale took place  in a branch of the bank, and Halifax says it did recommend the policy. 
For the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed thats right. This is to Ms As advantage, 
as it means that Halifax had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for her. 
But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Ms As 
circumstances at the time.
Ms As told us she was working  in a very secure job in the public sector  when she took 
the policy out. She told us shed have been  entitled to six months full pay, followed by 
six months half pay if shed been off sick. And if shed been made redundant, shed have 
received generous redundancy  pay. But the policy would have paid out for up to 24 
months if shed made a successful  claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment.  Thats 
significantly longer  than Ms As told us shed have been  entitled to full sick pay for. 
I acknowledge that after the adjudicator issued his view, Ms A told us that she had a job 
for life, and would always have been able to transfer into another role if shed been 
made redundant. But Ive explained  that Im satisfied, on balance,  that Ms A chose to 
take out the PPI. So it looks as if she wanted the cover,  even if shes understandably  
forgotten that now, so many years  later.  And the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any payments Ms A received from her employer. So she could have used those  to meet  
other day-to-day expenses. Taking  everything  into account I think the policy  could have 
been useful for Ms A, especially as shes  told us that aside from her employee benefits,  
she didnt have  any other means she could have used  to make her monthly mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work.
It may be that Halifax could have  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
the cover  was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Ms A 
couldnt afford it. So even if it Halifax had given  Ms A better  information  about the cost of 
the policy, I think shed  still have bought it.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions). But from what  shes  
told us about her circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Ms A would  have been  affected 
by any of these. So I think its unlikely that better information would have made  Ms A 
change her mind about the policy. On balance, I think shed still have taken it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7245144