K821x#15complaint
Mr R wanted to move his UK personal  pension plans to a Qualifying  Retirement Overseas  
Pension Scheme (QROPS) in Australia. But hes unhappy about delays which he says 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  caused. 
He says the delays mean  he will have to pay considerably higher tax charges and that hell 
also lose out due to a less favourable exchange rate. 
background
Mr R emigrated to Australia from the UK a number of years ago. In March  2016, he turned 
65 and wanted  to move his two Phoenix  UK pensions to his Australian pension arrangement.  
Importantly, he wanted to do this before the end of the Australian financial year  30 June 
2016  as he says this was the last chance he had to do it before having  to pay additional 
tax.
Knowing things  like this take time, Mr R first called Phoenix from Australia in March  2016  
giving himself around three and a half months  to have his funds moved. On the first call, 
Mr R requested details of his two plans and asked for an information pack to be sent out. 
Phoenix wrote to him on two separate occasions  with the information  it sent a letter  
regarding the first policy within a week of the request, but it took six and a half weeks to send 
a letter  regarding the second  policy. The letters explained Phoenix would need Mr Rs 
identification, transfer forms, a declaration, a HMRC  form (APSS263) and a QROPS  
acceptance letter from the receiving scheme  (confirming that it met with HMRCs  approval).  
Eight weeks after his initial  enquiry  and soon after he received the second  letter,  Mr R called 
Phoenix again. He wanted to find out what  identification was required and whether he could 
send this by email. 
A week later, Phoenix received Mr Rs identification  but he hadnt sent back  any of the 
forms they needed. Mr R had asked for a phone call if there were any issues  (given the 
delays associated with sending post around the world), but Phoenix wrote back  to him 
instead. Phoenix clarified what  it needed  but forgot  to mention the APSS263 form. 
In early June 2016, twelve weeks after his initial enquiry,  Phoenix  received Mr Rs forms. But 
something was missing for both of the plans. Phoenix wrote  back  to Mr R about this  it took 
a week to send  the letter  regarding the first policy, and another  few days to send the second 
one.
Mr R received the letters and called Phoenix on 21 June. Conscious of the looming deadline 
only seven days away, he told Phoenix  about the consequences of any delay and asked 
whether the final bits could be emailed to save time. Phoenix agreed and received the 
necessary information  from Mr R the next day. But it then took them two days  to scan  the 
forms onto their systems, and another  three  days to have them considered  by another 
department (as this spanned the weekend). 
By this time, it was Monday 27 June. Worried about the repercussions  of both missing  the 
deadline and the falling  value of Sterling after the UK referendum to leave  the 
European Union (Brexit), Mr R told Phoenix to stop the transfer and made a complaint to 
Phoenix about the delays. 
Ref: DRN77136592Phoenix agreed it couldve done things  better  and offered Mr R £400 compensation for the 
errors. But it didnt agree  it should be responsible for any other  implications as transferring 
the pension abroad wasnt something Mr R had to do as a result  of emigrating. And it 
pointed out Mr R stopped the transfer due to Brexit  so it was his choice to miss the 
deadline. Phoenix also queried Mr Rs interpretation of the Australian  tax rules and 
suggested theyd  changed, so Mr R would always have to pay more tax than he thought.  
Mr R remained  unhappy. Phoenix  spent some time trying to get him information and 
answers. As their final response didnt resolve  things to Mr Rs satisfaction,  he came  to our 
service. His concerns were considered by one of our investigators  who agreed Phoenix  had 
caused delays.  To put things right, she recommended Phoenix put Mr R into the position  he 
should have been in had the transfer gone  through before the deadline   and used 
31 May 2016 as a possible completion date. As working this out isnt very straightforward,  
our investigator spent some time considering this aspect. Eventually, she felt there would be 
an identifiable currency loss, but that an impending  tax bill perhaps  wasnt so certain so 
Phoenix shouldnt  be responsible for that.
Both sides remained unhappy. And both sides went to great efforts  to explain their take on 
what happened and what should be done.  As our investigator wasnt  able to get things 
resolved informally, the complaint was referred  to me for a decision.
As I wanted  to add more to what our investigator  has said, I issued provisional  findings:
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am minded  to 
uphold the complaint. Whilst my reasons for doing  so are broadly similar to that of 
our investigators, Id like to expand on whats been said so far and explain what  I 
think should be done to put things right. I will however still remind both parties that 
these are my provisional findings and subject to the responses I receive  within the 
next month,  they may well change. 
Throughout the course of our investigation,  substantial submissions have been made 
by both parties which I am very grateful for. A number of issues have been raised 
and a number  of sources cited, particularly by Mr R, but I trust he will understand that 
I may not address all of them and instead consider  those relevant to my decision.  I 
have paid significant attention to all submissions and have done my best to verify 
their contents. 
Mr R set up a self-managed super  fund in Australia. Ive had a look into it and it 
appears it met Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC)  requirements for a 
QROPS, meaning its able to receive  UK pension benefits.
Mr R began the transfer process by calling Phoenix  on 10 March 2016. He wanted 
his money to move by the end of June 2016,  so hed allowed himself around three 
and a half months to get things sorted. QROPS transfers arent straightforward and 
can take time  particularly as although Mr R had taken some  financial advice, he 
was acting for himself  when dealing with Phoenix. There  are several  requirements  
and deadlines  to meet, so whilst Mr R may have thought  he had plenty of time, it 
passed very quickly.
Ref: DRN77136593During those three and a half months, there were times where both parties  could 
have done more to speed things up. For example, Phoenix sent a transfer pack out 
for one policy  within  a week of Mr Rs initial call, but took more  than six weeks  to 
send the second pack for the other policy. Although this was a delay on Phoenixs 
part, Mr R could have chased it up. There were another  five or so occasions where 
Phoenix either made errors in telling Mr R what it needed from him or where it could 
have communicated  by email rather than letter. And there was an occasion  where  Mr 
R didnt send what was asked of him. 
On balance, although Mr R could have done more to get things moving,  I think 
Phoenixs actions  or omissions ultimately  caused more delays than those of Mr Rs. 
During our investigation, Phoenix agreed  that had things gone smoothly, a possible 
completion date could have been 31 May 2016. This means the process  would have 
taken two and a half months  which seems reasonable  given  my understanding of the 
steps required in issuing transfer packs,  clarifying  what was needed by telephone, 
submission and verification of forms and any declarations to be received. It is for this 
reason that I am inclined to agree with what was both suggested  by our investigator 
and loosely agreed by Phoenix   that a transfer could have been completed by 31 
May 2016. 
In thinking about what this may mean for compensation, Ive been mindful of the 
significant consequences Mr R says flow from Phoenixs delays and errors which on 
their own,  could be considered as relatively minor events. Whilst Phoenix wasnt  Mr 
Rs adviser, it has more experience with this sort of thing than Mr R does  so it could 
have better  managed his expectations  around  the steps required. Phoenix  was also 
aware of the deadline and I think its fair to say they could  reasonably  have realised 
delays couldve resulted in some  loss to Mr R. 
I can understand that Phoenix might think  this feels wrong or that its being asked to 
pay Mr R a lot of money for something  it doesnt  think is its fault. But Ive got to 
decide if there are acts or omissions for which  Phoenix  is responsible. Ive said there 
are. And having decided that, in simple terms, Ive then thought  about if its 
reasonable for me to say that what Mr R is asking for will put him back  in the position  
he would  have been in if he hadnt  received  a poor service.
Mr R says he ought to be compensated  for this as hes lost out on the exchange rate 
and hes going  to have to pay more  tax on the incoming funds. But Phoenix have 
said that firstly, theres no identifiable loss yet and secondly that the consequences  
are Mr Rs seeing as he cancelled the transfer on 27 June 2016 through  fear of 
missing the tax deadline and the turbulent effects of Brexit. 
Regarding Phoenixs  first point, I agree that the difficulty  we have is that Mr R doesnt 
yet have a crystallised  loss as hes not made the transfer. Despite  this, it does seem 
likely he is going to incur  a loss. Mr R says hes got to pay around  47% tax plus a 2% 
levy on the incoming funds seeing  as the tax deadline was missed.  And he says had 
things been done on time,  the tax would been  15%. The exchange  rate has moved 
too, so there may be impact here also. And then theres likely to be a change in the 
fund values. So whilst it isnt something we can identify now,  there is likely to be a 
loss so Ill consider  that again below.
Regarding Phoenixs  second point, I dont think Mr Rs cancellation should make any 
difference here. Im minded to say the transfer could have been sorted by the end of 
Ref: DRN77136594May 2016. So what happened after that isnt significant  Mr R wouldnt have had to 
cancel the transfer as it would have already been done. For this reason,  I dont  think 
his decision should  have any bearing  on what we should now do to put him in the 
position he should have been in. 
Despite this, as the transfer remains outstanding,  this makes things tricky for my 
decision  any awards I make should be clear and direct, not open-ended  or 
unknown. But as much  as Id like to work with an identifiable loss, I do understand 
that Mr R would have  been hesitant  to push the transfer through whilst the complaint 
was ongoing with an unknown outcome. Ive set out below what  I think should be 
done to put things right  but as Ive said before, there are provisional findings  so 
could be changed  for various reasons or if we find a simpler method. 
And my comments on what I thought fair compensation would be were:
I consider that 31 May 2016 was a reasonable date that the transfers could  have 
been completed, so my aim is to put Mr R as close to the position he would  have 
been in as I can. 
This may not be an exact  science,  but I think the best way to resolve the matter 
would be to use this date as a benchmark  for us to compare what  happens when Mr 
R does complete the transfer against  what would have happened if it was done on 
time. 
In order to do this, I suggest  we decide on the position  Mr R would have been in by: 
taking the transfer value  of Mr Rs two plans as at 31 May 2016
converting these to AUD using the exchange rate as at 31 May 2016
taking off 15% for tax 
applying the growth  rate of Mr Rs Australian  pension fund on this figure from 
31 May 2016 until as close  to the actual transfer date as reasonably possible 
 but upon the condition that this is evidenced  for Phoenix 
Whatever this figure amounts to can then be compared against  what does in fact 
happen once the transfer is complete. I recognise  this creates uncertainty for both Mr 
R and Phoenix.  So I suggest that any transfer is completed within three months  of 
the date of my final decision. 
I dont expect this to be the case,  but for avoidance of doubt, should Mr R not do 
everything he can to meet  this deadline,  he is to be considered as accepting of his 
current position and no compensation will be due. 
Once the transfer is underway, the parties ought then to be able to see:
what the transfer value of the plans is on the actual date
what the AUD exchange rate is on the actual date
and whether the transfer incurs 49% tax as suggested
If a May 2016 transfer plus growth from the Australian funds amounts to more than 
Mr R gets from the transfer now, Phoenix  should make good this loss. I am unsure as 
to whether or not Phoenix will be able to pay any compensation into the QROPS.  So 
I intend to direct Phoenix to make any payment directly to Mr R. The compensation 
Ref: DRN77136595will need  to be adjusted  to allow for any tax charges that Mr R would have suffered 
had the transfer  been  made  into the QROPS in a timely manner. That adjustment  
should allow  for any tax-free cash  he could  have taken and the income  tax he would 
have paid on any income taken over time.  The payment would  have no liability to UK 
income tax but it should be adjusted to allow for any Australian tax charge that Mr R 
might incur  because payment is made  outside of the QROPS.  Mr R will need to 
provide evidence of the tax charges he would have incurred in respect  of the QROPS  
and, if any, the compensation  payment.  
Given that the redress I propose  doesnt yet have  an identifiable date for settlement, 
Im unable to direct  Phoenix to settle with Mr R within any specific  timeframe. For this 
reason, I intend on asking  Phoenix to make  any payment due to Mr R within 28 days  
of him providing it with the information required to calculate what it owes. Any delay 
thereafter on Phoenixs part will attract additional  interest on whats  owed at 8% 
simple per year to date of settlement. 
It may be the case that Mr Rs UK funds have  grown in the 21 months  theyve 
remained invested. So the comparison suggestion  I have made above will take 
account of this and may well go some way to reducing any tax bill Phoenix needs  to 
help with. 
Before our service was involved with Mr Rs complaint, Phoenix had offered him 
£400 compensation for the delays and its handling  of the matter. Im satisfied this is a 
reasonable sum in respect of these points and if it wasnt  accepted  by Mr R at the 
time, I think the offer should remain  open. But I also recognise Mr R has been  very 
worried and troubled  by whats happened. Hes been concerned about a large  tax bill 
depleting what hes got saved for his retirement  so Id suggest  a further £200 
compensation for this.
Mr R accepted my provisional  findings,  and provided  some comments  which  have been 
shared with Phoenix. However,  Phoenix initially didnt agree, and said in summary:
they accepted that Mr Rs pension could have been transferred on 31 May 2016   
and that they could  reconstruct that position using the methodology I suggested of 
converting them to AUD,  taking off 15% of tax and applying Mr Rs Australian 
pension fund growth rate.
but they didnt agree  that we should compare  the above  with what Mr R ends up with 
when he does transfer. That was because Mr R made the decision to stop the 
transfer, so he should  be responsible for the implications and that he could have had 
the transfer sorted by now.
their interpretation of the tax deadline  was that it was Mr Rs 65th birthday, rather  than 
the end of the financial year in which he turned 65. They suggested that as a transfer 
couldnt have  been done before then,  they shouldnt be responsible the tax issues.  
the submissions from Mr Rs advisor were not tailored to his circumstances.
Ref: DRN77136596I wrote  to Phoenix on separate occasions to respond to some of their concerns. My 
comments were  also shared with Mr R. In short, some of the points I covered off were:
that I appreciated they were not expected to be Australian tax experts   and that this 
is why my proposed  redress  was a comparison approach, which  I felt was safer  than 
making any assumptions or attempting to calculate ahead  of the transfer. 
from what Id seen,  Mr R had until 30 June  2016  to complete the transfer   not his 
65th birthday. 
that it was up to Mr R as to if and when he transferred his pension, and that I thought 
the three and a half months Mr R gave himself to get things sorted  was a reasonable 
amount of time.  
although Mr R stopped the transfer,  Phoenixs  delays  meant  the end of tax year 
deadline had been missed anyway   so I didnt think Mr Rs actions were as 
important as Phoenix suggested.
Id found six or so occasions where Phoenix  had either made an error or been 
inefficient. And although I recognised Mr R had made a mistake too, I thought that on 
balance, the actions of Phoenix  caused more of a delay than anything Mr R did. And 
indeed, Phoenix  had already agreed 31 May 2016 was a possible completion date.
I considered Mr Rs submissions around  what detriment he expected to incur  and Id 
suggested a comparative  remedy to allow for this  especially as there are a number  
of moving parts  involved. 
Id asked Mr R some questions about the technicalities of receiving any 
compensation  thats so I could try to account for how the Australian authorities  
would view any payment  to him. He explained  compensation  will be treated in the 
same way as the underlying asset and attract tax as income. 
Phoenix later accepted  my provisional findings,  but queried the time limit Id suggested.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
decision I dont intend to depart from it, so I am asking Phoenix to compensate  Mr R for the 
delay in transferring  his plans to his QROPS.
Regarding the time limit that Id suggested for the transfer, my provisional decision said:
 I recognise [the unidentified loss] creates uncertainty  for both Mr R and Phoenix.  
So I suggest that any transfer is completed within three months of the date of my final 
decision. 
I dont expect this to be the case,  but for avoidance of doubt, should Mr R not do 
everything he can to meet  this deadline,  he is to be considered as accepting of his 
current position and no compensation will be due. 
Ref: DRN77136597I added the three month condition because Im very aware were working with an unknown 
loss. I didnt think it would be fair if Mr R were to accept  the decision but then transfer at his 
leisure  this could  leave  Phoenix with an unknown outstanding liability on their books for 
quite some time. I also didnt think it would  be unfair  to expect Mr R to take action to initiate 
the transfer relatively swiftly either,  assuming that he still wants to transfer. 
So for the avoidance of any doubt  Im asking Mr R, if he still wishes  to transfer, to do 
everything he can to complete the transfers within three months of today. But if, for example, 
the transfers complete after the three months but any delay isnt attributable  to actions or 
omissions of Mr R himself or anyone acting on his behalf, then it is to be considered that 
Mr R did everything he could and compensation will still be due.  Delays  outside  of Mr Rs 
control might, for example, be caused  by Phoenix or another party  involved (such as the 
receiving scheme). Also outside of Mr Rs control  will be the usual timescales  required for 
things like handling and processing  so anything inherent to the transfer process that Mr R 
cannot influence  will also be something  thats  not attributable to him and compensation will 
still be due.
fair compensation
As detailed  in my provisional findings,  to put things right we should look at what position 
Mr R should have been in in May 2016, and compare that with the actual position he is in 
once his transfer is complete. 
The methodology below is how I envisage compensation to be calculated  but I am aware  
that complications with the Australian  regime may occur. Therefore, I feel it is important to 
state that if there are any complications in settling this matter, the overriding intention of my 
decision is to put Mr R into the position  he should have been in  which is to have 
transferred his funds  in May 2016, with the associated currency and tax implications, and to 
account for what would  have been the growth  on this since  then. 
So I ask Phoenix  to work out the position  Mr R would have been in by:
taking the transfer value  of Mr Rs two plans as at 31 May 2016
converting these to AUD using the exchange rate as at 31 May 2016
taking off 15% for tax 
applying the growth  rate of Mr Rs Australian  pension fund on this figure from 
31 May 2016 until as close  to the actual transfer date as reasonably possible  but 
upon the condition that this is evidenced  for Phoenix 
And comparing this with what happens once  the transfer is completed  I again ask that both 
parties do what they can to bring about  completion  within three months  of this decision. 
Should the date be missed, my thoughts on this are above. Once  the transfer is completed, 
the position can be compared  with the above  to reveal:
what the transfer value of the plans is on the actual date
what the AUD exchange rate is on the actual date
and whether the transfer incurs higher tax as suggested
If a May 2016 transfer plus growth from the Australian funds amounts to more than Mr R 
gets from the transfer now,  Phoenix should make good this loss. 
Ref: DRN77136598I am unsure as to whether or not Phoenix will be able to pay any compensation into the 
QROPS. So I direct Phoenix to make  any payment directly to Mr R. The compensation will 
need to be adjusted to allow for any tax charges that Mr R would have suffered had the 
transfer been made into the QROPS in a timely manner. That adjustment should allow for 
any tax-free cash he could have taken and the income tax he would have paid on any 
income taken over time.  The payment would have no liability  to UK income tax but it should 
be adjusted to allow for any Australian tax charge that Mr R might incur because  payment is 
made outside of the QROPS. Mr R will need to provide Phoenix with evidence  of the tax 
charges he would have incurred in respect  of the QROPS and, if any, the compensation 
payment.  
Given that the redress I propose  doesnt yet have  an identifiable date for settlement, Im 
unable to direct Phoenix to settle  with Mr R within any specific  timeframe.  For this reason, I 
ask Phoenix to make any payment due to Mr R within 28 days  of him providing it with the 
information required to calculate what it owes. Any delay thereafter  on Phoenixs part will 
attract additional interest on whats owed at 8% simple per year to date of settlement. 
It may be the case that Mr Rs UK funds have  grown in the time theyve remained invested. 
So the comparison suggestion I have made above will take account  of this and may well go 
some way to reducing any tax bill Phoenix  needs to help with. 
Before our service was involved with Mr Rs complaint, Phoenix had offered him £400  
compensation for the delays and its handling  of the matter. Im satisfied this is a reasonable 
sum in respect of these points and if it wasnt accepted  by Mr R at the time,  I think the offer 
should remain open. But I also recognise  Mr R has been very worried and troubled  by whats 
happened. Hes been concerned about a large tax bill depleting what hes got saved for his 
retirement so I ask for a further  £200 compensation for this, bringing  the total to £600. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  and direct Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited to compensate Mr R as 
I have explained  above. 
As we cannot yet calculate the size of a loss, I must  add that if total fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I recommend the business 
pays the balance.  
determination and money award: I require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to pay Mr R 
compensation as set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the losses on any transfer must be paid to Mr R within 28 
days of the date he provides the evidence  as above. Further  interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date the transfer  completes  
to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 28 days, that it takes Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited to pay Mr R this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for the loss may mean that the actual time taken to settle 
goes beyond the 28 day period allowed for settlement  above   and so any period of time 
where outstanding  evidence  requires  work  on Mr Rs part rather  than Phoenixs,  interest  
wont apply. 
Ref: DRN77136599recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited pays Mr R the balance. I 
also recommend interest to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple for 
any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes  Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited  to pay Mr R 
from the date the transfer completes, as also set out above.
If Mr R accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Phoenix Life Assurance Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept  my determination and go to court  to ask for any 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr R may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7713659