K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr G says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why
Neither Santander nor Mr G have much  paperwork from the time of sale, but given how long 
ago the policy was sold, thats not unreasonable. But where  I have limited information  about 
a sale, I have to decide  what I think is more likely.
Mr G doesnt recall  the PPI being  offered in the meeting he took the mortgage and PPI  he 
only recalls taking the mortgage. But he hasnt  said much  more than that which  is 
understandable given  how long ago this policy was sold. But I have to bear in mind that this 
sale happened around 15 years ago now and even the best of memories can fade over that 
time frame. So while  Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr G has said, I dont think itd be 
reasonable to uphold  a complaint  solely  based on limited recollections from 15 years ago. 
So Ive also taken  into consideration the limited documents that are available in addition  to 
his testimony. 
Santander says it wouldve  made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and asked for Mr G to 
agree to it before adding it to his account.  Ive seen  a welcome  letter Santander says was 
sent to Mr G which made it clear that hed chosen to take out PPI. It had an insurance 
schedule attached which set out the monthly cost and benefit  of the policy.  Ive also seen a 
record of Mr G contacting  Santander to request the cancellation of the policy  a few years  
later indicating he was aware he had it. Had he not agreed to take it in 2003, I wouldve 
expected him to have raised this either  on receipt of the welcome letter  or when he cancelled 
it. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely Santander made  it clear  Mr G didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
was eligible for the PPI and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  
Mr G seems to have  had a need  for the cover. Mr G says he had statutory  sick pay provided 
by his employer  and he had around £500  in savings  to help him make his repayments. He 
also says his family couldve helped. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months if Mr G was 
unable to work because illness, injury or unemployment. This would allow him to use his 
savings on other essential  expenditure at what couldve been  a difficult  time financially. And 
while I have no doubt his family  wouldve  wanted to help him, their ability  to help wouldve 
Ref: DRN75106352depended on their own circumstances  at the time which  couldve changed. So I think  the PPI 
couldve been useful  for him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr G any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr G the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr G 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7510635