K820x#14Complaint
Mr R has complained about the changes that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) made to its 
overdraft pricing structure. 
Background
In the summer  of 2017, Lloyds announced it would be changing  its overdraft pricing structure 
in November 2017. It was moving  from a pricing  model which charged a fixed fee per day for 
borrowing within a certain limit to one where  it would charge 1p a day for every £7 borrowed. 
Mr R complained to Lloyds before these changes came in. He was unhappy his overdraft 
would cost more  to use and he said this increase was not commensurate with the fall in 
Bank of Englands  base rate. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it was entitled to 
change its pricing  structure and while  this meant  some customers might  end up paying 
more, it had transitional arrangements in place to mitigate this. Mr R remained dissatisfied  
and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think Lloyds had done  
anything wrong  or treated Mr R unfairly  and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr R disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr R is unhappy at the increase in Lloyds overdraft interest rate because he thinks  it 
isnt reflective of the Bank of Englands  base  rate, which has reduced,  Im afraid  that this isnt 
something for me to get involved  with.
That said,  while Im not looking at Lloyds charging  structure changes  per se, it wont have 
acted fairly  and reasonably towards  Mr R if it implemented these changes  unfairly.  So Ive 
considered whether Lloyds treated Mr R fairly and reasonably when it implemented these 
changes on his overdraft.  
I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr R unfairly  here though. I say this because  Mr R 
immediately realised that the new pricing  structure meant hed pay more  when using  his 
overdraft. And he contacted Lloyds to arrange a repayment plan. Lloyds carried  out an 
income and expenditure and found  that Mr R didnt have sufficient funds to be able to make 
the payments  he wanted to. So it wanted to move Mr Rs account to collections so that it 
could arrange  a sustainable  repayment  plan. As Mr R refused this, Lloyds agreed not to 
apply any charges for a period in order to review  his options. 
Ive seen that not too long afterwards  Mr R was able to obtain  funds from elsewhere to 
completely clear his overdraft. So this suggests Mr R wasnt a potential  overdraft prisoner  
in other  words, he wasnt locked into accepting the increased charges due to having an 
Ref: DRN74765072existing balance he was unable to make inroads into - because he accessed funds from 
elsewhere and significantly reduced  what he owed. I also think that Mr R was able to do this 
because of the breathing space Lloyds delays in applying  the increased  fees afforded him.
Therefore, bearing  in mind all of the circumstances,  I dont think that Lloyds did anything 
wrong when changing its overdraft pricing structure  and I dont  think  that it treated Mr R 
unfairly when implementing the changes  on his overdraft either. So it follows that Im not 
upholding this complaint.    
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7476507