K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold him credit card payment 
protection insurance policies.
background and summary to complaint
Mr W took out the policies  in 1996 at the same time as applying for the credit  cards.  He 
applied by completing and returning a postal application form. The application was for two 
credit cards  a Visa and a Mastercard,  with separate PPI policies attached  to each card.
In his PPI questionnaire,  Mr W said that it was his first ever credit card application, so he 
wouldnt have applied  without  discussing  matters  first. He therefore said that he spoke to 
Barclays over the phone prior to completing  the form. Later, Mr W has also said that he took 
advice from a local branch of Barclays.
Mr W has told us that his employer would have given him between three and six months  
sick pay. He has also said that he would have  had some money from a policy that was 
maturing in 1998/99. Mr W has also said that he could have made his credit card 
repayments through the sale of his property and from his pension plan.
Looking at Mr Ws application form, he has stated  that he was 30 years old (actually  he 
would have been just a few weeks short of his 30th birthday) and that he was living at home 
with his parents.
Mr W didnt have any health concerns at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for disability,  unemployment  and death   subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It had a benefit of 10%, payable for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
a successful claim for disability or unemployment.  At the time it cost no more  than 70p per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding balance.
The policy ended in 2004,  although the credit cards accounts continued  to run until 2014.
Mr W has made lengthy and substantial representations. Im not going to re-state them all 
here. But in summary,  Mr W has said that:
His circumstances at the time meant  that it was unlikely hed need to claim on the 
policy.
The cost wasnt made clear, which failed to meet  the sales standards  that applied  at 
the time.
The wording of the policy created an unfair  relationship.
Barclays didnt mention the amount  of commission it would be getting.
The credit  card agreement was not compliant  with The Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr W disagrees  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN70825062my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant consideration
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general  insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBS) arent applicable to this complaint.
But there were a number of industry  codes  in existence at the time, which  I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In particular  the Association of British Insurers General  Insurance  Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code . This set out a framework of general 
principles within which ABI members  and intermediaries were expected to sell general 
insurance, including PPI policies like this.
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries.
Whilst not all intermediaries who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI, I consider 
these publications  to be indicative of the standards of good practice  expected of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ws case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to utmost duty of good  faith; and the law relating to causation  and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ref: DRN70825063Ombudsman (OBO)  might have  been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the OBOs terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in their opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out in the FCAs rules  for firms  
Handling PPI complaints - DISP App 3, first issued by the FCA in 2010.  This sale took place 
before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Barclays was required to take 
into account the provisions in Disp App 3 as if they were guidance when considering Mr Ws 
complaint.
I note DISP App 3 includes  guidance for firms about assessing a complaint in order  to 
establish whether  the firms conduct of the sale fell short of the regulatory and legal 
standards expected at the time of sale referred  to as breaches or failings. It did not impose  
new, retrospective, expectations about selling  standards.
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment  are applicable. Ill return  to this issue later in the 
decision.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.
-Whether Barclays gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
Having carefully considered the above, and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ws mis-sale complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below.
Did Mr W know he had a choice?
Mr Ws initial recollection, in relation to the 1996 sale,  was that he spoke to an adviser  at 
Barclays. He firstly said that this was over the phone  and later that it was in a branch. He 
Ref: DRN70825064said he was given the impression that agreeing  to the PPI would improve the chances of the 
credit card being approved.
Barclays has provided a copy of the application form that Mr W completed.  It is a postal 
application form as it is of the type where  an applicant  had to moisten and seal the edges 
prior to returning it.
There is a section for PPI entitled Payment Protection Plan . The wording in that section is 
set out as below:
Yes, I want my Barclaycard account(s) to be covered against unemployment, accident, 
sickness and death. Subject  to my application  for a Barclaycard being  accepted,  I authorise 
you to debit the Barclaycard account(s) to which this application relates  with the monthly 
premiums due until further notice from me to the contrary, or termination of the Plan.  
No, I do not require protection and understand that it is still my responsibility  to repay the 
outstanding balance if I am unable to work or I die.                                                       
Mr W has ticked the Yes  box.
Mr W said that, because the form says: Subject to my application for a Barclaycard being 
accepted.., this reinforced  what he was told about  being more likely to get the credit card if 
he agreed to the PPI.
I dont know what Mr W was told during any conversation he may have had with Barclays. 
Mr W had said both that he spoke  to Barclays over the phone and in branch. I have no doubt 
that Mr W has provided his honest  recollection  of events. But the sale happened a very long 
time ago and so it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr Ws memory of the sale has faded  somewhat, 
especially as taking  out a credit card is not normally a particularly memorable  event.
In response to my provisional decision of October 2019, Mr W says I have made the 
suggestion that he couldnt  remember being told to tick the yes box to improve his chances 
of his credit  card application being  accepted. In response he now says he believes he 
applied for a Barclaycard the previous year and his application was rejected. He says he 
remembers being told about how insuring the credit would improve  his chances of success.
I have thought about what Mr W has said, but it does not change my view. Mr W was 
originally adamant  that the application  in 1996 was his first ever credit card application. He 
also originally said that he spoke to Barclays over the phone and then later said that he 
spoke to them in branch.  So this was an inconsistency in Mr Ws submissions that I 
considered was due to the passage of time.  In response to my provisional decision, Mr W 
now recalls that this wasnt his first ever application for a credit  card and that he had in fact 
applied unsuccessfully  a year earlier. I consider this demonstrates further that Mr Ws 
recollection of events isnt that strong,  so it is difficult for me to rely on them  when deciding 
this complaint..
My view is that the wording on the application  form is fairly  neutral and doesnt  show  any 
bias or is trying to influence applicants  to choose the Yes option. The No option is equally 
as prominent.  The form does not say that the policy is compulsory, and, by having  to tick 
separately to take out the PPI, I am not persuaded Mr W would have been given the 
impression that he did not have a choice about whether to take it out or not.
Ref: DRN70825065Mr W says that the credit  card application  form doesnt conform to the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Mr Ws view is that, as the form was non-compliant, the associated  PPI was not 
lawfully agreed. I accept  it is possible that a court might conclude that the credit agreement 
was not enforceable. But in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, my 
view is that, by ticking the Yes box, Mr W has indicated that he wished to purchase the 
policy.
On balance, based on the available  evidence, I am not persuaded that Mr W was pressured  
into buying the policy. I consider it more likely than not that Mr W decided  to take out the 
policy, knowing that he didnt have to.
The information
I find that Mr W ultimately made his decision to purchase PPI when he was completing the 
application form at home.  I havent seen anything which persuades me that Barclays  made a 
personal recommendation that he take out the policy. Therefore Barclays  didnt have to 
check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable Mr W to make  an informed  choice  about  whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
Barclays says that the application form was part of a leaflet that would have included  a policy 
summary that detailed  the cost and main  features of the policy.  However, due to the 
passage of time, it does  not have a sample  copy of the leaflet. Barclays  has provided a 
policy summary  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to policies like 
Mr Ws.
I consider it is more likely  than not that Barclays included some information about  the 
premiums, cover provided, and things  like the significant restrictions on disability cover,  in 
the wider leaflet, because that was the kind of information it was required to draw to the 
customers attention  by the ABI Code, which it had undertaken to comply  with.
I am also satisfied that Barclays more  likely  than not sent Mr W the full policy conditions 
once the PPI had been  set up, which  it was required to do. But I am mindful that Mr W did 
not base his decision to take out the policy on the policy document.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded  that Barclays gave Mr W the information he 
fairly and reasonably needed to make  an informed decision  about whether or not to take out 
the policy.
The application form would  have given Mr W a broad sense of what  the policy did  that it 
would cover his credit  card accounts  against unemployment, sickness or death.  But it was 
Barclays responsibility to draw to Mr Ws attention the important information   ie. the key 
information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and limitations which 
might be relevant to his decision.
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, the cost of the policy  is not 
mentioned on the application form. And the form doesnt refer an applicant  to where they can 
find this and further information about the policy terms  and conditions.
So I dont  consider that Barclays gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
Ref: DRN70825066drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  to the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
What effect did Barclays shortcomings  have  on Mr W? To what extent  did Mr W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold these policies to Mr W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr W 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Barclays done things properly.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work.
As I have found above, Mr W chose  to take these  policies  out. So I consider it is reasonable 
to conclude he had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But he 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr W thought  he was getting 
was not exactly  what  he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant  consideration 
when determining if Mr W has suffered any loss or detriment.
I consider that Mr W would have understood something about the policy  that it would 
protect his repayments  if he were  unable to work due to disability or unemployment - 
because Im not persuaded that he would have decided to take it without knowing anything  
at all about it.
In relation to the cost, Im satisfied that Mr W ought reasonably  to have known hed have to 
pay something for the PPI, as the application form talks about  authorising  the monthly 
premiums to be debited  from the credit  card accounts. I accept that Barclays  didnt 
sufficiently highlight the premium cost, the ongoing  cost information or that the policy  limited 
the number of monthly benefit payments to twelve per claim.
Mr W would  have received at least three months  sick pay from his employer. The policy  
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr W would 
have received full pay for. Mr W has said that he had other means of making his credit  card 
repayments if he wasnt working, such as through his pension or by selling his property. 
However, as Mr W was around 30 years old at the time, its unlikely  he would have been 
able to access income from his pension scheme. And, according to his application  form, 
Mr W was living at home with his parents rather than being  the owner of a property. Mr W 
says that he had a policy  that would have matured in 1998/99, but that was two or three 
years after the point of sale.
In addition, the policy had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full in certain 
circumstances. So while Mr W didnt know some things, the ultimate  position  in the event of 
a successful claim wasnt dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought  from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable.
Ref: DRN70825067Barclays didnt sufficiently  highlight  the exclusions and limitations, so for example, pre-
existing medical conditions werent covered.  But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
Mr W would  have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  for example, he didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. Mr W has said 
that hed never had a day off work sick at that point and that he had an uninterrupted work  
history, so the policy was of no benefit  to him. But insurance is there to cover unexpected  life 
events.
The evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the sale shows that the policy was 
not fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for the benefits and it provided cover that 
could have proved  useful  to him should  the insured risks come  to fruition.
Mr W says the adjudicator made the wrong assumption in concluding that the cost of the PPI 
was not too expensive for him but that it was actually costing him about  2.5%  of his take 
home salary. The cost of the policy was a percentage of the outstanding  credit card balance  
and would therefore fluctuate  in relation  to that balance. As Ive already mentioned,  Mr W 
would have needed to weigh up the cost against  the potential  benefits. Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr W has said. However, on balance,  given  his circumstances at the time, I am 
not persuaded that if Mr W had understood at the time that the policy cost no more than 70p 
per £100  of outstanding balance, that he would  have decided against buying  the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr W would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  he 
thought he was getting and I consider that the policy could have provided a useful benefit at 
a difficult time. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely  than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr W has made reference to unfair  contract  terms in the policy.  In this case  the complaint is 
against the seller,  Barclays, who is also the lender, but who is not the insurer.  The terms 
have been put into the contract by the insurer and can only be exercised by the insurer.  So 
what the insurer can and cant  do and whether it has acted unfairly  or not isnt something I 
can consider here. My consideration of this complaint is whether Barclays  acted  fairly  and 
reasonably towards  Mr W when it sold him the policy. And if it did not, whether and to what  
extent I think hes lost out as a result.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Barclays should have done more  to clearly bring the 
relevant contractual terms to Mr Ws attention.  And, having done so, I think  it should have 
done more given the nature of the terms. So I think Mr W would have wanted to know  about 
them. Because Mr W wasnt clearly  told, I dont  think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably  
towards him.
Again, while  I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude some of Barclays  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  failed to act 
fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information provided  
but because the overall  information Barclays gave Mr W, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1996 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr W says that I have  ignored  the legal requirements  
for selling insurance  and that Ive even  ignored  ICOBS. As I have explained above (and also 
in my provisional decision), the sale took place before  the sale of general insurance products 
like this became regulated  in January 2005. So the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching 
Ref: DRN70825068Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable 
to this complaint.
Overall I find that, even if Barclays had done more to highlight the terms clearly to Mr W, I 
dont consider this would have made  a difference to his decision to buy the PPI for the 
reasons Ive already explained.  Which  means  that Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W 
because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Mr W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has basically paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said  including what hes said about  another court case 
in relation to non-disclosure of commission where a consumer  received all the commission  
back, not just that over 50%. Mr W says that Barclays  isnt entitled to keep any of the 
commission. But the nature of the lending and the type of PPI was different in the case  that 
Mr W has referred to (it was a single premium  policy, the cost of which  was added  upfront to 
a secured loan).
The law is one of the things I need to take into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. Im not limited  to what a court might 
do. I also need to take into account  the relevant regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and (where  appropriate) what I consider to be good  industry  practice at 
the relevant time.
In this case, Barclays made Mr W an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of 
commission it received thats  in line with the methods  set out by the FCA. But Mr W wants  
Barclays to do something  different.
Ive looked at the particular circumstances of Mr W and his complaint to see if theres 
anything that would  mean Barclays  should  do something different  if the remedies set out in 
the FCAs rules dont lead to fair redress for Mr W. But there isnt anything to suggest to me 
that the redress offered by Barclays isnt fair.
In this case I consider  that Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my final decision
My decision  is that the policy wasnt mis-sold. So Barclays Bank  UK Plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN70825069But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. If Mr W decides to reject my decision, he is free to 
pursue his complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc elsewhere.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7082506