K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  how National Westminster Bank Plc managed the interest 
charged to their account in the past. Mr and Mrs D say that they have only recently been 
moved to a system where interest was calculated daily and applied  monthly  to the mortgage  
balance rather than annually. 
background
Mr and Mrs D have had a mortgage with NatWest for many  years and took out their present 
mortgage in 1994. They say that they asked  on a number of occasions  since  2004 that 
NatWest move them from applying the interest annually  but until recently  this has been  
refused. During  a recent  remortgage,  they found  out that this has now been done  to suit 
NatWests internal processes and wonder why it couldnt have been done  when  they 
requested it.
NatWest says that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was until recently  subject to the terms that 
applied in the 1994 mortgage offer. The mortgage  at that time was subject to the mortgage 
interest being applied annually rather than monthly. But NatWest  changed its system in 2017 
so that the mortgage Mr and Mrs D took with NatWest in 2017 was subject to the interest  
being applied  monthly.
Our adjudicator felt that NatWest had done  nothing wrong and didnt recommend that this 
complaint should  be upheld,  Mr and Mrs D disagreed saying in summary that they feel that 
they have been treated differently and unfairly  when compared to other customers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D took out this mortgage in 1994. They also took out further borrowing in 2004 
and July 2015. It was only when they took out further borrowing in 2017 which  led to a 
remortgage that the method of application of the interest was changed.
NatWest appears to have  applied  the interest  annually to mortgages  taken out before 2004.  
NatWest had a computerised system in place to do these calculations  called MM. In 2004, 
because of the introduction of MCOB, which applied regulations to new mortgages taken out 
from 2004, NatWest introduced a new computerised system to calculate the mortgage 
interest called  GMS. This system applied the interest monthly.  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is 
that they havent had the opportunity to move  to the new system until recently and so have 
been treated differently to other customers. The bank  in recent years has been moving all of 
its customers to the GMS system  including  Mr and Mrs D.
What is significant  here is what Mr and Mrs D agreed to when  they took out the mortgage.  I 
note that the Terms  and Conditions say that The interest you pay is calculated daily and 
added to your mortgage account every year on 31 December. That is the system that 
NatWest operated on Mr and Mrs Ds account until they took out a different mortgage. The 
mortgage agreement  is a contract  entered into by both parties. Mr and Mrs D feel that they 
Ref: DRN74488282would have been better off on a mortgage where the interest  was calculated monthly which  
appears to be the case. 
But I dont see that NatWest was obliged to change the method of calculating the mortgage 
interest on Mr and Mrs Ds existing mortgage.  In 2003 and 2015, Mr and Mrs D applied  for 
and got additional borrowing on that mortgage. There is no evidence that NatWest  was 
acting as a broker  and engaged to advise Mr and Mrs D on what was the best mortgage  for 
them to take out. Mr and Mrs D appear  to have simply applied for more money and got it. 
So, in that situation I wouldnt expect NatWest  to have advised  Mr and Mrs D to have taken 
out a different mortgage than they were already on.
From the NatWest system notes, I see that in January 2013 when Mr and Mrs D were 
considering a term extension, they raised the issue of converting the mortgage to get the 
benefit of the mortgage interest  being  calculated monthly. NatWest told them  that its policy  
wasnt to convert these types of account. It seems  to have changed this policy  recently for 
administrative convenience.
Mr and Mrs D believe that they werent  treated fairly. It seems to me that there is no dispute  
that they were  treated  fairly under the original contract which they had with NatWest and the 
correct terms  and conditions were applied. NatWest refused to apply the new post 2004 
terms and conditions to the old contract. I note that MCOB applied  to mortgages taken out 
after 2004  so I cant say that NatWest  was in breach of any regulations  in continuing to apply 
the pre-2004 terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs D have produced some figures  to show that they were part of a diminishing 
number of NatWest customers who were on the pre-2004  terms. NatWest says that if a new 
contract was entered into between a customer and NatWest  such as a transfer of title or the 
mortgage was ported,  this new contract  would  be regulated by MCOB so the post 2004  
contract conditions would apply. In these  cases the old mortgage was closed  down and a 
new mortgage opened. But this wasnt necessary where there  was a variation of the existing 
mortgage such as a further  advance,  change of term or change of interest  rate. 
So, I can see why the customers who were on the pre-2004 contracts  diminished  in numbers 
but this doesnt appear to be unfair but is simply  a  result  of the new terms and conditions 
that applied to the new contracts. As Mr and Mrs D didnt take out a new contract but were 
subject to the old contract, those new terms and conditions didnt apply to them. As Ive 
indicated above  that as NatWest wasnt acting as a broker I dont believe that it would be 
expected to advise on whether Mr and Mrs D should have taken out a new mortgage  
contract or not. So for these reasons  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7448828