K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about how HSBC UK Bank  Plc handled a mortgage application Mr M made 
to it when he wanted to buy out his brothers interest  in his late mothers  property. He says 
that HSBC delayed matters, sent letters to the wrong address, lied to him about its policy on 
correspondence addresses, and repeatedly  ignored  both his attempts to speed things up 
and his complaints  when  nothing happened.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr M when my decision is 
published.
Mr M and his brother each inherited  a half share  in their mothers property  when she died. It 
was agreed that Mr M would buy his brothers share, and to fund this, he applied  to HSBC 
for a mortgage. The application was approved and HSBC issued a mortgage offer in late 
September 2017, valid for six months. Things went wrong soon after that. 
HSBC sent some correspondence to a different address from the one Mr M was using, and 
when he challenged  it, was given contradictory information  about HSBCs  policy  on 
correspondence addresses. There was a communication failure between  HSBCs solicitor 
and Mr Ms solicitor, and neither appears to have known what it was meant to be doing  and 
when with regards  to the transaction.  
With time going by and Mr M becoming  anxious  about progressing things, he made  a 
succession (hes said 14) of visits to his local HSBC branch. Each  time, he says he was 
fobbed off with excuses  and, in some respects,  downright lies. Even when he complained, 
Mr M says he was ignored and not taken seriously. 
The mix-up between the solicitors was only resolved in February  2018,  and Mr Ms solicitors 
received instructions to begin the conveyancing  work. They  then apparently discovered that 
the title deeds to the property needed reconstituting and on 14 March 2018 asked HSBC  to 
extend the mortgage offer. HSBC  wasnt willing to extend and on 27 March 2018 the 
six-month expiry  date for the mortgage offer passed,  and the transaction lapsed.
Mr M says this damaged  his relationships  with the solicitor and his brother, the latter in 
particular because it caused suspicion that he wasnt acting fairly regarding  their mothers  
estate. In its final response to his complaint,  dated 1 August 2018,  HSBC apologised for the 
way it had handled the application, and of the poor service Mr M had received from staff. But 
HSBC didnt accept  its mistakes had caused  the transaction to fail, given  the problem with 
the title deeds had only come to light in March  2018. 
HSBC offered Mr M £450  compensation, a sum which the first of our investigators  to look at 
the case considered  fair. Mr M wasnt happy  and asked for the complaint to be looked at 
Ref: DRN76303952again. It was looked  at again, but by a different investigator because  by then the first 
investigator left the service. 
The new investigator  thought HSBC had more of a case to answer for; primarily because of 
the delay in its own solicitors in starting the conveyance. If it had acted more  swiftly, the 
problem with the title deeds  could have been  identified sooner, so that Mr Ms solicitors 
could start work on reconstituting  them. He said there was a chance  matters could have 
been resolved  in time for the mortgage to complete before the offer expired, and because of 
that, he recommended the compensation be increased to £750.
HSBC agreed to settle the complaint as recommended, but Mr M has asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He says he feels stuck half way between  being believed and 
not believed.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Where theres a dispute 
about the evidence, including whether all of the relevant evidence  has been provided,  its for 
me to decide  if I have  everything I need to determine the case  fairly. Here,  Im satisfied I can 
do so on the basis  of what I have in front of me.
Its sometimes easy for those with a stake  in a complaint  to fall into the trap of thinking  that 
complaint resolution  is solely about finding  fault and/or attributing  blame.  But there can often 
be more (or less) to it than that. There are occasions where its less about deciding  who did 
or didnt  get things wrong and more  about what will set things  right. To put it another way, 
sometimes the outcome  of a complaint is simply about finding  a fair resolution, and in my 
view this is one of those  instances.
Its clear that HSBC got an awful lot wrong;  its admitted  as much itself, and has apologised 
for doing so. Im conscious Mr M feels hes been  told lies, especially on the point about the 
banks policy  on correspondence  addresses. I sense how important that is to him, but it 
doesnt materially affect the outcome. 
When wrong or contradictory  information is given, it might be down to carelessness, a lack of 
training or, as Mr M believes,  a deliberate  intention  to deceive. But as far as resolving the 
complaint is concerned, the effect of a mistake  is more  important  than the motivation behind  
it. Ill come  back  to that in due course.
Ref: DRN76303953It seems  to me that the real crux of this complaint is whether, if the delays and 
communication mix-ups  in particular  between the two firms  of solicitors  hadnt  happened,  
the reconstitution of the deeds  could have been  finished in time for the transaction to go 
ahead and complete whilst Mr Ms mortgage offer was still valid;  that is, before 
27 March 2018.
Mr M clearly believes it could, and the current investigator has conceded  the possibility. But 
for me to find in Mr Ms favour  on this in a final decision  that would be binding  on all parties  
if he accepted  it  possibility isnt enough.  I need to be satisfied from the available  evidence 
that its more likely than not (as likely isnt enough  either) that if nothing had gone wrong, 
Mr Ms solicitors  could  have reconstituted the title deeds and removed any other potential 
obstacles arising from the probate so that he could  complete the purchase  of his brothers 
share before 27 March  2018.
HSBC has provided  a contemporaneous note of a conversation  between  it and Mr Ms 
solicitors on 10 July 2018. In that conversation, its noted that the solicitor  said hed been 
surprised to receive mortgage instructions  in February 2018  because as recently as 
January 2018,  Mr M and his brother were undecided on who would buy whose share  of the 
property. I have no view on whether thats an accurate  assessment of the position  between 
Mr M and his brother, but its what HSBC  noted  Mr Ms solicitor as having said to it in 
July 2018. 
HSBC has also provided a copy of an email  the complaint handler sent to Mr Ms solicitor  on 
31 July 2018,  the day before sending out the banks final response to the complaint.
In that email,  she said
Im aware that reconstructing the title will take time,  and it would be prudent to hold off 
starting any new lending  application secured against  such  property, until we know that (a) it 
is appropriate and possible  and (b) successful completion can be had within  the 6 month 
validity of a mortgage application.  Should  Mr [M] intend to start a new application  with 
HSBC, I do need  to know what stage youre at, with the title reconstruction, I will therefore  be 
able to approach  a resolution sensibly.
A response  to that email  isnt in the evidence,  but this was four months  after the mortgage 
offer had expired (and even longer after the need for title reconstruction  had come to light).  It 
seems to me that for HSBC to be asking for news on progress of the title reconstruction at 
this late stage rather points to the exercise most likely not having yet been completed.  Even 
if that process had begun as soon as the mortgage  offer had been issued, I cant say with 
enough certainty that it could have been  completed  before the offer expired.
Taking everything together, its difficult to for me to conclude that, even without HSBCs 
mistakes, Mr M would have been in a position to complete the transaction  in the six-month 
period between the mortgage offer being  issued  and expiring.
When youre as close to a difficult situation  as Mr M has been for so long here,  its a natural 
subjective reaction  to want to pursue every individual  issue  with vigour. But I have  a different 
remit. I have to be objective and impartial, and sometimes that means  stepping  back from 
the fine detail  and taking an overview. It also means  that Im not required to provide answers 
to every specific question that comes  up, if I dont consider  doing  so will affect the overall 
outcome.
Ref: DRN76303954I said Id come back to the effect  of HSBCs shortcomings on Mr M. Ive no doubt this has 
been a thoroughly unpleasant experience for Mr M, and the way HSBC has handled things 
will certainly not have  helped. Ive explained  why I dont think  HSBC  caused the transaction  
to fail, but for his time, trouble and upset, Mr M is definitely due compensation. The current 
investigator assessed fair compensation  at £750,  and in the circumstances, I agree.
Mr M has said a solicitor  has advised him hes entitled to compensation.in the region of 
£2,000. In that context, its appropriate  that I explain that Mr M doesnt  have  to accept my 
conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor HSBC will be bound by my final decision. 
Subject to any time limits or other  restrictions a court  might  impose,  Mr Ms right to take legal 
action against  HSBC over the subject matter of this complaint with a view to securing the 
compensation that he believes  hes due wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of 
the complaint.
Finally, Im always  reluctant to order a business  to apologise to someone and here its no 
different. It always seems to me that an apology given under duress has no value. In any 
event, as Ive noted, HSBC has apologised to Mr M in its final response.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. In full 
and final settlement, I direct HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M £750 as compensation for his 
time, trouble and upset. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7630395