K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a credit card in June 2003.
background
The policy was added  to Mr Ls credit card account when he applied for the card online via 
the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. Mr Ls main  concern is that if the PPI had been 
properly explained,  he wouldnt  have  agreed  to buy it. Mr L told us that he had good sick pay 
through work, and some savings, so he didnt need PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Mr L aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the online 
application form Mr L completed, there  were blank  Yes and No options  available   neither 
was automatically filled in. Mr L had to select  the Yes option to include PPI. There was an 
option to say No. So I think hed have known  at the time that he couldve declined  PPI if he 
hadnt wanted it. And he wouldve had to choose  one of those  options  in order for his 
application to proceed.  Its completely understandable  that he mightve forgotten  some of 
these details so long after the event.  But, on balance,  I find that Mr L knew  he had a choice 
about protecting his card repayments  and he wanted to do so at the time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. But 
it still shouldve given  Mr L enough information  to make a proper decision about  whether PPI 
was right for him. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if this made any overall  difference  to 
Mr L. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Mr L was asked to decide about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described,  the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Mr L couldve have benefitted  from having  the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Mr L had 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay 
through work. The policy wouldve paid out, in full, for up to 12 months  on top of his sick pay. 
So PPI gave him better protection in the event that he was too ill to work. Bearing in mind 
that Mr L mightve also had some  additional costs if he was too unwell to go back  to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially when he 
went down to half pay only.  
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ls credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Ref: DRN75337252Ive taken into account that Mr L had some savings at the time. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. And the policy  paid 
out for longer than its likely the amount of savings hes mentioned  wouldve lasted if hed 
had to rely on these  to cover his outgoings  when he was unable  to work.  
So I can see why he mightve wanted  to have  PPI. Having PPI wouldve meant Mr L could 
be sure hed be able to more than cover  his Egg card monthly repayments whatever  his 
circumstances. And if he was off work for 12 months  in a row then the policy  wouldve  
cleared his card balance.  
Its possible  some information Egg gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. And Ive taken into account  that Mr L 
wasnt covered for an ongoing medical condition  he has. But he told us he was able to 
manage his condition effectively with prescribed medication he uses as and when needed. 
Ive seen nothing  that suggests  to me that its likely Mr L wouldve thought it likely hed have 
needed to claim under  the policy for any absence from work related to the health issue  hes 
brought to our attention.  And, even if that mightve been something he thought  was a 
possibility, hed still have  had all the other policy benefits. So I dont think better information 
about the policys limitations  wouldve  affected  Mr Ls decision to take out PPI. 
I think, when it was trading as Egg, Canada Square Operations Limited couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But Mr L was eligible for the policy. It seems to have been 
affordable for Mr L when  he took it out. And, looked  at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered 
Mr L, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think hed still have taken  out the policy.  
This means  Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr L.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because 
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN75337253my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7533725