K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that the service she received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) following 
a change to her account was poor,  and also that the way her complaint was dealt with 
thereafter was also poor.  There  are a number of aspects to the complaint which are set out 
below.
background 
On the 7 December 2017  Mrs T was advised  to close  her 123 credit card account  ending 
173 by a Santander advisor, which she did. Mrs T said she assumed that Santander had 
then closed the account as the advisor  had cut up the card. On the 22 December, a new 
Zero credit card was issued to Mrs T, and she made a manual payment to her account of 
the full balance outstanding. However,  that months direct debit also went  through on the 
27 December putting the account  in credit. Mrs T was also unhappy that the credit balance  
on her account wasnt earning interest  for over 6 months.
Mrs T said that she was charged interest  on her new Zero account when she ought not to 
have been, and because of an error by Santander  in setting up the direct debit. Santander 
accepted they had set up the direct  debit wrongly and refunded  her the interest charges. 
Mrs T also complains  that she received text messages telling  her that she had spent more 
than 90% of her credit limit, when she had not, and also that her credit limit had been 
reduced without any prior notice. 
Santander has accepted they made  errors in not putting a block  on the credit card, and not 
cancelling the direct debit. Further, they accepted  that when Mrs T paid the balance in the 
branch an advisor  should have told her the direct debit would still be paid as there was 
insufficient time to stop it. As the account  remained  in credit it wasnt closed until July 2018 
after a letter had been sent out asking Mrs T to contact Santander,  but Santander say Mrs T 
ought to have known that because they had issued monthly online statements to her prior to 
that in any event. 
Santander also said that they had checked  their log of text alerts sent to Mrs T between 
September 2010 and July 2018 which  did not show any texts of the nature Mrs T described. 
As to the reduction in credit limits Santander said they had not been reduced.
In recognising their errors Santander  paid in total £150 to Mrs T, but she remained unhappy  
with their response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked into the complaint but 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong.  Mrs T disagreed  with that view and so the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have not repeated the adjudicators  
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
I can understand how Mrs T would assume that her original credit card account had been 
closed, but she was still getting statements which would have clearly  shown the account 
Ref: DRN73740452remained open and that there was a credit  balance there. I think it is fair to expect a 
customer to take responsibility for their own account and mange it, and that would include 
being aware it was still open and of the balance on it. 
I appreciate that Mrs T says inaccurate  text messages were sent, but having looked at 
Santanders log there is no evidence of this. Equally I cannot see any evidence to support 
the complaint  that the credit limits were decreased, in fact the opposite appears to be the 
case from the statements  provided. So I cant say Santander have fallen into error here.
Santander have  also acknowledged their error in failing to set up the direct  debit  properly 
and refunded the interest charged to Mrs Ts account. I appreciate that Mrs T says she 
overheard a conversation by engineers regarding the potential cause of the incorrect  direct  
debits being taken, but that is not corroborated  by any other  evidence.  In any event 
Santander has refunded all the interest  charged.
What I need to decide is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt  with 
Mrs T. Santander  have acknowledged  their errors  and apologised for them,  paying  £150 in 
compensation. Ive given  thought to that level of compensation and I do think that it is 
reasonable. It is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this, and I think it is fair.
I know Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision  but Im not satisfied that Santander  have 
treated her unfairly, and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further, and Im not 
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7374045