K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Virgin Money  plc lost his passport.  
background 
Mr T applied  for a savings  account  with Virgin Money and was asked to provide some proof 
of identity and address.  He sent documents to prove  his address and his passport to 
Virgin Money in the same  envelope. But after the account was opened Mr T only received 
the address documents  back, not his passport. He complained to Virgin  Money. 
Virgin Money responded to Mr Ts complaint but said it had no record  of ever receiving his 
passport. However,  Virgin Money offered Mr T £85 to cover the cost of replacing his 
passport and £20 so he could register with a fraud prevention service.  
Mr T didnt  think  Virgin Moneys offer went far enough and referred his complaint to this 
service. An adjudicator looked at what had happened and asked Virgin  Money to pay an 
additional £200 for the trouble and upset caused. Virgin Money  agreed  but Mr T didnt 
accept. As Mr T didnt accept  the settlement and didnt agree with the adjudicators view, his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only set out the background  to this complaint in brief above but I want  to assure Mr T 
and Virgin  Money  that Ive read and carefully  considered everything thats been said and all 
the evidence provided in this case. Mr T has provided a detailed  complaint submission and 
raised lots of different concerns about the way Virgin Money handled his passport and the 
way it investigated  his complaint. Ive taken everything hes said on board when reaching my 
decision. I hope Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy that Im not responding to every point 
hes made. Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues of Mr Ts complaint here.
Virgin Money says it has no record of receiving Mr Ts passport. But Mr Ts explained that 
the passport was sent via recorded delivery  in the same package as the address verification 
documents he sent. As Virgin Money received the address documents  Mr T sent it follows  it 
wouldve received  the passport as well. I appreciate that theres  no way to now show  what  
was in the envelope Mr T sent but I dont doubt  what hes told Virgin  Money and this service.  
Where information or evidence is incomplete  Ill base my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most  likely to have happened  based on the available  
evidence and information. 
In this case, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr T did send Virgin  Money his passport when he 
opened his savings account  and that it wasnt returned to him. 
As I agree that Virgin Money most  likely lost Mr Ts passport  Im going to focus on how to 
fairly resolve  his complaint. Virgin Money  offered to cover the cost of replacing Mr Ts 
passport and pay for him to register for two years  with a fraud prevention service. The 
adjudicator didnt think that offer was fair and accepted that Virgin Money  lost Mr Ts 
Ref: DRN70666352passport. He asked  Virgin Money  to increase the settlement by another £200 which  it agreed  
to do. 
Mr T wants Virgin Money to pay for a private  detective to investigate whether his passports 
been misused and provide annual reports advising him what  to do if any fraud related  
problems are found. Mr T says the cost of this service for a five year period will be around 
£27,500. Hes also asked  for £100 in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused in 
addition to the existing offer. 
Mr T told us he has a large amount of savings,  including a significant amount with 
Virgin Money, and hes concerned  about  fraud and the misuse of his passport. I appreciate 
Mr Ts concerns and understand why hes asked  Virgin Money  to pay for additional security  
measures to be put in place. But I dont  think itd be fair to tell Virgin  Money to cover the cost 
of hiring a private detective nor do I feel that the is cost proportionate to the error made. 
I also have to take into account  that theres  no evidence  that Mr Ts passport has or will be 
used for fraudulent purposes. If Mr T was able to supply evidence that hes been the subject 
of fraud  as a result  of the loss of his passport wed have taken them  into account. And if that 
ever happens, Mr T has the right to raise a complaint about  his losses.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr T but Im not telling Virgin Money  to pay for a private detective. 
Virgin Money offered  £20 for Mr T to register with a fraud prevention service. Ive looked  at 
the service provided  and it does appear  to offer some  measure  of additional security. I can 
see Mr T has concerns over the level of protection it gives,  but given Virgin Money  has 
offered to pay for it he may wish to consider whether to proceed.  
I agree  that Mr T has been inconvenienced  by what happened and Im pleased Virgin Money  
offered to cover the cost of a replacement passport. Virgin Moneys  also agreed to increase 
the award by a further £200 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.  
Ive carefully considered  all the information available and everything Mr T and Virgin  Money 
have said and Im satisfied that the increased  offer of £200 for the trouble and upset caused, 
£85 to cover  the cost of replacing  the passport and £20 to register with a fraud prevention 
service is fair in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Virgin  Money plc to pay Mr T a total of 
£305 less any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN70666353
Ref: DRN7066635