K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the poor service he got from Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  and 
its approved repairer  after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr H told us that after an accident in October  2017, he contacted Admiral. His car was 
booked in by its approved  repairer  (garage A) in June  2018. He got the car back four 
months later. There were repair issues then that still havent been dealt with. The claim 
remains open as theres  a dispute  about liability. Mr H complained to us in November 2018. 
By that point, hed received four final response letters from Admiral following the formal 
complaints hed made to it in March, June,  July and October 2018. 
In March 2018 Admiral  upheld  the four issues Mr H complained about (lack of contact,  poor 
communication about liability / repair issues  and delay). Admiral offered Mr H £100 
compensation for that. In June 2018  Admiral  upheld Mr Hs further complaint about the lack 
of updates on liability. It offered him £50. It rejected his further  complaints about  the lack of 
feedback on the repairs and on the claim itself. In July 2018 Admiral upheld  Mr Hs further 
complaints about  delay  and a lack of updates.  It offered him £100 compensation. It rejected 
his complaint about having to pay for finance  on his car whilst  the claim was ongoing.  
In October  2018, Admiral  replied to 18 concerns Mr H had raised with it. It said it had dealt 
with several of them (such as lack of contact, the time taken to deal with the claim and 
Mr Hs finance agreement) in prior responses. It didnt uphold nine concerns  including  his 
increased premium and some issues with a run-around / courtesy  car from garage A. 
Admiral upheld five concerns.  It accepted  that in July 2018  garage A unexpectedly asked for 
its courtesy car back. Mr H was given a hire car instead. When  he went to collect  his car in 
August 2018  as the hire firm told him Admiral had ended the hire  he found it wasnt  
ready. Mr H accepted a run-around / courtesy  car from garage A. It proved not to be 
roadworthy. Mr H found what  seemed to be an illegal substance  in it. Admiral also accepted  
that Mr Hs car shouldnt have needed  rectification work. It offered him £300 compensation. 
Mr H only accepted one of Admirals offers of compensation  (£300). As he wasnt  happy  with 
the resolution of his complaints overall,  one of our investigators looked  into his concerns.  
The investigator upheld  Mr Hs complaints about the lack of communication  by Admiral  and 
garage A and about the standard  of repairs. She thought Mr H had valid concerns about the 
courtesy car he was given  in August 2018.  And she thought he should be paid for additional  
costs - including the substantial  payments  hed made on the cars finance - given the delays  
in the claims / repair process.  
The investigator said Admiral should pay Mr H £1,250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. She said it should pay for Mr H to have the remaining repairs done at a 
garage of his choice.  She also said it should refund the finance payments Mr H had made  on 
the car from May 2018 onwards, as she thought the repairs should have been  completed by 
then. She also thought  it should refund the road tax and insurance hed paid since then. 
Mr H said hed also like the £500  policy excess  hed paid to be refunded. He didnt think the 
compensation was high enough. He said he could have lost his job or his life as a result of 
the defective run-around / courtesy  car. The investigator said Mr H was required to pay the 
policy excess, and she thought the compensation shed proposed was sufficient. Meanwhile, 
Ref: DRN76524732Admiral said it didnt  think it should  be asked to reimburse the finance payments Mr H had 
made. Nor did it think it should pay for the cars  tax and insurance. It queried the extra items 
of work on the repair invoice hed provided  recently. It said an independent assessor  would 
have to review the work that was needed.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Mr H says he didnt get the first three  final response letters Admiral issued, but I think  its 
more likely than not that they were sent to him. Admiral  can show the letters were produced 
and that the correct address was on each one. And Mr H accepts that he got the first three 
cheques Admiral sent to him. I think that should  have prompted  him to contact Admiral to 
ask what the cheques were for - whether he intended to cash them  or not.
Looking at Mr Hs complaints as a whole, the central  themes  are poor contact and poor 
communication from Admiral and garage A, plus inadequate repairs and delay. Mr H made 
further complaints  about his finance  agreement and other costs, plus the impact  on him of 
the sub-standard courtesy car, the policy excess and the increased renewal premium.
communication / delay    
In July 2018 Admiral  accepted that there  had been  no contact with Mr H from its liability  
team since  January 2018.That was despite  a promise in its previous final response  letter  in 
June 2018 that it would ensure future contact. At that point it seems  there  had been none  for 
several months. Admiral  also accepted in July 2018 that it had not given Mr H general 
updates about the claim. Mr H complained about  having to chase Admiral for updates again 
after that date,  but in its last final response  letter, Admiral said the issue had been dealt with 
in its previous response. I think that ignores the fact that Mr H wasnt  happy about  the lack of 
contact from Admiral after July 2018.  That included Admirals failure  to contact Mr H about  a 
tyre / a report done by an independent assessor  in August 2018 and about its termination  of 
his hire car. These failures  caused  further  delay  and inconvenience for Mr H.
Mr H also complained about the lack of contact from garage  A. Admiral said in June 2018 
that garage A had problems contacting him. Mr H had complained about the lack of contact  
by Admiral and garage A in January 2018.  Admiral had a chance  to put matters right after 
that. But there was very little contact from then until April 2018  from Admiral or the garage, 
except a burst of activity over a week  or so. I think its fair to say that had there been more  
contact from Admiral or garage  A from January 2018 onwards, the repairs are likely to have 
been completed much sooner than they were. But even when the car finally went  to 
garage A for repair  in June 2018,  it still didnt contact Mr H as it should  have done. One 
example of that is that Mr Hs hire company told him the hire was ending  that day, but 
Admiral and the garage hadnt told him his car was ready to collect.  
I think its very clear that over a period of months  there were  many periods when Mr H wasnt 
aware what was happening with the claim, with liability or with the repairs.  As a result  of that 
he was confused, frustrated and inconvenienced. He had to chase  Admiral  for updates. He 
also had to make fruitless trips to the garage to collect his car, due to being given the wrong  
information. I think the liability issues may have been largely outside Admirals control. But I 
dont think that should have stopped it from updating  Mr H. In my opinion,  given the extent  of 
the very poor communication from Admiral and the garage whilst the claim dragged on, it 
would be reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr H £500  further compensation.
Ref: DRN76524733repairs and courtesy car
Garage A told Mr H he could collect his car on 27 July 2018,  some six weeks after the 
repairs were started. But Mr H found that a wheel  hadnt been  repaired. It seems Admiral  
hadnt authorised  it  but neither Admiral nor the garage had told Mr H. Admiral later agreed  
to the repair. He noticed a rear light was missing,  and the garage said it would be replaced. 
Mr H was given a hire car until 31 August 2018. It isnt clear  why it took the garage so long to 
repair the wheel.  But when it was finally done, Mr H then found  the rear light hadnt been  
replaced as promised. The light hadnt been damaged in the accident. The garage said it 
removed it to test the electrics on another car. At this point, Mr H was given the run-around  / 
courtesy car that turned  out to be sub-standard. The next day one of its tyres blew out. Mr H 
says that caused  the car to swerve and he narrowly avoided having  an accident.  
Mr H says he missed  a weeks  training  course  due to the delay  that was caused by the blow-
out. He says the spare tyre was bald. The garage doesnt deny that he had to wait for an 
engineer to go out to deal with it. Mr H then found  a bag in the car that seemed to contain  an 
illegal substance. Given his occupation, Mr H was very concerned that had he been stopped 
by the police, his career could have  been at risk. And he thought the consequences of the 
blow-out could have been  very serious. I think all of this could have been avoided  had the 
garage not removed  the rear light on Mr Hs car - or at least  put it back, as promised.
Mr H collected his car from the garage  on 7 September 2018. Shortly  afterwards,  he noted 
that the front bumper and a headlight seemed to be misaligned. A local garage confirmed 
what he thought.  It said a sensors wiring had been  left dangling as well. Garage A said it 
would correct the faults whilst Mr H was away on holiday in October 2018. But on his return,  
he found the work hadnt even been started. Mr H says a garage  employee told him it was 
because garage  A was unhappy that hed complained to Admiral about the possible illegal 
substance. Garage A said it would book  the car in again, but it didnt contact him further. 
Mr H later got an estimate for the repair work from another garage.  It said repairs and 
paintwork were needed to the cars front wings, bumper and bonnet. We asked Mr H why 
there were extra items on the invoice. He said the garage hed consulted said the quality of 
repairs done by garage A was very poor,  so the front of the car needed respraying. By this 
point it was over four months since garage  A had started the initial repairs  on his car  and 
over a year after the accident.
I think Mr H was grossly  inconvenienced by garage A not booking his car in sooner, by it not 
starting or completing work  on time and by it not getting the repairs  right.  I think  he should 
have had the car back by the end of August 2018 at the very latest. Instead, Mr H had to use 
the run-around  / courtesy car. Theres no doubt  he had a very difficult  time as a result of that.  
We cant compensate Mr H for what might  have happened as a result of the blow-out. And 
we dont know for sure whether there was an illegal substance in the car. But if there was, 
fortunately there were no adverse consequences  for him from that. Mr H says he missed a 
training course  as a result of the three-hour delay caused by the blow-out.  I have  no reason 
to doubt it. But I dont think its possible to calculate the longer-term effect of that on his 
career. I havent seen  any evidence on this issue.
 
Garage A was made aware at the start of September 2018 what  had happened to Mr H due 
to its error in not having replaced the light and giving  him the faulty run-around  / courtesy 
car. So when  he pointed out that rectification work  was needed  in September 2018,  Id have 
Ref: DRN76524734expected garage  A to do all it could to ensure the work was done quickly  and to a high 
standard. I think it was unacceptable that the garage  hadnt  even  started the repairs  by the 
middle of October  2018.
I think Admiral  should pay Mr H £750  for the great inconvenience, worry and frustration 
caused to him by garage As actions. Admiral has already  accepted that rectification work 
shouldnt have been needed.  That only addresses  one aspect  of the garages  very poor 
service. I understand why Mr H has lost all confidence in garage  A, so I think  the remaining  
work on the car should  be done  at a garage  of his choice. But I can see why Admiral  has 
concerns about  the new items  on the invoice. It seems when Mr H initially  took his car to a 
garage about the misaligned bumper and headlights, it didnt identify a fault with the 
paintwork. I think Admiral should arrange  for an independent assessor to check the damage. 
It should then pay for Mr H to have  the work done thats agreed by the assessor.           
additional costs
Mr H says he planned to end the cars finance  agreement in March 2018 and share his 
partners car instead. He says he planned  to put the savings from the car payments towards 
a mortgage. Mr H says Admiral prevented him from doing that because the car wasnt  
repaired and still isnt back in the condition it should  be in. So he thinks  it should refund the 
payments hes made from May 2018  to the date the works  done.
I understand Mr Hs frustration with the time the claim  has been ongoing and with the delays 
to the repairs. But I think he could have limited his losses by having the misaligned bumper, 
headlights and loose wire fixed by the local garage. He could  then have cancelled  the 
finance agreement, claimed  the cost of repairs back from Admiral and made a complaint  if it 
didnt agree to pay. 
Mr H may say he couldnt afford to pay for the repairs, or that he wasnt prepared to chance 
not being reimbursed for them. But I think theres  a major problem with this part of his 
complaint anyway. Mr H hasnt provided  any evidence  to show that he intended to cancel the 
finance agreement  early. In the absence of anything to support his assertion, I dont think  it 
would be reasonable for me to require Admiral to refund Mr Hs finance  payments. 
I think the same applies to the road tax and insurance costs Mr H wants  Admiral  to refund. 
Mr H was able to drive his car after the accident  until it went into the garage in June  2018.  
He was in hire or had a courtesy  car from then until September 2018 when he collected  the 
car from the garage.  Hes continued  to drive the car since  then. Mr H hasnt had to pay any 
extra motoring costs  - and he has a duty to keep his car taxed and insured. So I dont think  
Admiral should be required to refund these costs to Mr H. 
I dont think Admiral should be required to refund the £500 policy excess  Mr H paid either.  
The policy says the excess  is payable on any claim,  and thats standard  industry practice
premium
Mr H is unhappy that his premium rose greatly at renewal in October 2018. Admiral  has 
given us details  of the way it calculated the premium. The specific details cant be passed on 
to Mr H as they are commercially sensitive.  But having considered the information, the 
investigator thought  Admiral had set the increased  premium fairly. Ive also looked at the 
details provided,  and I agree. 
Ref: DRN76524735Mr H had an open claim against his policy in October  2018.  In line with industry practice,  that 
will be regarded  as a fault claim unless liability is decided in Mr Hs favour. And in 
March 2018 Mr H reported that his car had been hit by an unknown  driver. Although he didnt 
make a claim, some insurers rate such incidents when calculating the risk theyre taking on. 
All insurers are entitled to decide what to regard  as risks, whether to accept them and at 
what price.  We cant interfere unless theyve acted unreasonably. I dont think  Admiral  did.    
my conclusions
Admiral has accepted many of the criticisms Mr H made about the service it provided, about  
garage As failings and about the length  of time the claim has taken to date. It offered him 
£450 compensation from January 2018  onwards to try to put matters right. Mr H accepted 
£300 of that. But I dont  think  Admirals  total offer was enough, given the trouble and upset 
Mr H has faced. I dont think Admiral  fully appreciated some aspects of Mr Hs complaints. 
For example, he had to take time off work  several times to go to the garage. Admiral said he 
was paid by his employer for that time. Mr H hasnt shown thats not the case.  But even if his 
employer did pay him, it can still be hard to get time off. And fruitless  trips to the garage 
would have been very frustrating for Mr H nonetheless.
Ive taken into account that Mr Hs car was drivable, and that Admiral ensured he was in hire 
or provided  with a courtesy car whilst his car was in the garage. But I think  Admiral should 
pay Mr H a further £1,250 compensation to try to put matters right. Added to the £300 Mr H 
has already accepted, that would mean a total award for distress and inconvenience of 
£1,550. In my opinion,  that sum  plus Admiral paying for the repairs  still needed, as 
identified by an independent assessor,  at a garage  of Mr Hs choice - would be a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Neither Mr H nor Admiral made 
any comments.    
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party commented on my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr H a further £1,250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  (making  a 
total award of £1,550)
Arrange for an independent assessor to inspect Mr Hs car
Pay for the repairs agreed by the independent assessor to be carried out at a 
repairer of Mr Hs choice, subject to a detailed invoice  for the work   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Ref: DRN76524736Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7652473