K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs C have  made a complaint, on behalf of the estate of their late mother  Mrs A, 
about an American International Group UK Limited personal accident  insurance policy.  
background
Mrs A took out a personal accident insurance  policy which  included  cover for fractures and 
permanent disability. Mrs A had a fall which  caused  her to fracture her pelvis and ankle. 
Following this fall she moved into a care home. After Mrs A passed away Mr S made a claim 
on the insurance policy for the fractures.  AIG offered to pay around £400 for the pelvic 
fracture. Mr S also wanted  to claim under the permanent disability section of the policy  as he 
says Mrs A never  fully recovered her mobility  after the fall and she was disabled by it. He 
says the policy was mis-sold if he cant claim for her disablement on a policy which  says it is 
a Disabling Injuries Protection Plan.  
AIG assessed the claim and appointed an independent orthopaedic consultant surgeon to 
review the medical  evidence. He concluded  that Mrs A had fractured her hip and ankle but 
he didnt think the fall caused  her to be permanently and totally disabled.  So AIG declined  
the claim for permanent disability. They  said theyd  consider any further  information  Mr S 
wanted to provide, such as a further  medical  report. Mr S didnt think  that would add 
anything as the consultant  wouldnt have seen his late mother. He doesnt think  AIG used 
the right type of consultant and wants them  to contact Mrs As care home for information 
about her mobility. In their final response  letter AIG said, in summary, the claim had been 
assessed fairly. They offered to make a payment of around £80 for the ankle  fracture claim 
and £100 for a delay in the progressing of the claim.  
AIG also provided evidence Mrs A had taken out the policy after shed been  sent a mailshot.  
And they also provided information Mrs A had been  sent when the policy  was updated  more  
recently. So they didnt agree the policy was mis-sold. 
Our investigator looked in to what had happened. She concluded Mrs A had chosen to take 
out the policy after AIG had contacted her by mail shot. And, as AIG hadnt given her advice, 
she said it wasnt for AIG to look into whether the policy was right for Mrs A. She didnt think 
AIG had unreasonably rejected the claim as theyd  relied on expert evidence  to decide 
whether Mrs A met the definition of disablement. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary, he doesnt think AIG should be able to rely on the report to 
decline the claim. Hed still like them to contact the care home  and says a report  from an 
ortho-geriatric consultant  would be more appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70790302mis-sale
AIG didnt  provide  Mrs A with advice  about  the policy so they didnt need to ensure the policy 
was right for her. But they did need  to provide her with enough  information  to enable her to 
decide if the policy was right for her. Im satisfied  they provided  Mrs A with sufficient 
information to do so. 
I can also see that when  AIG updated the policy benefits they wrote  to Mrs A and explained 
the changes. They  also included an updated policy summary which  included  information 
about the key facts  and exclusions in the policy. In the section of the key facts document 
entitled Significant Exclusions and Limitations AIG explain that where the policyholder  is 
over the age of 75 the benefits will be reduced  by one third.  So I think this was drawn to 
Mrs As attention.  
the claim
The policy terms say:
Scope  in Insurance
If an insured person has an accident on or after the effective date and suffers bodily 
injury which  solely and independently of any other cause and within 12 months of the 
date of the accident causes death,  permanent disability or single or multiple 
fractures, we will pay the amount  shown in the Table  of Benefits, allowing for any 
accrued No Claims Benefit. 
Accident 
A sudden,  unexpected and specific event,  external  to the body, which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place.  
Bodily Injury
Identifiable physical  injury to an insured persons body which is caused  directly and 
solely by an accident,  is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from 
sickness or disease. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  says that AIG have a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. 
Im satisfied that AIG have handled  the claim fairly and that its not unreasonable  for them to 
reject the claim. I say that because: 
The claim was reported a number of years  after the accident  happened, and after 
Mrs A had passed away. So I dont think it was unreasonable  for AIG to instruct  a 
medical professional  to review  Mrs As notes  and assess the available  information  to 
decide whether  Mrs A had been  permanently  disabled following the fall; 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for AIG to use an orthopaedic consultant surgeon.  I 
dont think theres  anything to suggest the consultant was unsuitably qualified  to 
assess the medical evidence in this case;
Ref: DRN70790303I appreciate Mr S feels that a ortho-geriatric consultant would have  been  more 
appropriate. But I think AIG has given a reasonable explanation for not doing this. 
They approached  a consultant in this field who advised, An ortho-geriatric expert is a 
consultant who specialises  in the care of the elderly. Their  role in orthopaedic surgery 
is to advise on the medical care and social aspect for patients admitted with 
orthopaedic injuries. They  are not experts in assessing orthopaedic injuries  or 
treating orthopaedic conditions. So I think AIG has taken reasonable steps to ensure 
theyve assessed  the medical  evidence fairly; 
The consultant  AIG instructed didnt think Mrs A had been left permanently  disabled 
after the fall. He thought  it was most likely  her injuries would have healed  within  a few 
months and shed fully recovered within 12 months. He took into account,  and 
commented on, testimony from the family about her mobility.  But he concluded  Mrs A 
didnt have a persisting  disability after the accident. He also noted Mrs A had mobility 
issued before the accident. So I dont think its unreasonable  for AIG to rely on the 
experts report and decline the claim;
I dont think its necessary in the circumstances of this case  for AIG to obtain  
information from the care home.  Its unlikely theyd add any further detail to the 
information provided by the family  about Mrs As abilities after the accident. And it 
seems unlikely theyd  be able to comment on how this compared to her mobility 
before the accident. I also note AIG has said theyll consider a further  report  from a 
suitably qualified expert if Mr S wishes to obtain one. So this point doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint;
Mr S has expressed concern about the fact that AIG had arranged for one consultant 
to review the file and then changed  it. Hes concerned that this was because the 
original consultant was planning  to say the claim should be paid. AIGs records show 
that the change of consultant was down to cost, as the first consultant  increased  the 
quote significantly. Theres also no evidence to suggest the first consultant  had 
reached a conclusion or even reviewed the file at that point as hed not been 
instructed. AIG also wanted to appoint a consultant who was based near to where 
Mrs A had lived. So I dont think the change of consultant was influenced  by the 
factors Mr S has referred to. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S and Mrs C, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs A, to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7079030