K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that he wasnt  advised  by Howard  Netting  & Associates to opt back  in to his 
occupational scheme.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 1 February  2021,  which forms part of this decision.  In my
provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I invited both parties  
to provide any further evidence or arguments  that they wanted me to consider before I made 
my final decision.
Neither Howard Netting  & Associates nor Mr R has added anything  further. 
Now that both parties have had the opportunity to respond, I can proceed to making my final 
decision on this complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and in the absence of any further  points or arguments, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings in my provisional  decision. The OPS  administrator has confirmed 
that Mr R wouldve been able to re-join the scheme at the time the advice was given in 1997.  
And I remain of the view that Mr R ought to have been advice  to do so by Howard Netting & 
Associates (through  its agent, Mr S). It follows, for the reasons Ive set out, that I consider 
the advice Howard  Netting & Associates gave Mr R to increase his personal pension plan 
contributions was unsuitable.
I likewise consider £500  compensation to be a fair amount  in recognition  of the trouble  and 
upset this has caused Mr R as a result  of the uncertainty  hes experienced in relation to his 
pension income  in retirement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I direct  Howard  Netting & Associates to 
reinstate Mr R in to the OPS for the period of 18 March 1997 to 30 April 2016.
Howard Netting & Associates should obtain  the cost of reinstating Mr R back  in to the OPS
for the period of missing  service from 18 March 1997 to 30 April 2016 (A). They should also
obtain the transfer value  for the contributions Mr R made  in to his personal pension plan
during this period (B). From this, they should  arrange for Mr R to have the years of missing
service reinstated  by arranging the transfer of his personal pension plan contributions (B) to
the OPS and pay the additional amount required to cover the total cost (A-B).
The OPS  has confirmed  partial reinstatement  isnt possible. So, if full reinstatement of the
years of missing service cannot happen,  the compensation should be paid in to Mr Rs
personal pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available
tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the personal pension plan if it would conflict with
Ref: DRN73815912any existing protection  or allowance.
If a payment  into the personal pension plan isnt possible  or if it has protection  or allowance
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making  a notional
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss
would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed  according to his likely income tax rate in
retirement  presumed  to be 20%.  So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the
loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mr R within  90 days of the date Howard
Netting & Associates receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.  Further
interest must  be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess  of 90 days, that
it takes it to pay Mr R this compensation.
Howard Netting & Associates should also pay Mr R £500 for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay
the balance.
award: I award compensation in line with the steps above, up to a total of £150,000.
recommendation:
If the amount of compensation exceeds  £150,000, I recommend that Howard Netting & 
Associates pays the balance required  to provide Mr R with reinstatement for the period of 
missing service. Alternatively, if reinstatement  isnt possible, Howard Netting & Associates 
should pay Mr R the balance notionally adjusted for tax plus any interest on the balance as 
set out above.
Ref: DRN73815913This recommendation doesnt form part of my determination or award. It doesnt bind
Howard Netting & Associates. It is unlikely  Mr R would be able to accept my decision and go
to court  to ask for the balance above the £150,000. Mr R may want  to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before [4 weeks].
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73815914Copy of provisional  decision  of 1 February  2021
complaint
Mr R complains that he wasnt  advised  by Howard  Netting  & Associates to opt back  in to his 
occupational scheme.
background
In 1992 Mr R was advised  to opt-out of his occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) and to set 
up a personal pension plan instead.  The advisor, Mr S, didnt work for Howard Netting & 
Associates but worked for a different firm at this time.
Mr R met with Mr S again in 1997 and he was advised to increase his contributions  to the 
pension plan. The plans fund choice was also switched along  with a waiver  of premium 
being set up. 
Mr R re-joined the OPS  in 2016  and contacted our service  about his dissatisfaction with the 
advice he received from Mr S to invest in the pension plan rather  than join his employers 
OPS. He complained  to Howard Netting & Associates in 2017 about the advice he received 
in 1997 from Mr S to increase his pension  plan contributions instead of opting back  in to the 
OPS.
In June 2018 the OPS confirmed that Mr Rs missing service,  from 18 March 1997  to 30 April 
2016, can be reinstated.  At that time the cost was calculated at about £361,000 but this 
figure is now no longer  guaranteed. The OPS also confirmed that partial reinstatement isnt 
possible  as they wouldnt be able to determine  which period of service it would cover.  
Mr Rs personal  pension  plan was valued at about  £202,000 in September  2018.
I issued provisional  decisions on 21 September 2018 and 14 April 2020  saying the advice 
Mr S provided, on behalf of Howard Netting & Associates, was unsuitable. My provisional 
decision of 14 April 2020 said:
findings on the merits of the complaint
In my provisional decision of 21 September 2018 I explained that there  is limited  
information available from the time of advice. And so, in the absence of a fact find or 
recommendation letter, its unclear why Mr R was advised to remain opted out of his 
OPS. The only document  indicating  a reason is a letter of 23 June  1997.  This 
confirms the actions taken at that time were due to Mr R expressing  a concern about 
his income in retirement. So a decision was made to increase contributions  and, in 
attempt to improve investment performance, a fund switch.
The application form for the waiver  of premium, which was also set up at the time of 
the 1997 advice, shows Mr Rs employment  remained the same as from when the 
original advice was provided in 1992. Im therefore satisfied Mr S knew Mr R had the 
Ref: DRN73815915option of re-joining the OPS. I havent however seen anything to support Mr S 
recommendation for Mr R to increase his contributions to the personal  pension plan 
rather than opt back in to the OPS. And whether advice was sought by Mr R or 
offered by Mr S, I consider it was incumbent on Mr S to act in Mr Rs best interests  by 
making him aware of what he would be losing out on if he didnt re-join the OPS.  In 
my view he should have  firmly recommended Mr R do so.
By the time of the 1997 top up, an industry-wide review had already been established 
to investigate cases where people had (amongst  other things) opted out of, or failed 
to join, a defined  benefit OPS. And the conclusion that in the vast majority of cases  
they had been wrongly  advised to do so was now inescapable. I think  that issue 
should have weighed heavily on what Mr R should  have been  advised to do in this 
case.
I think it is also relevant for me to reiterate  that the OPS  available to Mr R wouldve 
provided him guaranteed  benefits in retirement whereas the personal pension  plan 
was dependant on investment growth and future  annuity rates. A defined benefits 
OPS is effectively subsidised by the employer  in that it contributes  to the scheme, 
over and above any amount Mr R would have been required  to pay in, to ensure the 
guaranteed benefits can be funded  whatever the investment conditions  up to 
retirement. Theres no evidence that Mr S considered the level of this subsidy and 
whether he could justify  Mr R giving this up by remaining opted-out.
So, given Mr R had expressed clear concerns about his income in retirement, I 
consider the increased security of future  retirement income offered by the OPS 
wouldve been valuable  to him. And in the absence of anything to show otherwise, 
Im not persuaded there was enough  benefit  for Mr R to have remained opted out of 
the OPS.
I therefore remain of the view that the advice for Mr R to increase his personal 
pension plan contributions was unsuitable.
compensation for non-financial loss
Ive also considered the impact this matter has had on Mr R. Having done so, I think  
it has caused him a considerable  amount of trouble and upset due to the uncertainty  
of what of pension  income  he will receive  in retirement.  To recognise this, I think  an 
additional £500 compensation would be fair in the circumstances.
Howard Netting & Associates representatives,  whom Ill refer to as W, disagreed  with me. 
They raised various points for my consideration but, in particular, they argued that Howard  
Netting & Associates isnt responsible for the advice Mr R received in 1997. They said Mr S 
wasnt an employee of Howard  Netting  & Associates and so disputed liability for the advice 
given to Mr R. Further  to this, W also questioned our services jurisdiction to determine  this 
complaint.
I issued a decision on 1 December 2020  saying  Howard Netting & Associates is responsible 
for the advice Mr R received in 1997 and that this is a complaint we can consider  against 
that firm. And, in short, I concluded  the following in my decision:
I do not believe a hearing is required in order for me to fairly determine this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN73815916Howard Netting & Associates was, in accordance with the Transitional Provisions 
Order, subject to a former scheme immediately before commencement and 
thereby subject to the compulsory jurisdiction of our service.
This complaint has been brought in time and that it wouldnt be fair to apply the 
long stop in these  circumstances.
I dont think there  is a reasonable basis on which I should cap Mr Rs 
compensation (should a money award be made in his favour) at the limit 
applicable to the Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau  (PIAOB).
Im satisfied  that Howard Netting & Associates  has legal responsibility for the 
advice given to Mr R, whether by way of implied  actual  authority, apparent  
authority, or ratification
Mr R has confirmed that he hasnt  yet taken an income from his personal pension  plan. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. I have also taken into account the determination the former  ombudsman (the PIAOB) 
might have been expected to reach and what compensation  (if any) he might  have  been  
expected to award.  
As part of my consideration of the relevant law, I have again  considered  Howard Netting & 
Associates views in connection  with the application  of the long stop applicable under the 
Limitation Act 1980. My previous views on its application were contained in my decisions of 
14 April 2020 and 1 December 2020.  I have  considered it again in line with my obligation to 
take account of relevant law when determining the fair and reasonable outcome of this 
complaint (DISP3.6.4R). Having done so, I remain of the view that it would not be fair in all 
the circumstances to impose  a long stop to defeat  Mr Rs complaint. This is for all the 
reasons I have outlined in my previous decisions, but in particular my decision of 14 April 
2020.  
I turn now to my consideration of the merits of Mr Rs complaint. As things  stand, Im 
currently minded to reach the same  outcome  that I provisionally set out in my decision of 14 
April 2020. Ill explain why. 
There hasnt been any further evidence put forward by Howard Netting & Associates to 
indicate why Mr R was advised to increase his personal pension plan contributions, 
alongside a fund switch to improve investment performance, rather than opt back into the 
OPS. And, as Ive previously explained,  I think Mr S ought to have known at the time of the 
1997 advice  given the compulsory industry-wide pension  review  that opting out of an 
OPS wasnt suitable  in the vast majority  of cases. It therefore follows that upon  Mr R 
expressing concerns  about his income  in retirement,  evidenced by the letter  of 23 June 
1997, I consider  Mr S shouldve advised him that re-joining the OPS would be in his best 
interests given the security it provided by way of the guaranteed benefits it offered. 
The OPS  administrator has also confirmed that Mr R wouldve been  able to re-join  the 
scheme at the time the advice was given in 1997.  
Ref: DRN73815917In forming my view that Howard  Netting  & Associates  failed to give suitable advice to Mr R in 
1997 I take account of the fact that, although Mr S was the adviser who originally 
recommended to Mr R that he should opt out of his OPS in 1992, Mr S was not working with 
Howard Netting & Associates at the time but with a different principal firm. Mr Rs complaint 
in connection  with that advice (against this other  firm) was considered by our service  and 
compensation payable in connection with that complaint was capped  at the date Mr S gave 
further advice  in March 1997  on behalf  of Howard  Netting & Associates.
  
In turn, I acknowledge  that Howard  Netting  & Associates  is not responsible for the original 
advice to Mr R to opt out of his OPS. However,  Mr R says he suffered loss as a result  of 
Howard Netting & Associates failure  (through its agent, Mr S) to advise him to re-join  his 
OPS in 1997. The question is whether it is fair and reasonable to hold Howard Netting & 
Associates responsible for that loss, given that the inception of the loss was the opt-out 
advice of another firm. 
Im aware that the scope of Mr Ss duty to give suitable advice to Mr R will depend  in large  
part on the scope  of Mr Rs request  for advice in 1997. As I say, there is a limited amount of 
information available in connection with the 1997 advice  although  what is available is 
helpful as far as it goes. I can see that there is:
A statement from Mr S saying in 1997   whilst  an appointed  representative  of 
Howard Netting I gave pension advice to [Mr] R.
A statement from Mr R, in response  to what was discussed in the 1997 meeting, in 
which he says:
we discussed whether my [personal  pension plan provider] pension was on 
track the meet the projections Mr S told me it would when he sold it to me. It 
seemed that that would not be the case so the outcome was to increase my 
contributions. The discussions were led by Mr S, as far as I was aware he 
had the appropriate qualifications and I trusted him.
A letter of 23 June 1997 from Mr S addressed to Mr R. This letter confirms the 
actions taken at that time were due to Mr R expressing a concern about his income  in 
retirement. So, a decision  was made to increase contributions and, in attempt to 
improve investment performance, a fund switch.
From this, it is my view that Mr R was not asking Mr S to revisit his opt-out advice from 1992.  
Or, that he was asking  him to review  that advice in order to determine whether it was 
suitable for him. The gist of Mr Ss retainer in 1997  was to address Mr Rs concerns about 
his income in retirement. This was more in the way of a request for prospective advice  i.e. 
advice on the way forward so that he might maximise the value of his retirement  benefits.
Mr R says that he should have been  told to re-join his OPS  and so not advised to increase  
his contributions to the personal  pension  plan, or to switch  the fund choice and implement a 
waiver of premium. As I say, I agree with Mr R that Mr Ss failure to recommend re-joining 
the OPS meant that his advice was unsuitable, and this is for all the reasons outlined  in my 
provisional decision of 14 April 2020.   
Im also satisfied that if Mr S had advised Mr R to re-join  his OPS, then Mr R would have  
done so and the shortfall he now faces  in his retirement would not have been incurred. In 
saying that, I note that Mr R did in fact re-join his OPS in 2016, after being advised  by 
another financial adviser  that the decision to opt out of the OPS had left him in a far worse 
Ref: DRN73815918position than if hed stayed in the scheme.  In turn, I have  no reason to believe  Mr R wouldnt 
have re-joined the OPS had he received similar advice, in that it wasnt in his best interests 
to remain opted  out, in 1997.
It follows that in the absence  of any evidence to support  Mr S recommendation, I remain of 
the view that Mr R ought to have been advised  to opt back  into his OPS. Because  of this, I 
consider the advice Mr S gave Mr R to increase his personal pension  plan contributions was 
unsuitable.
Howard Netting & Associates has previously  said that it does not regard it as fair that the 
firm responsible for the initial  opt-out  advice  should only be required to compensate Mr R for 
the loss he suffered up to the date of the 1997  advice. Thereby leaving Howard Netting & 
Associates to meet the loss suffered after that date. I have given this issue careful thought  
and, while  I agree that Mr Rs loss would not have come about at all had it not been  for the 
original advice in 1992, I am equally aware  that any ongoing loss suffered by Mr R could 
have been avoided if Mr S  while  working for Howard Netting & Associates - had advised 
him to re-join  his OPS.  It is therefore in my view fair and reasonable that Howard Netting & 
Associates should  account to Mr R in full for the loss he is now claiming  from the date of the 
1997 advice.  
I similarly remain of the view that Mr R has suffered considerable  trouble  and upset as a 
result of Howard Netting  & Associates advice and the uncertainty  surrounding  his pension 
income in retirement.  And so, I consider £500 compensation would be a fair amount to 
recognise this in the circumstances.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Rs complaint. I intend to order that Howard 
Netting & Associates should reinstate Mr R in to the OPS for the period of 18 March 1997 to 
30 April 2016.
Howard Netting & Associates should obtain  the cost of reinstating Mr R back  in to the OPS
for the period of missing  service from 18 March 1997 to 30 April 2016 (A). They should also
obtain the transfer value  for the contributions Mr R made  in to his personal pension plan
during this period (B). From this, they should  arrange for Mr R to have the years of missing
service reinstated  by arranging the transfer of his personal pension plan contributions (B) to
the OPS and pay the additional amount required to cover the total cost (A-B).
The OPS  has confirmed  partial reinstatement  isnt possible. So, if full reinstatement of the
years of missing service cannot happen,  the compensation should be paid in to Mr Rs
personal pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available
tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the personal pension plan if it would conflict with
any existing protection  or allowance.
If a payment  into the personal pension plan isnt possible  or if it has protection  or allowance
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making  a notional
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss
would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed  according to his likely income tax rate in
retirement  presumed  to be 20%.  So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the
loss adequately reflects this.
Ref: DRN73815919The compensation must where possible be paid to Mr R within  90 days of the date Howard
Netting & Associates receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.  Further
interest must  be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess  of 90 days, that
it takes it to pay Mr R this compensation.
Howard Netting & Associates should also pay Mr R £500 for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay
the balance.
award: I intend to award compensation in line with the steps above, up to a total of 
£150,000.
recommendation:
If the amount of compensation exceeds  £150,000, I also intend to recommend that Howard 
Netting & Associates pays the balance required to provide Mr R with reinstatement for the 
period of missing  service.  Alternatively,  if reinstatement isnt possible,  Howard  Netting & 
Associates should  pay Mr R the balance notionally adjusted for tax plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
This recommendation wont  form part of my determination or award. It wont bind
Howard Netting & Associates. It is unlikely  Mr R would be able to accept my decision and go
to court  to ask for the balance above the £150,000. Mr R may want  to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my decision.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381591