K821x#15complaint
Mr K complained that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid)  irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr K said regular loans  were being  taken out showing hed become dependent on this sort 
of borrowing. He also said that proper checks werent done and further checks werent 
carried out as the borrowing continued. 
Mr K wants  the balance written off and a refund of the interest  and extra charges he paid. 
 
background
QuickQuid agreed nine loans for Mr K from September  2011  to July 2013.  Mr K has 
withdrawn his complaint  about his first loan.  
In my decision Im looking at eight loans  Mr K took out with QuickQuid between May 2012  
and July 2013.
Mr K took out loans  that ranged between £50 and £100 and he always repaid  these  on time. 
Theres a table at the end of my decision setting out loan details  when I say loan 1 etc. 
Im referring to the loan number thats shown in the table at the end of my decision:
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ks complaint and thought the loan taken out by Mr K on 
11/01/2013 (loan 4 in my table) and all the lending  that followed (loans 5-8 in my table)  
shouldnt have been lent to Mr K.
QuickQuid disagreed. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was partially to uphold  this 
complaint. Here are some of the main things I said. 
QuickQuid needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN75280092the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending history  with Mr K to see if there  was 
a point at which QuickQuid reasonably shouldve seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Thats when QuickQuid shouldve  realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
I dont think QuickQuid was wrong  to give the first four loans to Mr K. Looking  at the amounts 
Mr K needed  to repay, what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time, and his 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for QuickQuid  to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable. 
And it doesnt look like there  was anything in the information Mr K provided  or the 
information QuickQuid  shouldve been aware  of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate  
to start verifying what he was saying.  
In saying his, Ive taken into account  that by loan 4 our adjudicator thought that Mr K had 
reached the tipping point  at which his lending looked like it was unsustainable given that hed 
borrowed 5 loans over 7 months.  But loan 4 was the lowest value loan. And hed taken  it out 
after a gap of around 6 weeks  or so over Christmas  and New Year, when its reasonable to 
think that Mr Ks finances mightve been  stretched. He repaid this borrowing (plus  a small 
amount of interest) within 4 days.  So I dont think QuickQuid acted unfairly when it lent 
loan 4 to Mr K.
Ref: DRN75280093But, looking  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids  lending history with Mr K, I think by loan 5 
when Mr K borrowed another £50, the lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. By now, QuickQuid  was able to see signs  
that suggested Mr K was becoming dependent on the high cost short term credit  it provided. 
I say this because  by the time Mr K took out loan 5 hed already been borrowing expensive  
short term loans for more than seven months   and barely 3 weeks had gone by since  hed 
paid off the last loan before he was applying to borrow  from QuickQuid  again.  And he then 
applied within a week or so of taking  out loan 5 to top up his loan with another £50.
Ive taken into account that QuickQuid says Mr K had a model repayment history which 
included no late fees. And, at no point during his lending  history did he advise QuickQuid he 
was struggling to cover his repayments. But I think by loan 5 QuickQuid  shouldve  been 
concerned that Mr K was facing serious problems managing his money. 
By loan 5, Mr Ks overall pattern of borrowing suggested that hed become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. In my view, the pattern of lending  itself shows that by loan 5 and 
onwards that borrowing was unsustainable  for Mr K - so I dont think  QuickQuid shouldve 
given Mr K loans 5 through to 8. 
I think that QuickQuid shouldve concluded  that the lending history  alone indicated that the 
borrowing was unsustainable.  I say this because:
there werent any significant gaps between loans being  repaid and a new loan being  
granted. So I dont  think  it wouldve  been  reasonable for QuickQuid to conclude  that 
Mr Ks finances had moved  on from whatever  situation  had required his previous 
loans. 
By the time Mr K asked for loan 5 hed been  borrowing  from QuickQuid repeatedly 
and in very quick succession and he wasnt making any inroads into the amount he 
owed the lender.  By then Mr K had again  paid a considerable amount of interest to 
QuickQuid to effectively service a debt over an extended period.
I think that Mr K lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which he took out short term credit was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
I dont think that the gap between loan 7 being  paid and loan 8 starting  is sufficient for me to 
say this was a break in the chain  of lending. And whilst Ive taken into account what 
QuickQuid says, including comments made  in response to the adjudicators  view letter, this 
doesnt affect my overall view for the reasons Ive explained. 
So Im planning  on upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 through to loan 8 and tell 
QuickQuid it should  steps to put things right.
Ref: DRN75280094what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr K has confirmed  that he is happy  with what I've said in my provisional decision.
QuickQuid says it has no additional points to add to the case and will await  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that affect my overall  view,  I still think its fair to uphold this complaint  for 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right
I dont think QuickQuid should have agreed  to give Mr K:
loan 5 (04/02/2013) through to loan 8 (12/07/2013)
So for each of those  loans  QuickQuid  should: 
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  5 to 8 should be removed from Mr Ks credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN75280095my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) to pay Mr K 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Heres a table showing  details of the loans mentioned in my decision.  
Ref: DRN75280096Loan no
START LOAN TYPE
AMOUNT £
PAID 
Loan 1
09/05/2012 Principal 100 29/06/2012
Loan 2
01/07/2012 Principal 100 31/08/2012
Loan 3
31/08/2012 Principal 50
5/9/2012 Top up 50 30/11/2012
Loan 4
11/01/2013 Principal 50 15/01/2013
Loan 5
04/02/2013 Principal 50
11/02/2013 Top up 50 28/02/2013
Loan 6
04/03/2013 Principal 100
28/03/2013
Loan 7
28/03/2013 Principal 100 06/04/2013
Loan 8
12/07/2013 Open ended credit (up to 
£750)
Various amounts between 50-100 borrowed
ran from 
July 2013 
until August 
2014
Ref: DRN7528009