K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  him an Additions 
account in June 1999. Mr A has said that he did not agree to the upgrade and was not 
informed of the alternatives.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  already  he did not think that this account 
was mis-sold. Mr A did not agree with this and therefore his complaint has been passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
I note that Mr A has also complained about  a loan and about  the service  he received from 
Barclays while he made his complaint. This decision will only be looking at the sale of the 
packaged bank  account. In relation to the loan Barclays has said that this issue was 
resolved in December 2018, but I understand that Mr A does not think that this is the case. 
In this instance Mr A would need to either refer this back  to Barclays,  if he wants  to pursue 
this further. Alternatively,  he can contact us and we can look into this separately. In relation 
to his issues regarding  the service he received during  the complaint process he would have 
to first direct this to Barclays  as it has not investigated this matter  and we cant  investigate 
issues until a business has had a chance  to look into them first. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen, and having  done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
From what  Ive seen, Mr A initially upgraded to the Additions account from a free one he had 
held for several  years. So, I think that he wouldve known  Barclays did offer free accounts 
and that he couldve  had one of those  if thats what he really wanted.
Mr A has said that he did not agree to this upgrade and his account was changed  without his 
knowledge. But I do not think it is likely that this was the case. To explain,  when Mr A was 
sold the Additions account  it didnt include any insurance benefits  (these  were  added some 
years later), but it did offer overdraft benefits.  And at this time Barclays  did charge its free 
account holders  a £5 a month  overdraft  usage  fee each month they used their overdraft. And 
if they were overdrawn,  Barclays free accountholders wouldve also paid interest on any 
overdrawn balance. Based on what I know about  the Additions account,  one of its benefits at 
the time was that it allowed an account holder to not pay the £5 a month fee and included  an 
interest free overdraft  amount  of £100. This means  that anyone  who was using an overdraft, 
or who was likely to regularly use an overdraft would pay the Additions monthly account  fee 
instead of the overdraft  usage fee, but would also receive the benefit of the £100 interest 
free overdraft benefit, if they upgraded.
Ref: DRN72913732Mr As account ledgers  show  that he had an overdraft which he had starting using with 
increased frequency prior to the upgrade. And the ledgers also show  that Mr A was paying 
the £5 a month overdraft  usage fee in the months leading up to this account being upgraded 
and continued  to use his overdraft regularly  after the upgrade. So looking at Mr As use of the 
overdraft it seems more likely than not that he agreed to the upgrade, albeit  in circumstances 
he no longer recalls in order  to save money on a monthly basis  on his overdraft.
Barclays has said that it did not make a personal  recommendation that Mr A take out the 
account. Mr A has explained  that he cannot recall  the sale clearly  but he feels that Barclays  
would have emphasised the benefits  that the account came with. But I havent  seen  anything  
to suggest that a detailed  assessment  of Mr As circumstances was carried out, which  is 
what shouldve happened if the account had been  personally recommended  to him. So 
overall I am satisfied that no personal  recommendation was made.  Given this Barclays did 
not have to check if the account was right for Mr A and it was up to him to decide this for 
himself. But Barclays did have to provide  him with enough information to do this.
As I have already  explained I think that Mr A did use the main benefit that the account came 
with and that I think this was the main reason the account was taken out. The other benefits that 
the account came with included cardholder protection and extended warranty  and I accept that 
they may have been of limited usefulness  to Mr A and he may not have been told everything  
about these benefits. That said, I do not think that Mr A took out the account for these benefits 
or that further  information about them wouldve  altered his decision to take out the account.
I can see that Mr A in his initial complaint documentation referred to the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin  v Paragon Personal Finance Limited. That case  concerned  the sale of a 
PPI policy  alongside  a loan. The Supreme Court ruled in Plevin that the failure by the lender 
to disclose to Mrs Plevin the large  commissions payable out of her PPI premium made the 
lenders relationship "unfair" under s.140A  of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
I am satisfied that this complaint  is about  a different product, funded in a different way, to the 
facts of the Plevin case. So the situation  is different and I dont think the findings in Plevin 
change my view about  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
I want to reassure Mr A that Ive looked at all the information provided  about his complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything hes said. Although I appreciate  this will be very 
disappointing for him, I dont think that Barclays mis-sold  the Additions account  to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr As to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020. 
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7291373