K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with their home insurer U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) in 
connection with a claim they made  to it following a fire at their home.  
background
There was a fire in March  2016 and a claim made  to UKI. The claim didnt progress as 
planned. Mr and Mrs T have reported issues at the outset with alternative accommodation 
not being offered, they say communication was poor and various  problems arose with the 
progress of the repairs, as well as the repairs themselves. They  made a number of 
complaints to UKI.
UKI issued  several  final responses; its last but one in May 2017.  This letter  acknowledged  
thered been issues with the service provided  and offered £500  compensation. It also 
confirmed that a surveyor would attend  to assess the outstanding repair issues.  
A surveyor did attend in May 2017.  UKI received his report  in early June. In August 2017  
Mr and Mrs T chased UKI as theyd heard nothing further. In a final response issued in 
September 2017 UKI noted its representative hadnt contacted Mr and Mrs T, it apologised 
and offered a further £500 compensation. In October an agreement was reached regarding a 
settlement for the works and Mr and Mrs T told UKI theyd  complain  to us.
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs T made  a complaint to this service. They set out what had 
happened, from their perspective,  from the outset of the claim until theyd chased  UKI in 
August 2017 regarding  the surveyors report. They explained how UKI had failed them  and 
the upset this had caused. UKI told us it felt the complaint  had been  made  out of time and 
that it would  only consent to us considering  the complaint as it related to its failure to handle  
the surveyors report properly. My ombudsman colleague considered  the jurisdiction point 
and found that we could  only look at the issue surrounding the surveyors report.
Our investigator looked into that issue. She felt that UKI had failed Mr and Mrs T but that its 
offer of £500 compensation to make up for that was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs T said they thought it was wrong for us to condone what  they saw as a bribe, 
which in their view UKI had offered to stop them from insisting on having a surveyor  attend 
and report. And they said, regardless, £500 was insufficient given what theyd been through.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs T have been through an awful  experience which  may well not 
have been helped by the way UKI handled their claim. But I cant look at that. My review has 
to be very narrow because their complaint was made  too long after UKI issued its final 
responses. Again, I appreciate how frustrating and unfair Mr and Mrs T feel this decision is 
but we have to abide  by the rules that govern our service;  which  my colleague explained  in 
his decision on the time limit issue.
Ref: DRN71773362I note what Mr and Mrs T say about a bribe.  But I think  they are confusing the two offers of 
£500 that UKI made.  I think  their reference is regarding the first offer which was made 
around the time of the surveyors visit in May 2017.  That offer is part of the complaint which 
is out of time, and which Im therefore not considering. The £500 compensation offer that our 
investigator considered  dated from September 2017, after the surveyor  had been.  And was 
made specifically for the upset caused  by UKIs poor handling of matters following  his report 
being made.
Turning to that issue; UKI knew how badly Mr and Mrs T felt this claim had been handled  it 
had even acknowledged that to some extent in the May 2017 response. Yet when the 
surveyor made his report nothing was done. I appreciate the main  handler was on leave and 
someone else dealing  with it wasnt fully versed on the claim.  But that just isnt good enough 
in my view  not in the circumstances here, especially not when UKI had already admitted 
claim handling/communication failures in a recent  (at that time) final response. UKI should  
have made  sure, at that stage, to manage  the claim better  if it had it could have avoided  
causing more  upset to its policyholders  following what had already been, by all accounts, a 
very difficult and trying  time.
I think it was very upsetting for Mr and Mrs T to be left alone again  at this stage in the 
proceedings. I understand that hearing nothing and waiting still whilst hearing nothing  was 
frustrating. And that it was upsetting  as well as inconvenient for Mr and Mrs T, once they 
gave up waiting, to have to chase UKI for an update.
For its part though,  UKI has acknowledged its failure here. Its apologised and offered £500  
compensation. For what happened in relation to this incident only and the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs T were  caused as a result, I think thats  fair and reasonable. As 
Ive explained  I cant look at the wider  complaint and whilst I know  that is frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs T that naturally means  that my findings  here are limited.  
To be clear, my findings reflect that UKI failed Mr and Mrs T but because  UKI has made a 
fair and reasonable offer of compensation I have to record that their complaint is not upheld. 
I understand that UKI has already made payment to them. If this isnt the case,  or payment 
has been made by a cheque which hasnt been  cashed and is now expired, Mr and Mrs T 
should contact  UKI if they want to receive  this money.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2018.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7177336