K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about their home  insurer,  Fairmead Insurance Limited,  
because having  initially accepted their claim made  for a burglary, it declined  it.
Mr and Mrs Hs overall  complaint is much wider  than this. But this is the part of it that relates 
to Fairmead as their home insurer.
background
Mr and Mrs H arranged their insurance through a broker. The policy began on 
16 November 2018. On 17 November 2018  Mr and Mrs H were burgled whist  they had left 
the house to go out for a few hours. They  contacted Fairmead on 20 November and told it 
about the claim. There were three contents items lost due to or damaged during the theft 
(one being a Rolex  watch)  and a damaged fence panel. Other items taken by the thieves 
had been found undamaged or were covered by other insurance. The fence panel was 
damaged to gain entry  into the back garden  but thieves entered  the house by bi-fold doors  
which were unlocked. 
Fairmead noted its file on 21 November in respect  of there  being  a safe clause on the policy  
and a security/protection clause. The former requiring jewellery  items  to be kept in a safe  
but Mr Hs Rolex had been stolen from his bedside  table.  The latter requiring all doors to be 
locked when the property is unoccupied. 
However, on 22 November, Fairmead  called Mr H and said it would settle in cash for two of 
the items  and appoint  a jewellery  expert to replace the Rolex. Payment was duly made to 
Mr H. The expert was also appointed, but Fairmead  instructed  the expert to hold its activity 
whilst it reviewed its position  on the claim.
On 23 November Fairmead decided to decline Mr and Mrs Hs claim in its entirety.  A letter  
was sent to Mr and Mrs H explaining Fairmeads position was based on the policy clauses 
for keeping  items in a safe and the security  clause. Fairmead sent this to Mr and Mr H and a 
copy to their broker. Mr and Mrs H didnt receive  this letter.  
But also on 23 November Fairmead  spoke to Mr and Mrs H. In this call reference was made  
to declining  the part of the claim for the watch on grounds of the safe clause. The security 
clause wasnt mentioned. Mr and Mrs H noted  they had told their broker  they did not have a 
safe so they complained to it. 
On 12 December 2018 the broker replied  to Mr and Mrs H. It referred  to having seen a 
decline letter  from their insurer. About a month later it sent them  a copy of that letter. 
In the meantime Fairmead,  having received some challenge to its decline from 
Mr and Mrs Hs broker, issued a final response  setting  out its final position on the claim.  
Fairmead said the whole claim was declined by virtue of the security  clause not having  been 
met. Fairmead said its payment for two of the three  items had been a mistake. 
Mr and Mrs H felt this was unfair.  They said Fairmead had entered into a binding contract to 
settle the claim and it seemed it had only decided  to change its mind when it realised the 
cost of replacing the Rolex. Mr and Mrs H felt that Fairmead, by acting  to settle the claim on 
terms had legally waived  its right to decline it (on other terms).
Ref: DRN76399702Upon review our investigator ultimately  felt the complaint should be upheld  in part. She 
noted that Fairmead had agreed to settle but accepted this had been a mistake which it had 
rectified before Mr and Mrs H suffered any financial loss as a result.  As such, she explained,  
Fairmead had only caused  them a loss of expectation and it should compensate for that by 
paying them  £150.
Fairmead didnt reply.  Mr and Mrs H said that allowing  Fairmeads actions to stand with just 
a small payment of compensation being made was unacceptable. They  said this would not 
discourage Fairmead  from acting  this way again. They felt that, as the regulator, our job is to 
prevent bad behaviour. Overall Mr and Mrs H felt it didnt make  sense that all Fairmead 
would have to pay is compensation  when it had clearly entered  into an agreement  to settle 
the claim.  The complaint was passed to me to decide.
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a distressing situation for Mr and Mrs H  to realise they had been 
burgled, and then to realise they were  not going to receive cover  for their lost items.  
Particularly when Fairmead  had led them  to believe everything was going  to be settled. 
I also know that they have been  further  aggrieved by their broker as all parties  seem  to 
agree that this policy as arranged for them was unsuitable because  they dont  have a safe 
and had told the broker that. But by virtue of the way insurance contracts work, Fairmead is 
not responsible  for the brokers actions  in this scenario. The broker is not Fairmeads agent. 
Id also note at this point that we are not the regulator. That is the financial conduct authority 
(FCA). Our role is to provide an informal alternative dispute resolution service.  So we dont  
make awards to punish businesses or to prevent them from acting in certain  ways  in the 
future. Our awards  are designed to create fair and reasonable outcomes for complaints 
which put the complainant back in the position  they would always have been in but for any 
mistake the business  in question made.
Here Fairmeads mistake was in agreeing  cover was in place when it had been  told quite 
clearly during the notification of loss call that the property had been left insecure when the 
family went out for the evening.  Fairmead  was told that not only had the bi-fold doors  been  
unlocked (which the thieves entered and exited through), but that the propertys intruder 
alarm had not been engaged either.  Those two facts should  have  been  sufficient to raise 
warning flags with its advisor, such that no indication that the claim would likely be met was 
given. Instead  the advisor talked about  checking policy limits  and asked for evidence  of the 
stolen items  to be presented. 
Further, whilst Fairmeads own notes clearly  documented the relevant clauses which  might  
prevent cover, another advisor gave  further  assurances to Mr H that the claim had been 
accepted.
In addition, when  Fairmead eventually acted  to advise Mr H that there was a problem, only 
the safe clause was mentioned  even though a letter had been sent by it that same day 
which referred to both clauses. I can quite understand  why Mr and Mrs H have been so 
frustrated by this whole process. I am satisfied that Fairmead did fail them.
Ref: DRN76399703But Fairmeads failure was to mislead  Mr H that the claim would be settled. When  Fairmead 
corrected its position  Mr and Mrs H hadnt  lost anything, other  than the expectation which  
Fairmead had created  that their claim would be paid. For that loss it must compensate them.  
Im satisfied that requiring Fairmead to pay £150  compensation  to Mr and Mrs H is a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances given the error Fairmead made.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639970