K821x#15complaint
Miss Z says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 5 six-month instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss Z 
between July 2014 and November 2014. This is a summary of Miss Zs lending history  from 
Lending Stream. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 02/07/2014 25/07/2014 300
2 27/07/2014 28/11/2014 350
3 27/10/2014 25/06/2015 250
4 03/11/2014 25/06/2015 300
5 21/11/2014 28/11/2014 50
Our adjudicator thought loan 5 shouldnt have been given. Lending Stream accepted this 
conclusion, but Miss Z didnt. She said her financial  situation  was the same from July to 
November 2014  and her credit  report would have showed Lending Stream  she had multiple 
other payday loans  and was in financial difficulties. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Miss Z could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN72288302There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Miss Z could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Zs complaint.
I think Lending Stream carried  out proportionate  checks for loans 1 to 3 - there  was nothing 
to indicate Lending Stream needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. And whilst I 
dont think Lending  Stream carried  out proportionate checks  for loan 4 I havent seen 
anything in the available evidence to suggest that it would  have made a different lending 
decision had it done so. 
I know Miss Z says her credit report would have shown Lending Stream all her debts so it 
lent irresponsibly. Lending Stream completed credit checks before approving loans 1 to 4 
and Ive looked carefully at the information  it had. I would add here that the information  
Lending Stream saw may not be exactly the same  as what Miss Z would be able to see on 
her credit report. Overall,  I dont think there  was anything  in the information Lending Stream 
saw that should have  led it to automatically  decline Miss Zs applications for loans 1 to 4.
So like our adjudicator  I dont think Lending Stream was wrong  to give loans 1 to 4 to Miss Z.
By loan 5, however, I do think there were clear signs that Miss Z was struggling to manage 
her money. I note Loan 5 was for a lower value,  but it did increase her overall indebtedness.  
When Miss Z applied for loan 4 she already had three outstanding loans with Lending  
Stream. I think this should have suggested  to Lending  Stream  that her finances were  under 
pressure. And Miss Z was most  likely not borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in her 
income but to meet an ongoing need, meaning that this loan was unlikely  to be sustainably  
affordable for Miss Z. At this point I think it should  have stopped lending  to Miss Z. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 onwards, and Lending  Stream should put things 
right. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss Z paid on loan 5;
Ref: DRN72288303pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Miss Zs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending  Stream 
must give Miss Z a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Zs complaint. Gain  Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should  pay Miss Z compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7228830