K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly increased their 
home insurance premium  following their reporting of a potential claim under their policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs T first took out home  insurance with Tesco in 2014.  At the start of October 2018, 
Tesco sent them their annual policy renewal invitation. About two weeks  later they called 
Tesco to discuss the renewal and as a result a loyalty discount was applied making their 
premium for the coming year £194.00. Mr and Mrs T confirmed to Tesco the following day 
they were happy  to proceed with the renewal on 2 November 2018. Payment was taken for 
the full annual premium.
On 30 October they called Tescos claims team to report an incident   storm damage to a 
roof. The claims team confirmed that the weather at the time of the damage  didnt equate  to 
a storm so the claim was declined. The claims team  told the renewal  team about the 
notification of the incident. As the incident happened  before the renewal date the underwriter  
recalculated the forthcoming renewal price. An additional premium  (AP) of £40.48  was 
applied to the policy and notified to Mr and Mrs T. Tesco told Mr and Mrs T that if they didnt 
pay the AP the policy  could  be cancelled.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy that Tesco was trying to charge them an AP especially as what  
happened with the water damage wasnt their fault.  They refused to pay the AP, despite a 
number of written demands from Tesco that the amount was still owed, and made a 
complaint. 
Tesco looked into their complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said that the 
policy terms and conditions stated  that if a decision is taken not to proceed with a claim then 
the incident will be recorded as a notification  of loss against their policy. And its underwriters 
will assess the risk of providing cover against that notification.  It said the AP of £40.48 had 
been correctly  calculated in line with the policy terms and conditions  and remained due. 
Tesco cancelled the policy  in January 2019 because the AP hadnt  been paid. 
Unhappy with Tescos  findings,  Mr and Mrs T complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
investigated their complaint but didnt think that Tesco had treated them  unfairly. Mr and   
Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicators findings  so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, I dont think their complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
I cant tell Tesco what price it should  charge Mr and Mrs T for their home insurance. Thats 
for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of them  needing to make  a claim 
and its wider commercial requirements. What  this service can do though, when  a consumer 
complains about  the price  he or she has been charged, is look at whether the insurer has 
treated the consumer  fairly and whether it can explain why its charged the price it has. We 
can then explain to the consumer that weve checked the price theyve been charged and 
Ref: DRN75801682whether we are satisfied  that theyve been  treated fairly and in line with the way that the 
insurer has treated all its other customers with similar circumstances. 
Here Mr and Mrs T phoned Tesco to see if they could claim for damage to their roof caused 
in a storm. But Tesco said there hadnt  been  an identifiable storm so it couldnt  accept  the 
claim. Mr and Mrs T  think  that, as no claim was made, it was unfair  for Tesco  to charge  
them an AP for merely  making an enquiry. 
This service isnt the industry regulator.  We dont tell insurers  what factors to take into 
account when  assessing a risk and what premium to charge. Different  insurers take different 
factors into account. Our view is that insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel they need  
to in order to cover  the risk presented providing  they treat all their customers  in similar 
circumstances in the same way. Tescos policy terms  state  that decisions not to proceed 
with claims are recorded on customers policies as a notification of loss and that such  
incidents can lead to changes in premium.  So I cant say that its singled out Mr and Mrs T or 
treated them  differently  to any of its other customers with similar circumstances.
Mr and Mrs T rightly  notified Tesco that there had been an incident at their property and that 
they wanted to claim. Tescos underwriters used this information to rate the risk of them 
claiming and it led to a premium increase.  As the incident was notified so close to renewal, 
and as Mr and Mrs T had already paid, Tesco couldnt issue  a revised  invite  so it wrote  to  
Mr and Mrs T to tell them that it needed  to charge them an AP. It also gave them the option  
to cancel their policy. 
When Mr and Mrs T didnt  pay the AP, Tesco cancelled the policy.  I dont think it did so 
unreasonably. It gave Mr and Mrs T the option to cancel, a number  of months  to make the 
payment and warned them that it would  do so if no payment was made. So on balance I 
dont think that Tesco has treated  Mr and Mrs T unreasonably by charging them  an 
additional premium.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580168