K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about Vanquis  Bank Limiteds refusal  to give her a refund.
background
Miss S wanted to help her partner  improve  his employment prospects. To this end, she paid 
for his course with a supplier I will call J. According  to Miss S, one of the reasons, her 
partner wanted  to do the course is because he was told in a phone call with J that the 
qualification hed get was recognised within the industry in which  he wanted to work.  
However, after he completed the course  he found out this wasnt  so. Rather, Miss S says 
that J told her partner the course was actually  an in-house course for a particular client 
company and the qualification it gives him is not recognised in the wider industry. Miss S 
wants her money back. Miss S relies  on the rights  she believes she has under Section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
Vanquis looked at Miss Ss complaint. Its position is that Miss S told it that her partner was 
given false information  about the course  over the phone. But without the recording of the call 
it does not agree it has enough to back up her version of events. On that basis it has 
declined to give her a refund.
Dissatisfied Miss S came to this service.
One of our investigators  took a look at Miss Ss complaint. He concluded he couldnt  fairly 
and reasonably uphold Miss Ss complaint. He came  to this decision because  he pointed  out 
that to have a claim under  Section 75 there needs to be a particular type of relationship in 
place called a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. However, there can be no such  
relationship if the debtor  does not have a contractual relationship  with the supplier.  He said 
by its very nature the contract for the course  had to be made between  the student  (here, 
Miss Ss partner) and the supplier (meaning J). This in turn means that Miss S had no 
contractual relationship with J. 
Vanquis accepted  our investigators conclusion, Miss S did not. In short, she was seemingly 
frustrated that Vanquis was able to avoid helping her based on what she saw as a 
technicality. She also expressed  dismay  that using her credit card to pay for the course had 
not provided the protection she had thought it would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at Miss Ss complaint, I dont 
think I have any proper  basis  to tell Vanquis  it must do anything more.  I realise  this is likely 
to disappoint Miss S please let me explain why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
Ref: DRN74342972it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss S is relying on the rights she tells us she has under Section 75. I think  its important to 
set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not 
determining the outcome  of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather,  in 
deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Ss complaint, I have to take account of relevant 
law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. 
But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same  outcome as, for example, a court  might  
reach if Miss S pursued a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is 
an informal alternative to the courts.
Miss S expresses consternation about  how Section 75 actually works. I think she is not 
alone in thinking if a customer pays for something  by credit card then there  is always going 
to be a level of protection  for the customer under Section 75. However, it is not quite as 
straightforward as that. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances 
if the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by a credit  agreement,  any claim 
against the supplier  in respect of a misrepresentation  or a breach of contract, then she has a 
like claim against the credit provider. 
In other  words, the right to make  a claim is conditional of the right circumstances being in 
place. One of those  circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. Here there is no such relationship.  This is because  unless the debtor  is a party  
to the contract  (here meaning the contract with J), then there can be no debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. 
But it is clear both from the contractual documentation I have seen and from the type of 
service that was being delivered that the only contracting  party was Miss Ss partner. That 
being so, I have no fair and reasonable grounds  for saying that Vanquis must  take 
responsibility for Js actions. I can see why Miss S might see this as a technicality, but I dont 
agree. It may be a technical  point, but the law is specific about  when it expects  a supplier of 
credit to step in. I dont  find Ive got any grounds for going beyond  that the law says about 
this.
That said,  it is always open to Vanquis  as a goodwill gesture, to make a refund to Miss S. 
But I cant require it to do this. This is something  Vanquis would have to choose to do. Id 
point out that Vanquis asks Miss S to provide the telephone conversation her partner had 
with J. That is just not realistic. And it is something  I would have expected Vanquis to have 
asked J for anyway. Plus, Vanquis  can look at the wider circumstances of the complaint for 
instance does  it make sense to it that Miss Ss partner would have contracted to buy a 
course that has no value  to him?  Especially when from what  Miss S tells us about her 
circumstances and his they have to and do watch every penny.  I leave it to Vanquis if it 
wants to take this route for its hard-pressed customer, thats its choice to make.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN74342973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7434297