K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way Barclays Bank UK plc handled the closure  of his business  
and personal accounts.  He says that the banks decision  to remove  banking  facilities from 
him  and the way it did so  has affected  his business and personal life. 
background 
Mr W had a personal and a business  account  with Barclays,  as well as a savings account. 
His wife, Mrs W, had her own account  with Barclays.
Having reviewed the operation of his personal accounts, the bank gave Mr W notice on 2 
June 2108 that it would be closing  them  60 days later.  In fact, it closed them  on 9 
September, just over three months  later, and Mr W received the money from those accounts 
a few days after that. 
Later in September 2018 Mr W was added to Mrs Ws account,  so it became a joint account. 
This account was, however, closed in December 2018 because  of Mr Ws connection with it. 
Barclays didnt give prior notice of the closure. 
On 14 December 2018 the bank  placed a block on Mr Ws business account. Mr W tried to 
gain access to the funds, but it wasnt until 4 February 2019 that he was able to withdraw 
funds from it. It was closed in March 2019, again  without any prior notice to Mr W.  
Mr W complained  that the block on the business  account meant  that he couldnt trade. The 
bank wouldnt release funds from the account unless he could provide payslips. He couldnt 
do that because  he was self-employed. Without  access to funds,  he and his family couldnt  
move into a new property as hed planned.  And, when he asked for copies of bank 
statements, they were  initially sent to the wrong address.
Mr W explained that he had to borrow from family and friends when he was unable to access  
his money, including money he needed  to pay loan instalments.  He incurred charges and 
had to pay additional interest  as a result. Hes calculated his total losses  as in excess  of 
£17,000. 
Barclays accepted  that it hadnt properly advised  Mr W about the withdrawal  of funds in the 
business account and that it should  have given  him notice of closure.  It offered to pay him 
£150 in compensation, but Mr W didnt think that was enough. 
When he referred his complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered it. She 
agreed with Mr W on some points and recommended that, in addition  to the £150 the bank 
had already offered, it also pay Mr W a further  £300  because it hadnt given correct  notice  of 
closure, taking longer  than it should have  done to tell Mr W it no longer  wanted him as a 
customer and for not updating its records of his address.  She also recommended  that it 
refund fees and interest charged  between 14 December 2018  and 19 March 2019  and repay  
£52.35 paid into the business account  shortly  before it was closed. The investigator wasnt  
persuaded however that the banks actions had caused the further losses that Mr W claimed.
Barclays accepted  the investigators recommendations. It said the interest and charges 
amounted to £102.32, but that the £52.35 credited to the business account in March 2019 
had been paid to Mr W.
Ref: DRN73496562Mr W didnt accept those recommendations, however, and asked that an ombudsman review  
the case.             
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Ill deal first of all with Mr Ws personal accounts.  He appears to accept that Barclays was 
within its rights to close his current and savings accounts by giving notice that it would  do so. 
Generally, its for banks  to decide whether or not to provide  or to continue  to provide  
banking facilities to customers. And I note that Barclays gave 60 days notice, as Id expect, 
but didnt actually close the personal accounts  until later.  Im satisfied that Barclays  treated 
Mr W fairly in the closure of his personal accounts.  
However, it then added his name to Mrs Ws account, turning it into a joint account.  It had by 
then decided that it no longer wanted Mr W as a customer, so I dont believe that was 
helpful. And the result was that the bank then closed that account  without  notice. 
Mr Ws business account was blocked  from the middle of December 2018; he was unable  to 
gain access to the funds in it until early  February  2019. Whilst it was formally closed at the 
end of March  2019  (without  notice),  I believe that it was effectively closed in December  2018  
 since after that time Mr W couldnt use it. 
I agree  with the investigator that the bank ought to have given Mr W proper notice of closure  
of the business account. That means at least 60 days  in this case.  Had that happened,  I can 
see that Mr W would have  been  put to less stress and inconvenience and might  have been  
able to make  alternative arrangements.  
However, Im not persuaded that the banks failure  to provide proper notice of closure of the 
business account and its handling of the joint account caused the losses  that Mr W has 
claimed. Ive no doubt that not having  a functioning  business account for more  than two 
months wasnt helpful, but Mr W hasnt been  able to provide evidence of, for example, lost 
orders or clients. And I note too that he was able to borrow money from friends  and family, 
reducing the impact  of the banks actions.  
Mr W has also said that his family was affected  by the banks actions, primarily because of 
the impact they had on his accommodation  arrangements. They were however in temporary 
accommodation before the account was blocked.  And in any event I believe the bank was 
entitled to close  the business account.  If it taken the correct steps to do that  for example, 
by giving notice  of closure at around the same time as it gave notice to close  the personal 
accounts  I dont believe that Mr Ws situation and that of his family would have been 
significantly different. The costs that he incurred  were  not, in my view,  a direct result  of the 
banks actions. 
Mr W says he hasnt received the £150 the bank  offered him initially, so I intend to include  
that as part of my award. And the bank says it has released the £52.35  paid into the 
business account, so I wont  include that. It also says that the fees and charges on the 
business account (which the investigator recommended be refunded) amount to £102.32. 
With the further £300 which the investigator recommended, therefore, my award totals  
£552.32; but the bank  should deduct  any element  of that if its already been  paid.
Ref: DRN73496563my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK plc should pay Mr W £552.32 in order to resolve 
his complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  29 June  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7349656