K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold alongside  a 
mortgage in 2003.
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), The Mortgage Business at the time, mis-sold 
them the policy.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think this complaint 
should be upheld.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 July 2019,  which is attached and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I think  the policy was mis-sold. In addition to this I also decided that 
an award of £100  was due for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs P experienced in making  
their complaint. 
Neither party responded with any new evidence or comments  for me to consider.  So based 
on my previous findings, and in the absence of any new information,  I see no reason to 
change my mind about this complaint.
putting things right
BoS should put Mr and Mrs P in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and BoS should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  BoS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
-Add an addition  £100  for trouble and upset. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give 
Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I think  the policy  
was mis-sold. I instruct Bank  of Scotland plc to refund  Mr and Mrs P for the PPI premiums 
paid as outlined  above, and award  an additional £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ref: DRN70147472ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold alongside a mortgage in 
2003.
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), The Mortgage Business  at the time, mis-sold them  the 
policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in 2001  to purchase a property (Property  A). Then in 2003 they 
took out a new mortgage to purchase another property (Property B). At the same time, they also took 
Ref: DRN70147473out a further advance on the mortgage attached to Property  A to cover the cost of some home 
improvements and the deposit for Property B. It was around this time that the PPI was sold to Mr and 
Mrs P and was attached to the mortgage on Property A.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Having done so I currently  think this 
complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say they were advised to take out the PPI in 2003. BoS said it doesnt know if advice  
was given  but its willing  treat this as an advised sale. So, Ive also considered this case  on the same 
basis.
As an advised sale BoS had to take reasonable  steps  to ensure the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs P - 
based on their circumstances at the time I dont think it was. 
I say this because the PPI provided  cover for Mr P only - in the event  he had an accident,  was off sick 
from work or made  redundant. However,  Mr and Mrs P were renting  out Property A and moving into 
their new place, Property B. This means its likely the mortgage payments on Property A wouldve  
been covered by the rental income. Ive thought about the security  the PPI policy  provided, but I dont 
think Mr and Mrs P wouldve been relying  on Mr Ps income to make  the mortgage payments on 
Property A. I think its more likely Mr and Mrs P wouldve  used  their incomes  to cover the mortgage on 
Property B, the property  they were living in.
BoS first told us that there had been an admin  error and that the PPI had been attached  to the wrong  
mortgage. BoS said the PPI shouldve been attached to the mortgage on Property B  where  Mr and 
Mrs P were  living. And it felt there was no reason to uphold this complaint as the policy was suitable 
to protect Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage for Property B. More recently  BoS says there was no admin error 
and the PPI had been correctly attached to Property  A. BoS says that Mr and Mrs P didnt  officially 
make it aware the property  would be rented out, Mr P was eligible for PPI and, based on the 
information it was given at the time, the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P on Property A.
Ive considered what BoS has said but based  on the evidence Ive seen, I think  it was aware  of Mr 
and Mrs Ps intention to rent out Property A. Ive seen the offer of advance from 2003 for Property A in 
which Mr and Mrs P have  signed to agree that they will not enter into any letting  arrangements without 
prior consent of the Lender.  And Ive also seen another letter which outlines  BoS  conditions for letting 
out a property. This letter has a reference number  which relates to Property A. It also states that Your 
Mortgageguard policy (if applicable) will be cancelled  from the commencement of the let. So I think  
this letter shows that BoS was aware of Mr and Mrs Ps intention  to rent out Property A.
Overall, I dont think BoS shouldve advised Mr and Mrs P to take out PPI to protect their mortgage for 
Property A, where  its likely  the mortgage repayments would be covered by their tenants - and not 
dependent on income  from Mr Ps job. I dont think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P.
Putting things right
BoS should  put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and BoS should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI
-Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN70147474-If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what  they got for 
the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give Mr and Mrs P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 25 August  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7014747