K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about his let property  insurer Society of Lloyds (SOL) because, in his 
view, it didnt act diligently  to recover its claim outlay or his excess  when a water leak from 
an upstairs flat caused damage to Mr Cs property.
background
In April 2017 Mr Cs property was damaged  when  a leak occurred in the flat upstairs. Mr C 
felt it was the tenants and/or the building owners  fault, or that of the owners agents. He 
said there was no individual stopcock for the flat which would have allowed the water to be 
turned off. When he claimed from SOL he said he wanted  it to undertake  a full recovery  and 
gave it details of the owners agents.
SOL tried to contact the upstairs tenant to get their side of the leak circumstances. No 
response was received.  Letters were  returned unopened. 
In September  2017, with the claim not yet settled, SOL told Mr C that its attempt  to establish 
liability for the loss was on-going. When Mr C told SOL he wouldnt complete repairs until he 
was assured SOL could recover the loss, SOL said Mr C had to decide  whether to proceed 
with the claim or make a court claim himself. 
Into 2018 Mr C confirmed repairs were done  and SOL settled the claim with Mr C. SOLs  
attempt to establish liability and/or recover the claim outlay was ongoing  at this time, SOL 
having recently written  to the agents  and made  contact with the owners insurer  (third-party  
insurer, TPI). By late spring 2018, despite  chasing  the TPI with regards to liability  being 
admitted, the TPI hadnt provided  any comment in that regard. SOL decided to abandon 
further attempts  at recovery.
Mr C was unhappy.  He  felt he had always had to chase  SOL,  which had never  updated him 
on what it was doing. Mr C said SOL had failed to act diligently to use the information hed 
provided at the outset.  He said that because  SOL hadnt pursued this he now had an 
unrecovered claim on his history that would likely  affect  his premiums and he was out of 
pocket for his excess. Mr C complained to this service.
Our investigator noted that SOL had tried to pursue recovery with the TPI but had been 
unsuccessful. She felt SOLs  decision  to not pursue matters further wasnt  unreasonable. 
She noted Mr C had said he wanted SOLs business  practice  to change and explained we 
cant require it to do that.
Mr C remained  unhappy. He said he shouldnt have  had to constantly  chase SOL and that 
he wanted compensation. The complaint was passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand it is disappointing  for Mr C for this claim to not be recovered but it isnt unusual, 
in terms of water leak claims, for recovery attempts not to be successful. I know  Mr C feels  
SOL should  have contacted the agents  earlier but I cant fault it for trying to get information  
from the tenant first. And as the TPI ultimately  hasnt  cooperated, Im not convinced that 
SOL having  contacted it earlier in the claim process would have changed  anything. 
Ref: DRN70130012I know Mr C would have liked more input  from SOLs recovery  team.  But I understand from 
SOL they arent customer facing and that doesnt  strike  me as unusual. Recovery is an act 
the insurer, primarily, undertakes for its own benefit. It will usually,  as a matter  of good 
practice, tack-on any uninsured loss suffered by the policyholder.  But where it does  it still 
isnt acting for the policyholder. And I do note that Mr C was told on several  occasions  that 
this sort of activity does  generally take a long time. 
Whether or not Mr C had this unrecovered  claim on his record, his future insurers would 
probably want to know  about losses and/or incidents that might  have led to a claim anyway  
so the fact and value  of the loss would still be taken into consideration by future insurers. As 
it is Mr C has benefitted from the policy which hed paid his premium for and he didnt have 
to take a claim himself  through the courts to try and secure payment from the owner. 
Whilst I might be critical of SOL if it had just decided not to pursue  purely  on the grounds  of 
cost without taking  into consideration  whether or not a claim would likely succeed, I see SOL 
did think about the latter. I take into account that SOL couldnt  get details from the tenant 
about what had occurred, and that SOLs legal advisor felt the case  was somewhat finely 
balanced as it wasnt clear, for one thing, that the ability to turn off the supply individually 
would have changed anything (although I appreciate Mr C believes it would have done). 
I also note that no-one on behalf of the third-party was prepared  to admit liability. The odds 
werent summarised or put into figures,  but I think its reasonable to conclude  they were  seen 
to be no better than 50%. I couldnt reasonably expect SOL to risk the expense of pursuing a 
recovery claim further when the prospect for success  was no better  than 50/50. That 
wouldnt be acting in Mr Cs or its other  policyholders best interests.
Its unfortunate that Mr C remains disappointed  with SOL in this case. However,  Im satisfied 
that SOL acted  fairly  and reasonably. Im not going  to require it to take any further  action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7013001