K821x#15complaint
Miss S, represented by Mr W, complains  that Temple  Finance  Limited  overcharged her on 
her hire purchase agreement (HPA). She says that adverse information was unfairly added 
to her credit file as a result and she has incurred costs trying to resolve the issue.
background
Miss S entered into a HPA with Temple Finance in October 2012 to acquire a table and 
chairs. She entered into another HPA to acquire  a sofa. This agreement commenced on 1 
December 2014.  She also entered into agreements for warranty and insurance  products for 
the furniture. Miss S says that overpayments have been taken from her account.
Miss S says that she visited the store on several  occasions as she believed she had made  
all the required payments. She says she was told this would be investigated but missed 
payments were added  to her credit file and she wasn't provided  with a clear  breakdown  or 
statement of payments despite asking  for one. On 11 April 2018 she made  an additional 
payment for the amount she was told she owed even though  she didn't agree with this. She 
says she paid due to concerns about  her credit file and the stress the issue  was causing her.
In May 2018, Miss S raised her complaint with the head office and says the final response 
letter didn't  cover the issues she had raised.
Miss S wants to receive a refund of her overpayments along with the costs  she incurred 
while dealing with this issue, such as paying  for credit reports. She also wants  her credit 
report amended and charges she incurred on her bank account refunded due to the payment 
being taken for different amounts on different days. Miss S says she should be compensated 
for the trouble she has been  caused  (including being rejected for a mortgage in principle) 
and for the costs  she has incurred visiting various  stores to discuss  the issues.
Temple Finance did not initially  accept that overpayments  had been  made  and said that the 
charges had been applied  correctly and that the information provided to the credit reference  
agencies was accurate.  It says Miss S' account  fell into arrears and charges were applied  
because of this. It later said that the agreement for the table and chairs had been overpaid 
by £248.
Our investigator said that Temple Finance  should  calculate the credits made to Miss S' 
account and deduct the amounts  due under the agreements to identify any overpayments. 
He said that overpayments should  be refunded and Miss S should  be provided with the 
calculation information.  He also said that charges relating to overpayments on the accounts 
(including the sofa account) should be refunded.
Because of the trouble  an upset caused  to Miss S by this issue, our investigator 
recommended she be paid £100 compensation.
Temple Finance said that it would refund  the £248.06 overpayment  and agreed to pay £100 
compensation.
Miss S did not accept  Temple  Finance's offer as this was less than had been suggested by 
this service and had not been properly substantiated. Mr W said that Temple Finance had 
spent a long time saying  there were no overpayments  before showing the £248 
Ref: DRN73396782overpayment. He also challenged whether £100 compensation was sufficient given the time 
the complaint  had taken due to Temple Finance not engaging with the issue.
Mr W further noted that the refund  of overpayments should be subject to 8% interest, that 
the charges applied to the account  should also be removed, and that adverse information  
regarding this issue should be removed from Miss S' credit  file.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I looked at both the agreement for the table 
and chairs and the agreement  for the sofa and concluded in summary:
table and chairs
the ledger  provided by Temple Finance showed  that the total of debits and credits 
exceeded the amount due under the agreement  but I accepted the comments  made 
by Temple Finance that the ledger not only showed payments by Miss S but also 
internal credits.  However  I noted  that Miss S was entitled to get a simple  and clear 
statement of her account from Temple Finance, rather than something including  
internal credits;
the statement  provided by Temple Finance showed a higher amount of payments 
than was required under the agreement.  Based on my calculations  Miss S paid 
£2,263.20 when the agreement (including  the warranty)  required a total payment of 
£1,890.72. This suggested an overpayment of £372.48;
Temple Finance said there  had been overpayments of £248.06 and that it had 
provided all the information  it had;
given the conflicting information, I found  it fair that Miss S was refunded  the £372.48 
overpayment that was shown on the statement;
I looked at the amounts which appeared to be late payment charges and these 
appeared to be applied when the full contractual  payment wasnt  made so I didnt 
require these to be refunded;
I didnt find evidence  that Miss S was overcharged in regard to the insurance 
payments for the dining table and chairs.
Sofa
the ledger  entries for this agreement showed the total debits and credits exceeded 
the total amount due but again  I accepted the comment  about  internal entries  being  
included;
the statement  for this account showed the weekly charges of £23.99  being applied  
and paid up to December 2017, which based  on the agreement was what I expected. 
However at this point  all 156 payments had been  made  so it was reasonable that 
some additional  payments  were made;
Ref: DRN73396783the insurance policy also showed  payments being made  after the date I would have 
expected the agreement  to end however at this point all 156 payments hadnt been 
made so it was reasonable that some additional  payments  were  made;
Mr W said that he made a payment of £191.45  in September 2017. Payments 
totalling £191.45 (made up of £27.35, £143.94 and £20.16)  were  recorded for 16 
September 2017 but the statement only showed one of these payments, that is 
£143.94. I couldnt say what had happened here,  but on balance and without further 
evidence I accepted that the other payments,  that is £27.35 and £20.16  were not 
credited to the account and should  be included in the refund;
I calculated that an overpayment of £103.24 had been made across the HPA and 
insurance agreements. Adding to this the additional  payments in September 2017  
that did not appear on the statement gave a total overpayment of £150.75. Without 
further explanation as to why the charges  continued past the 156 payments, I found 
that Miss S should be refunded what appeared to be £150.75 of additional  payments;
there seemed  to be a number of late payment charges applied to the account  but 
these appeared  to tie in with times when the full contractual payments were not 
made. Therefore  I did not require these to be refunded or any amendments to be 
made to Miss S' credit file for payments due up to the end of December 2017;
as the payments ran for a longer period than set out in the agreements  I found it 
reasonable for any charges applied  in 2018 to be refunded and for any adverse 
information relating  to these agreements from January 2018 onwards to be removed 
from Miss S' credit  file.
trouble and upset
the issues had taken a long time to resolve  and Miss S was caused trouble and upset 
through the process.  She hadnt been given the information she asked  for and it took 
a long time for Temple  Finance to accept a mistake had been made. Following this 
there were inconsistencies in the information provided which resulted in further delay;
I thought compensation was required for the trouble and upset caused. Our 
investigator recommended £100 which Temple Finance agreed to. However in this 
case I thought  £250  was reasonable.
8% simple  Interest
this service often requires a financial business to pay interest (calculated at 8% 
simple) on such  things as overpayments. The difficulty here was calculating  exactly 
from what date that interest should start. To be pragmatic, I said that Temple  Finance 
should pay 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the intended  end date of 
the agreements, up to the date of settlement  of this complaint. I noted that may mean 
Miss S receives slightly less in interest  than would  be the case  if it was possible to 
calculate the exact date(s)  of overpayment(s). But I considered  the increased 
compensation figure offset this.
Ref: DRN73396784bank charges
I had not seen any evidence of bank  charges  applied to Miss S account and based 
on the information I had I didnt find I could  say these should be refunded.
Temple Finance didnt provide any further evidence in response to my provisional decision.  
Mr W asked if the 8% interest could be applied  per annum and compounded. He said this 
was due to the timescales involved.  
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is not to punish Temple Finance 
but if a mistake has been made to ensure Miss S is put back  in the position she would have 
been had the mistake  not occurred.
I set out in my provisional decision my concerns regarding overpayments and Temple 
Finance did not respond to my calculations or provide  any evidence to suggest they were not 
correct. Therefore, based on the evidence I have  seen I find it reasonable that Miss S is 
refunded the amounts I set out in my provisional decision.
Miss S was entitled  to a clear statement  of her account but this was not provided. Temple 
Finance took a long time to accept that any mistake had been made and the information it 
has provided has led to further questions and delay. This has all caused Miss S trouble and 
upset which  is why I think compensation  of £250 is reasonable.
I note Mr Ws comments  about the application  of interest.  Our normal approach is for interest 
to be applied at a rate of 8% simple  and I think this approach is reasonable in this case,  as it 
means Miss S is fairly compensated for the time she was deprived of this money.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Temple Finance  Limited  should:
1.refund  Miss S £372.48 on her HPA taken out in October 2012.
2.refund  Miss S £150.75 on her HPA and insurance policy taken out in December 
2014;
3.refund  any charges  applied after December 2017;
4.remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss S credit  file after December 2017  
in regard to the HPA or insurance policy; and
5.pay Miss S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset she has been caused.
Items 1, 2 and 3 are subject to 8% simple interest from the end date of the relevant 
agreement to the date of settlement.
If Temple Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN73396785Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7339678