K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about customer service provided by Budget Insurance  Company 
Limited (Budget).  Amongst other  concerns, Mr B says Budget  discriminated against him and 
failed to make appropriate  adjustments for his health  conditions.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019 (copied below). I explained  I had carefully 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset,  in order to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken into account relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good  industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I didnt  think Budget had acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
dealings with Mr B. So I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint or make any award.
Neither party has provided any further  evidence  to consider. Budget  has accepted my 
provisional decision. Mr B has made contact with this service via a number of telephone  
calls, but has not provided any further comments or evidence relating to his complaint. 
The deadline  for further submissions has now passed.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, along with the new comments  that 
have been submitted, I have reached  the same decision as before, and for the same 
reasons.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Budget  Insurance  Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78333522copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B has complained about customer service provided  by Budget Insurance Company Limited 
(Budget). Amongst other concerns, Mr B says Budget discriminated against him and failed to make 
appropriate adjustments for his health  conditions.
background
Mr Bs concerns predominantly relate to the period from 2011 to 2014. Both parties  agree that Mr B 
raised a complaint toward the end of this period. Budget has told us that a final response was 
provided in 2014 via telephone  (as Mr B had specifically requested not to receive  information  in 
writing), and that this response included referral rights to the Ombudsman Service. Budget says a 
goodwill payment of £1500 was also made to Mr B. 
Budget hasnt  been able to locate a call recording confirming the final response in 2014,  although  a 
subsequent call making reference to this has been  located. The £1500  payment  has been confirmed, 
although Mr B says that he never  accepted this payment  as full and final settlement of his complaint.  
Mr B also says that a number  of calls are missing from the records,  and has raised concerns  that they 
have been deliberately  withheld by the business.
Budget issued a further final response in February 2018 which,  amongst other  matters, confirmed its 
position that the £1500 goodwill payment  was a fair outcome  to the earlier complaint from 2014. 
Budget also explicitly  said it did not intend to enforce any time bar for Mr B bringing  his complaint to 
this service, should he wish to do so. Mr B brought the complaint to this service in September  2018.
It has been  difficult  to establish Mr Bs precise  complaint points  from 2014.  However,  it appears that 
Mr Bs key concern was that Budget failed to make reasonable adjustments in respect of his stated 
health conditions. Specifically, Mr B has said that Budget representatives  interrupted  him when 
speaking on the telephone. Mr B has said this was done deliberately, as a known  trigger for his health 
condition. He also said he was incorrectly  told his complaint  had been upheld,  that he wasnt given 
referral rights to this Service, and that Budget staff had engaged in deliberate  attempts to cover up his 
complaint points.
Mr B has also said Budget failed to properly respond to a Data Subject Access  Request,  as calls were  
missing from the records that he was given. Budget has said that not all calls were traceable,  but that 
it had made  all reasonable  steps to provide this information.  Mr B also said that Budget were unwilling 
to have any further  engagement  with him by telephone. Budget confirmed this was the case  and 
defended this position on the basis all internal  processes had been exhausted  and Mr Bs calls had 
becoming distressing to Budget staff.
Due to Mr Bs various health conditions  and specific communication needs,  this case  has been 
escalated directly to an Ombudsman. However,  to ensure  that both Mr B and the business benefit 
from the same two-stage  process  that we offer all our customers,  I am issuing  a provisional decision  
setting out my thoughts on this case.
my provisional  findings  
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address Mr Bs various points in turn.
Ref: DRN78333523Reasonable adjustments and customer service
I cant  make a finding on the allegations of discrimination.  Its not the role of the Ombudsman Service 
to make a decision on whether Mr B is disabled as per the Equality  Act 2010, or whether  there has 
been a breach of the Act. However, I have taken  into account all relevant laws and guidance, 
including this Act, when deciding whether  the business has acted  fairly  and reasonably in this case.
Ive not been able to confirm  the precise  details of this Mr Bs complaint about  the businesss failure  to 
offer him reasonable  adjustments. This is due to the time thats passed, the absence of written 
records, and gaps  in the call records.  However, it appears that the issue centres on Mr Bs request 
that he not be interrupted  when speaking on the telephone  with Budget representatives,  as this is a 
trigger for his mental health  conditions.
Depending on the nature of a call, and the opportunities given to both sides to speak, not interrupting 
can pose a challenge  especially for staff that may not have been trained in supporting customers  
with complex needs of this nature. So what Id expect to see here would be Budget representatives 
making genuine  efforts  to assist Mr B in respect of this adjustment, rather than complete adherence to 
this point at all times.
Mr B has suggested that Budget staff members deliberately interrupted him in order to trigger his 
mental health condition, which  if true  is clearly very different from genuine errors that may have 
been made during  attempts to provide  support,  as described above.  
Unfortunately Im not able to say exactly what happened here, and it is disappointing that Budget has 
not been  able to provide  more comprehensive notes  from the time. However,  I do know that Budget 
has already  paid Mr B £1,500, albeit as a goodwill  gesture.  
This is a large sum, and is towards the higher end of any payment we would  usually recommend for 
distress or inconvenience  caused to a customer. Without further evidence of failings  on the part of the 
business, Im not currently minded to instruct  Budget to increase its payment to Mr B in respect of this 
aspect of his complaint.
Mr B has also said that he was incorrectly  told his complaint had been upheld, and that he wasnt 
given referral rights to this Service. Budget disagrees, and says referral rights were  given by 
telephone. Again, in the absence  of records, its hard for me to know what  happened. However, 
whether or not Mr B was given the correct information at the time, he has now had the opportunity for 
this service to assess his complaint. So I dont think hes been materially disadvantaged  here.
Likewise, even  if Mr Bs concerns that Budget staff engaged  in deliberate attempts to cover up his 
complaint points were  valid, his full set of complaint  points have now been considered through this 
Services process. On this point, however, I would  add that Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
that Budget staff did engage  in any attempt to cover up, hide, or otherwise derail Mr Bs complaint.
Data subject access request
Budget has provided roughly 50 calls that took place between Mr B and various Budget 
representatives. Mr B has said that some of the call records were  missing,  and Budget acknowledges 
this. Budget has suggested that this may be due to Mr Bs method of contact on occasion, or lack of 
identifying details during the call itself, which means the recordings werent attributed to his casefile 
and now cannot be located.
Budget has told us it has passed on all records  it has been  able to identify, and has undertaken 
additional manual searches  on and around key dates. So Im satisfied it has done all it could 
reasonably be expected to do at this point.
I also acknowledge that Mr B has said he personally made recordings of some of the calls between 
him and Budget.  Mr B has been asked to provide these recordings so they can be used to inform his 
Ref: DRN78333524complaint. However, Mr B has declined to do so unless this Service funds his travel to provide these 
calls in person. As this Service  is unable  to accommodate this request, and as Mr B has declined  the 
range of alternative options he has been offered to submit the calls, I have proceeded with my 
provisional decision  without  this information.
Current contact with Budget
Mr B is unhappy  that Budget is no longer willing to speak with him on the telephone. However, I dont 
think Budget is acting unreasonably in making  this decision. 
Mr B has made a high number of calls to Budget, and this repeated contact doesnt appear to be 
beneficial to either party.  Mr B has come to the end of Budgets  internal complaint  processes, and 
there is little more that Budget can be expected to do in this case.  Furthermore, Budget also has a 
duty of care to its employees,  and has reported that Mr Bs calls have caused distress to staff 
members.
I would expect  Budget to engage with this Services  independent review of Mr Bs complaint,  which it 
has done. But I dont  think it is unreasonable  or unfair for Budget to inform Mr B that it would no 
longer be accepting calls from him. If Mr B has further points to raise  in relation to this complaint, he 
should do so in response to this provisional decision.
In summary, Im not minded to ask Budget to take any further action to put things  right.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to make any compensation award against Budget Insurance Company Limited.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7833352