complaint
Mrs F complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL didnt  directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale 
so I shall refer to it as the seller in this decision.
background
Mrs F took out a store card with FICL in 2001.  At the same  time she bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments  on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered 
purchase and price protection.
Mrs F says that she doesnt  think she would  have been covered by the policy  because  she 
had an existing medical condition when she took the policy.
The adjudicator acknowledged Mrs Fs condition, and thought it was serious enough to 
prevent her wanting  to take the policy.
FICL disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im going to uphold Mrs Fs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs F took out the store card and PPI by filling in an application form. FICL  has supplied a 
copy of this and I can see that theres  a separate section for the PPI. Mrs F has signed  to 
say that she wants the cover.
FICL had an obligation to make sure Mrs F had all the information she needed  so she could 
make her decision. I dont  think FICL  did this well enough. And I dont think  Mrs F wouldve 
bought the policy if shed  had all the information she required.
Theres a very brief explanation of the cover on the application form. Its a few lines long and 
doesnt include anything  about the exclusions  on the policy. I think this was important 
information for Mrs F to have.
K821x#15
Ref: DRN7585772The policy excluded existing medical conditions from cover.  It said it wouldnt pay out for:
Any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition or associated  
symptoms (or both), whether diagnosed  or not, which  you:
 knew  about or should reasonably have  known about at the start  date; or
 had seen or arranged  to see a doctor  about  during  the 12 months immediately 
before the start  date.
FICL asked  for more  information about  Mrs Fs condition so it could  assess whether it was a 
minor ailment   so unlikely to cause problems in the future. I dont think we need more  
information. I think, from what Ive seen  that it wouldve been important for Mrs F to 
understand the policy limitations before she took the PPI. Mrs F had a medical condition 
when she took out the policy, and FICL said in its own notes  that it had been diagnosed 
several years earlier. Mrs F said it was still ongoing when she applied  for the card and PPI. I 
dont know whether it caused significant day-to-day  problems or if Mrs F took medication to 
control it. But it couldve caused or contributed  to a number of different serious conditions. 
Any conditions which arose as a result of this existing condition wouldve been excluded
from cover.
I think Mrs F wouldve  viewed her condition, or another condition related  to it, as the most 
likely reason for her to need  to make a claim on the policy. So if FICL had made  her aware  
that it would be excluded  from cover I dont think  shed have thought the policy offered her a 
useful benefit  and I dont  think shed  have bought it.
So I think Mrs F lost out as a result of what FICL  did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs F in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs F would have owed when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs F would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN7585772C.If  when  FICL  works out what  Mrs F would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough  to clear her balance,  FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs F paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs F 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8%.
D.FICL  should tell Mrs F what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
E.If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs F that relates to this PPI
sale,  that sum can be deducted by FICL from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest.  FICL must  give
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I direct Financial Insurance  Company Limited  
to pay compensation  as described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7585772