K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that The Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited  quoted incorrect 
figures that he based his retirement  decision on. Mr M wants  Prudential to honour the figures  
quoted.
background
Mr M had a pension with Prudential and hes recently taken his benefits  from this plan. In 
2016, Prudential  contacted Mr M in the months  leading up to his retirement date inviting him 
to select his benefits.
In April 2016, Prudential  wrote to Mr M and his advisers to say that as the normal  retirement 
date had now been reached, it had changed  his selected retirement date to 75. And if Mr M 
wished to take his benefits  before then he would need to contact them. The letter  explained 
that the plan had been switched into a cash fund in line with the terms and conditions. But 
that Mr M could contact them to switch  the funds elsewhere if he wished  to do so. The fund 
value was given  as £136,102.90 but it said that this was an approximate  value. The letter 
also explained that Mr Ms plan had a valuable guarantee attached to it that would be lost if 
he didnt take an annuity with it between  the ages of 6075.
On 17 November 2016, Prudential sent quotations following enquiries from Mr Ms advisers;  
this showed a value of £131,550.15. This was a guaranteed quote  for 30 days.
Mr Ms advisers then wrote to Prudential to question the difference in quotations, especially 
as the funds had been  transferred  to cash so they ought not to have  dropped. Prudential 
wrote back  approximately  three months  later to say the values issued in April had been 
incorrect and they should be ignored.
Later in the year Mr M and his advisers  asked for more clarification over the fluctuating 
valuations of the fund. Prudential responded on 6 November  2017 to say that system 
generated values  for Mr Ms plans were  incorrect and the valuation needed to be calculated 
manually. Prudential confirmed the correct value as at 31 October  2017  as £135,869.99. 
And said the quotations requested would  follow  shortly.
Just three  days later it sent the quotation to Mr M and his advisers and it said the value was 
£140,683.08 but that this was an approximate figure and could change.
On 20 February 2018, Prudential  sent a quotation to Mr M and his advisers; this quoted a 
fund of £141,958.33. The quotation said that the figures were not guaranteed.  The fund at 
this point was invested in cash. And following  this quotation Mr M decided  to take his 
retirement benefits.
Then on 1 March 2018, Prudential sent another quotation which  showed the fund value as 
£136,036.29 and this time the letter said the figure  was guaranteed for 30 days.
Mr M and his advisers contacted Prudential to ask about the difference  in figures. Prudential 
said that the value quoted on 20 February was incorrect due to a system error. And that the 
value on 1 March  was the correct  figure.
Mr M and his advisers then raised a complaint, saying Mr M had taken his decision to retire  
based on the figures of 20 February and the fall in value is to his detriment. They  also said 
Ref: DRN74930392that the mistakes  with the values amounted to carelessness and negligence on behalf  of 
Prudential. To rectify the error, they wanted  the figures to be honoured.
Recognising the time the complaint may take to resolve, Mr M took his benefits based  on the 
lower quote in the meantime.
Prudential responded to apologise for its error  and it recognised  its customer  service hadnt  
been good enough over the last couple of years  with regards to the fund value errors. But 
that it couldnt honour the incorrect figures. It made  a payment to Mr M of £350  to reflect the 
poor service it had given.
Unhappy with this response the complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator 
looked at the complaint. He didnt  think that Prudential had to honour the figures  as he was 
satisfied it had paid Mr M his correct entitlement. But he felt that the £350 awarded  was too 
low and rather £500 more  closely reflected  the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Prudentials error.
Prudential responded to say it felt that £500  was beyond what  was reasonable and its offer 
of £350 was already generous when compared to other awards.
Mr M and his advisers said that it couldnt accept the £500 as it still felt Prudential should 
honour the figures quoted. They said the error  wasnt a one off event, the errors shouldnt  
have continued  once the fund was moved  into cash as the need  for manual complications 
shouldve finished  then. And it failed  to take any actions to resolve its errors when it was 
pointed out to them. It said Mr M had lost out because of Prudentials error to the sum of 
£1,480 in tax free cash and annual  income  of £426.60. So the £500 doesnt come  close  to 
covering his loss.
Before issuing this decision, the investigator  on my instruction wrote to both parties to 
explain that I was intending to award £350  rather than the £500  the investigator  had 
recommended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I discuss the merits of this case,  I think its useful to set out our approach  and how we 
look at complaints. When a business has made  an error we aim to put the customer back 
into the position they wouldve been  in had the error  not occurred.  But customers  are not 
entitled to benefit from a businesss  error.
We also award payments  to recognise the trouble and upset  caused  by a businesss  error 
based on the impact  this has had on a customer. But these payments are not designed to 
cover a financial loss.
Mr Ms advisers say that the £350  offered  by the Prudential and the £500  recommended by 
our investigator doesnt cover Mr M for his loss and so they cant accept this.
Whilst I understand their point of view, I dont think Mr M has suffered a financial loss, hes 
instead suffered  a loss of expectation. I say this because Mr M is only entitled  to the actual 
Ref: DRN74930393value of his plan. Whilst Prudential made mistakes, Im satisfied based on the information  
that theyve provided  to us that the value its provided Mr M with is correct.
So I wont  be awarding Mr M the difference between the incorrect quotation and his actual 
entitlement. As to do so, would  be to put Mr M in a better position  than he wouldve been if 
the error  hadnt  occurred.
Mr M and his advisers have put a lot of emphasis on the amount  of mistakes made by 
Prudential. I can understand their frustration and I agree the service provided wasnt  up to 
standard and there were at times  long delays  in replying. But as Ive said, I dont think these 
errors caused Mr M financial detriment. I can only consider this in terms of the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr M.
Besides measurable financial loss, Ive also considered  if Prudentials  error has altered Mr 
Ms position  unfavourably. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve 
done anything  differently  had the error not occurred.  Mr M was aware at the time of taking 
benefits, what he would get if his complaint wasnt upheld. Mr M chose to take an annuity 
with Prudential. His plan has a guaranteed annuity rate attached  to it and if hed chose not to 
take an annuity or to transfer elsewhere Mr M wouldve lost this. And so on the balance of 
evidence and probabilities, I dont think Mr M wouldve done anything differently  if Prudential 
hadnt made the error that it did. 
So the only aspect  of this complaint I need to deliberate on as I see it, is what represents a 
fair payment to recognise the trouble and upset suffered by Mr M. In considering  this, I have 
to take into account  the circumstances of this case alongside  our general approach to 
awards.
Having thought about the situation and what Mr M and his advisers have  told us, I recognise  
how frustrated his advisers are with Prudentials errors. But I can only consider the impact  on 
Mr M, and not his advisers acting on his behalf. Thats not to say that the mistakes in 
quotations wouldnt have  caused Mr M worry and as I said before, a loss of expectation. But 
Prudential has offered £350  for the inconvenience  suffered and his loss of expectation.
Ive considered whether there  is anything  to warrant a substantially  higher payment than 
normal here. To do so, Ive considered  whether  there was more  of a significant impact on the 
customer than usual.  Ive thought about  whether Mr M made plans for the use of this 
additional money that now couldnt be carried out. Also I need to consider how sure Mr M 
and his advisers wouldve been  that the higher quotation represented  the actual entitlement. 
My thoughts on this are; Mr M and his advisers  knew at the time of taking benefits  that 
Prudential had issues with producing  accurate values. They  had already contacted 
Prudential at this time to query a valuation  that was incorrect, which  has been taken into 
account in my thinking in terms of inconvenience, but in terms of loss expectation,  I think  Mr 
M and his adviser  ought to have had an indication that the valuation given was incorrect.  
Especially as they knew the fund was invested in cash  and so was unlikely to go up by over 
£5,000 in a year. And in one instance it had varied by £5,000 in values given just three days 
apart. The values  involved in terms of loss of expectation, arent large enough in my view to 
have altered Mr Ms financial plans.
So whilst I recognise Prudentials customer service  was poor,  that it made mistakes and 
didnt mitigate the problems it was having with its quotations, I think the £350  already paid is 
Ref: DRN74930394fair in the circumstances. The inconvenience caused, whilst frustrating, in my view doesnt 
warrant an award above what has already been  offered.
So in conclusion, Prudential  made a number  of mistakes that it shouldnt  have  done.  But I 
dont think Mr Ms position was altered by these mistakes and he hasnt  suffered  a financial 
loss. Mr M suffered  a loss of expectation but the sums involved arent substantial  when  
compared to the overall fund, so are unlikely to have made a considerable difference to his 
financial planning or his position.  
So it follows  that I think the amount paid by Prudential of £350 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and I wont be making  any further award.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  think  The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited  
has to do anything more  to put things  right. And I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7493039