K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) gave
misleading information about the benefits of a group enterprise flexible benefits policy
provided by Mr Ys employer.
background
In July 2009 Mr Y elected to join an enterprise  flexible  benefits scheme (the scheme) that
his employer offered.  He added his daughter and son to the scheme,  in January 2013 and
May 2015 respectively.
All three of them were  on the cash  plan option which meant the underwriter could  pay up to
100% of each  invoice  for a specialist  / second opinion up to a maximum of £250 per plan
year. And up to 75% of each invoice for physiotherapy and other therapies up to a maximum
of £400 per plan year.
In mid-2017, a representative from WPA attended  Mr Ys place of work. Mr Y says that
representative gave  misleading advice about the cash  benefits  available under the policy.
Relying on that information, he elected to also enrol his wife, Mrs Y, into the scheme  with
effect of July 2017  and paid an additional premium of around £14 per month.
On 16 May 2018 Mr Y called the underwriter  of the scheme. He said that his and Mrs Ys
son had been  referred to a specialist to be assessed for speech  problems  and sought  to
make a claim under their sons policy. He was told that there was a general exclusion for
speech, developmental, behavioural and educational  problems.
In a following  call the next day, Mr Y said hed been  told by WPAs representative that if a
member had any kind of referral from a doctor, they could  seek  private treatment and WPA
would contribute  £250 towards  the cost of that. So he asked  that the policy  be cancelled with
immediate effect.
On 18 May 2018, the underwriter agreed to cover four speech  therapy sessions for Mr and 
Mrs Ys son, as a gesture  of goodwill.  Mr Y was grateful for that but said he was still 
unhappy about the information hed been given by WPAs  representative. He asked the
underwriter to reinstate  the policy.
Mr Y says hed like WPA to refund the monthly premiums he paid for Mrs Ys policy  covering
the period July 2017 (when the policy started) and May 2018  (when  he discovered the
benefits under the scheme were  more restrictive than WPAs representative had told him).
WPA says it contacted the representative  who visited Mr Ys workplace in mid-2017. The
representative didnt  recall saying that everything would be covered so long as there was a
GP referral or words to that effect. Although WPA did partly upheld  Mr and Mrs Ys
complaint, it didnt accept  that Mr Y had been  given misleading information. Nor did it agree
to refund the premiums paid for Mrs Ys policy. It felt the offer to cover four speech therapy
sessions for Mr and Mrs Ys son, as a gesture of goodwill,  was sufficient.
Mr and Mrs Y dont  think thats fair. So they complained to us. They dont think theyve been
adequately compensated.  Thats because the offer to cover four speech therapy sessions for
their son was made at the point Mr Y had raised  their complaint, and before it had been
investigated.
Ref: DRN71861052Our investigator concluded that WPA didnt need to do anything more.  She didnt think it
would be fair for WPA to reimburse the premiums paid for Mrs Ys policy  for the period they
wanted. 
Mr and Mrs Y disagreed, and raised  further  points. So their complaint was passed  to me to 
consider everything  afresh.
I issued my provisional decision in early  June 2019 explaining why I wasnt  intending  to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint, but for different  reasons to our investigator. Mr Y 
responded saying he wasnt happy with my provisional decision. WPA had nothing further to 
add. 
my findings
Firstly Id like to explain that our service doesnt have the power to punish a business  even
if a complaint is upheld.  So we wont ask a business  to pay compensation as a penalty and
we dont have  any power to direct it to discipline anyone who works  for it or to remove one of
its representatives from a particular account.  Rather, when considering a particular 
complaint, if we find a business has done  something  wrong,  we look at the impact  thats  had
on the party making the complaint. And if we thing theyve have lost out, well ask the
business to put them  back in the position they wouldve been in had it not done anything
wrong.
With that in mind, Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I dont 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
I know Mr Y, in particular, feels very strongly about what WPAs representative told him in
mid-2017 and that he says he was given misleading  information. But Im satisfied that I dont 
need to make a finding about what Mr Y was told at the time - or whether Mr Y had been 
given misleading  information which he relied on to add Mrs Y to the scheme.
Thats because even  if he had been  given misleading information, Id need  to look at the
impact that had on Mrs Y and whether shes  lost out as a result.  And I dont think she has.
I understand Mrs Y made a claim on the policy prior to May 2018,  in or around September 
2017. And the amount  the underwriter paid was slightly more  than the total amount Mr and 
Mrs Y had paid for her policy up to May 2018 - when Mr Y says he discovered  that hed been 
given misleading  information about  the policy.
Although Mr Y had requested the policy be cancelled, they chose to reinstate it not long
after. By that stage,  Mr and Mrs Y were aware  (even  if they hadnt been  before) that the
policy wouldnt cover  the cost of some  referrals or types of treatment. 
So, Im satisfied all monthly premiums paid for Mrs Ys policy since  May 2018 arent a result 
of any misleading  information.  And Mr and Mrs Y havent suffered any loss as a result  of 
anything WPA mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
Western Provident Association Limited doesnt need  to do anything. 
Ref: DRN71861053Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7186105