K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Virgin  One) didnt 
honour its promise to freeze  his account,  and allowed  some  transactions  to be made which  
should have been blocked.
background
Mr and Mrs D are the joint account holders of a Virgin  One account. Mr D brings this 
complaint on behalf of them both,  with Mrs Ds consent.
Mr D says that in a phone call with Virgin One in October 2017, he told Virgin One that he 
was about to go into hospital,  and he would not make any more  transactions  on the account 
(except mortgage repayments). He told Virgin One that he wouldnt use his charge card, and 
that his direct debits  would be cancelled or moved to another  account. Mr D says that Virgin  
One told him it would  freeze the account so that no more card payments would be made, but 
that this was not done, and so his son was able to fraudulently use his card for gambling 
while Mr D was in hospital. Mr D says this complaint is not about  the fraud (which has been 
dealt with already),  but only about  Virgin One not blocking the account  as agreed in the call. 
He also says the account balance exceeded  the credit  limit, and this also should have 
prevented any card payments being made.
Virgin One did not accept that it had ever agreed  to block the account, and said the card 
payments were guaranteed and so they would not have been  stopped.  Card  payments  
would be processed  even if the credit  limit was exceeded, because each use of the card 
would be treated as a request to exceed the credit limit if necessary to process the payment. 
Virgin One said the only way to prevent card payments going  through  would have been to 
cancel Mr Ds card altogether, but he had not asked  it to and it had not told him it would.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She listened to a recording of the phone  call, 
and she agreed  that Virgin One had never said it would  restrict the account  or the card.  She 
added that it had been reasonable  of Virgin One not to cancel Mr Ds card,  because that 
would have left Mrs D without access to the account.
Mr D pointed out that Mrs D had her own card. He said he had had card payments declined 
before, so he didnt  accept that they always had to go through. He said that allowing card 
payments to be made when the account  was over its credit  limit defeated the object of 
having a credit limit. He said the bank should  have written to him to tell him when the 
account exceeded its credit limit. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  (I am not considering  the fraudulent  
nature of the card payments which were made following the phone call, since Mr D has 
emphasised that this is not what this complaint is about. I am only considering whether 
Virgin One should have stopped the payments for other reasons.)
I have listened  to the call recording.  Mr D told Virgin One he would  stop using the charge 
card, but he never asked for the card to be blocked or cancelled, and he never  asked for the 
account to be frozen,  or for any other  kind of restriction. Virgin  One did not agree to do any 
Ref: DRN75698362such thing. So I am unable to uphold the complaint that Virgin  One failed to do what  it had 
promised.
The use of the charge  card is governed by the card conditions in section C of Virgin  Ones  
terms and conditions, which I have  read.1 Condition 18.3.6 says that Virgin One will treat the 
use of a card which would cause the account to exceed  its credit  limit as an informal request 
to allow  the limit to be exceeded. Condition 18.4.1(c) says that Virgin  One may decline the 
request and not authorise the payment, so I dont accept that the card payments are always 
guaranteed. This would explain why Mr D has experienced declined payments in the past.  
However, it does not follow that Virgin One should not have allowed the payments to exceed 
the credit  limit in November and December 2017. That was a commercial decision which  
Virgin One was entitled to make.
The terms and conditions  dont say that Virgin One will write to its customers to tell them  
when the credit limit is exceeded. They only say that Virgin  One will send monthly  
statements (condition 12). It has not been  alleged that this was not complied with.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.  But Mr D may respond for both of them, 
and if we do not hear from them  then we will presume that they both reject my decision.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 See http://www.virginone.com/conveyancers/oneaccount/pdfs/VOA_Conditions-0813.pdf
Ref: DRN7569836