K820x#14Complaint
Miss B complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (Tesco Finance) sold her a credit card 
which it shouldnt have  done because she was suffering  mental health problems.
Background
Miss B applied for and was issued a credit card from Tesco  Finance in August 2016.
Miss B explained that she suffers with mental  ill health, and this made it difficult for her to 
manage her finances. Her debt built up with Tesco Finance and other lenders which  placed 
her in a position  where she struggled to manage  her debt.
Miss B complained to Tesco Finance. She said that at the time she applied  for this credit  
card, she was suffering from mental health  problems. She felt that they shouldnt have let 
her have credit.
Tesco Finance  did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. They explained that they didnt know  that 
Miss B was suffering from mental ill health  when they agreed her credit card.  They said that 
Miss B met the affordability checks that they conducted and was eligible for credit  based on 
their lending criteria.  They provided account history showing that Miss B did not fail to make  
payments on her credit card account with them.
Our investigator said that under  these circumstance Tesco Finance could not have known 
about Miss Bs health issues. It was not fair to hold them responsible for agreeing her credit 
application.
Miss B did not agree and the matter was referred  for an ombudsman  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Finance companies  need to be responsible in offering debt to customers.  Companies  can 
decide on the checks that they do to make  sure a customer can afford the debt. I would 
expect these checks to include  a consideration of income and expenditure, as well as 
checks against customers  credit  history, and other  personal factors  that may have a 
bearing.
I have considered whether Tesco Finance, based  on the information available, carried  out 
reasonable checks to make sure that this credit was affordable for Miss B. Tesco Finance 
obtained details  of Miss Bs income and expenses.  They carried  out credit checks. They 
looked at existing debt and the ratio of that debt to income. The information that 
Tesco Finance  had, indicated that the credit  limit on the card seemed affordable.
In fairness though, Miss B is asking if she should  have been  given  credit  because of her 
mental health problems.  Miss B has shared the details of her mental  ill health  with us which 
cannot have been easy. I can see how the health  problems  that she experienced had a real 
impact on her ability to cope with her finances and how increasing  debt could have impacted 
her mental health further.
Ref: DRN73256202Where businesses are aware of existing mental health problems, they should be considering 
the impact of this and discussing  it with the customer. Mental  illness can take many forms 
and businesses cannot necessarily refuse credit just based on mental  health  problems  as 
this may discriminate against  people.
I have considered whether the circumstances  here meant that Tesco Finance should have 
known Miss B was suffering mental health  problems. Miss B did not let them  know  when she 
applied for this credit card. This is understandable since Miss B explained that she was 
largely unaware of the extent of her illness herself at that time. Her mental health problems 
were only diagnosed later. Because of this, I dont think its fair to say that Tesco  Finance 
should have refused credit for something that it could  not have known.
I have also considered whether there  may have been other indicators after the application 
that should have indicated  to Tesco Finance  that Miss B was experiencing problems. The 
account history for Miss Bs credit  card though shows  that payments were  being made on 
time. There is nothing in the account  activity that causes me to believe that Tesco  Finance 
should reasonably have  picked up on any difficulties without Miss B making them  aware.
Whilst I understand that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision,  I do not think that it is 
fair in these circumstances to say that Tesco Finance  were  irresponsible in agreeing  the 
credit card application.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7325620