K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Standard Life Assurance Limited  unfairly  decided not to grant him an enhanced  
annuity after reviewing  how it had sold him a standard annuity in 2014.
background
In March 2019 Standard  Life contacted  Mr W to let him know  that following an FCA review of 
annuity sales, it was going to look at what had happened in 2014 when hed bought  his.
After examining the available information, Standard Life acknowledged failings in its sales 
process. For example,  it didnt tell Mr W about  the possibility of getting a better annuity by 
shopping around  the open  market option (OMO).
But Standard Life said because of the preferences and requirements Mr W informed it of at 
the time,  the problems with the sale didnt affect the annuity he ended  up with. It said there 
was no financial loss as a result of the things it got wrong.
Mr W doesnt think this is fair. He thinks he shouldve been  given better  information  about 
the possibility  of receiving an enhancement  because of his medical conditions. And during 
his complaint journey with us hes raised  other issues, for example about the impact of his 
mental health status at the time of the sale.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr W disagreed and so his complaint has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I know  
this will come as a disappointment to him. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusions.
Ive thought carefully about relevant extracts of the FCAs  Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
and the Association  of British Insurers Code of Conduct on Retirement Choices applicable at 
the time of the sale of Mr Ws annuity.
Standard Life has given us its case file which includes available  documentation and phone 
call recordings  related  to the sale of Mr Ws annuity. Mr W has provided testimony  and 
supporting documentation. I was grateful for the time he took to explain to me his situation 
around the time of the sale. Its clear hes been through  a struggle and is still experiencing 
difficulties in his life.
Additional important context for this case is the FCAs publication Review of annuity sales 
practices published in October  2016. This highlighted concerns about non-advised annuity  
sale practices across the industry between 2008  and 2015. As a result, companies involved 
contacted the customers  who were  potentially affected to examine if thered been any 
adverse impact on them.
Standard Life contacted  Mr W in March 2019. To aid its review it asked him to complete  a 
health and lifestyle  questionnaire, which he did. Mr W told us he was about  to contact 
Standard Life anyway because a pensioner he knew had recently suggested that he 
shouldve been  offered  an enhanced annuity  in 2014.
Ref: DRN72019232the annuity sale in 2014 
Mr W had two pension plans with Standard  Life. He was a member of a group pension plan 
and he had a smaller  executive pension plan. From  2013 he began to explore taking cash  
from his pensions. He wrote to Standard Life noting  his intention to emigrate and to seek  
treatment for his chronic condition.
Mr W followed up with Standard Life, writing two further letters in January 2014. He made  
clear his wish to redeem  his pension plans. And he wanted to explore ill-health terms. 
Whereas previously hed said he wanted the funds by July that year,  now he wanted  monies  
by February.
I think its fair to say the tone and content of Mr Ws communications  made it clear he 
wanted to move at pace  and keep things as simple as possible. He said he didnt want  to 
involve other  parties like brokers and solicitors   he wanted to deal with Standard Life 
directly.
Following completion of a health questionnaire by Mr Ws doctor, Standard  Life accepted  he 
wouldnt be able to work again  given  his condition. So, it agreed  ill health retirement terms 
would be available. This enabled him to take retirement benefits before the age of 55.
Standard Lifes  business expert contacted  Mr W on 6 February 2014 to discuss  some of his 
pension plan options. There were two substantive calls on the day, which  together  constitute 
the main part of the sales process.
Ive listened carefully  to both calls, which together last about  1 hour. There was a lot being  
covered in the calls. They  ranged  across  the status of both pension  plans; aspects of Mr Ws 
circumstances; options for taking  lump sums; the features and types of annuities available; 
drawdown options; the provision of illustrative quotes; through  to administrative matters  such 
as when and how payments would be made.
In terms of the conversation, Standard Life checked  at times to make  sure Mr W understood 
what was being  said. He seemed to be actively listening, asking and responding to 
questions. He appeared to follow the conversation and had a clear  idea of what he wanted.
That said,  given the ground being covered  by Standard Life, I think there was scope  to have 
given Mr W more space for reflection throughout the process. It couldve probed some  of his 
responses a little further. And it couldve led and structured the conversation better to ensure 
all critical matters were  covered.
The following  elements  of the sale calls had an important bearing on my findings  about this 
case:
-Standard Life made  clear at the outset  it wasnt giving  financial advice. It asked Mr W 
how comfortable he was taking  the responsibility  for ensuring  any product  set-up  
would be suitable for his needs.  He said he was very confident about that.
-Mr W made clear  his priority was getting  access to lump  sum payments. He initially 
thought any residual funds wouldnt be substantial or enough to live on  so it would  
be difficult to make a mistake about  his decisions on that.
Ref: DRN72019233-Mr W was content with the outcome regarding maximising his access  to the tax-free 
lump sums available.
-Standard Life asked about  the situation  with Mr Ws health because  he might be able 
to get an increased  income. He was aware of the possibility but didnt think  hed 
qualify. He described his condition and thought  it wouldnt affect his life expectancy. 
Although he did say his medication  was dangerous and could affect  his mortality.
-After considering the merits  of an annuity or drawdown options,  Mr W then said even 
though an annuity  was likely to be small it could  come in handy.  And when he was 
given an income  illustration, he was pleasantly surprised.
-Standard Life asked again  about  life-style and health issues. Mr W described his 
chronic condition  and again  said he didnt  think it would  qualify for an enhancement.  
Standard Life said it could check because it wanted  to get him the best income it 
could.
-After getting details of Mr Ws medications  Standard Life couldnt  confirm if this would 
qualify him for an enhanced annuity. It would need  to go through some more detailed  
health questions. The aim being to increase the income he was going to get.
-Mr W asked  what the impact  of an enhanced annuity would be on his lump  sum and 
income. Standard  Life said his tax-free  lump sum wouldnt be affected. And it 
explained why an enhancement could increase his income.
-Mr W said hed rather skip the questionnaire  and keep it simple.  Standard  Life made  
sure he understood  that would mean any annuity payments wouldnt include an 
enhancement. He said he understood and appreciated it letting  him know.  He said if 
his circumstances  were different, he would want to explore that.
-Mr W said he wanted to go with the annuity quote hed been given as an illustration.
-Standard Life checked whether Mr W had dependents, his choice  of a level or rising 
annuity; frequency of payments; payment of income  in advance or arrears;  and it 
established he wanted to put in place a 10-year  death benefit  guarantee.
-Standard Life asked Mr W if he was feeling  comfortable for it to go ahead and to give 
it authorisation to get payments set up and commenced. Mr W played  back his 
understanding of the key outcomes. His bank details were taken to enable  payments 
to be made.
-Standard Life said it would send Mr W relevant  documentation. This included  key 
facts; the illustration which would reflect hed decided not to investigate  the possibility 
of an enhanced annuity; and the 30-day cancellation terms. It confirmed the money 
would be in his account in the next 3-5 days.
-Mr W ends  the call by asking if Standard Life needed anything  else from him. Did he 
now just have to wait for the money? Standard Life said it didnt need anything  else.  
It was all done.
The main  outcomes from the sales discussions  were  that Mr W closed  the smaller of his 
pension plans and took all the funds  as a tax-free lump  sum. He also elected to take a tax-
free lump  sum of 25% of the value of his larger personal pension plan. And with the balance 
of that pot he decided  to buy a standard annuity,  worth around £138  per month.
about the sale  the enhanced  annuity
Ref: DRN72019234Based on what Ive heard I cant agree with Mr W that Standard Life withheld important 
information about the availability of an enhanced  annuity option when he was discussing 
what to do about  his pension arrangements.
Thats because Im satisfied during  the sale calls, he was made aware of what  an enhanced 
annuity was and when it might apply. He was informed it could increase his income.  And he 
was given the opportunity to explore whether hed be able to get one by providing more 
details about his health and the medications  he was on.
There was no guarantee that Mr W wouldve qualified for an enhanced annuity based on the 
conditions and medications hed declared  at the time. But I think he was given adequate 
opportunity to explore whether he might. It seems at the time he was sceptical if he would 
qualify. And he decided not to provide more detailed information  about his health.
Ive thought about what Mr W told us about his health. And Ive read the health  declaration  
he made earlier this year (about his status  in 2014). In addition  to his chronic  condition,  Mr 
W said he had high blood pressure, chest  pains  and that he was a stroke risk. He noted 
shortness of breath. He said hed been  diagnosed with hypertension. He suffered  with 
psychosis. He was a smoker. And he was significantly overweight.
The problem with this testimony is that its substantially different to what he said in 2014  
during the sales  call. For example, then he told Standard Life about his chronic health 
condition. But he also said that everything  else about his health was ok and he wasnt  going 
to qualify for any health concessions. He confirmed that he wasnt  a smoker and that he was 
a little overweight.
I appreciate memories can fade and if youre suffering different and complex conditions 
recalling everything isnt straightforward. I also recognise Mr W is currently  struggling  with 
his health. But having reviewed what he told Standard  Life in 2014,  this is consistent with the 
ill health retirement questionnaire his GP completed the same year. I think his submissions 
in 2019 also reflect more recent  developments with his health. 
Mr W has raised concerns about the way he was treated during the sale because  of his 
mental health status at the time. Hes mentioned  two important areas of law. The Mental 
Health Act and the Equality Act 2010. He says Standard Life was aware of his situation and 
shouldve put more support in place for him.
Although we provide an informal dispute  resolution  service, as an ombudsman I must still 
have regard to relevant  legislation  and regulation. 
I note the law in Northern Ireland is different to that applied in the rest of the UK. For 
example, the Mental Health (Northern Ireland) Order 1986  covers the care,  treatment and 
protection of people  who experience mental disorder. And the Disability and Discrimination 
Act 1995 applies instead of the Equalities Act 2010.  Ive borne the relevant provisions in 
mind when thinking about Mr Ws case.
Mr W has referred specifically to two documents which he says Standard Life had on file and 
which shouldve alerted them to his needs.  The first is a routine referral  request from his 
doctor to a specialist in 2010. This was in relation to his chronic  condition  and the 
management of his pain which at the time he and his GP believed  had a psychological basis.
Ref: DRN72019235The second  was a letter from a department of psychiatry to a doctor about an apparently 
drug induced  episode in 2011 when Mr W had to be detained and treated. The letter 
suggests Mr W made a recovery, was released  after a couple of weeks and remained well 
after a follow-up assessment.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said about his situation  and Ive read the 
documents he provided. Having done  so I dont think Standard Life couldve been  expected  
to deduce from the available information in 2014 that he required special support during the 
sales process. The events  recorded werent  proximate  to the period of the sale.
I can see there are more recent records from 2019 which  show Mr W has been put on a 
referral pathway for a mental health support programme. And I dont doubt hes had to cope 
with issues over the years. But when he spoke to Standard Life in 2014, he didnt disclose 
any special needs.  Indeed, he said he was very confident about being  able to deal with 
matters. There  was nothing to suggest  he didnt  have  capacity  to take decisions in 2014.
Ultimately if Mr W wanted to pursue  a case for discrimination  or any other breach of law he 
thinks has been committed by Standard  Life, he would need to resort to the courts.
about the sale  significant failings
Standard Life itself recognises the sale calls where Mr W was sold his annuity  werent  
without problems. I think there were significant  failings. Ill explain  why.
One of the regulatory objectives  of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  is the 
protection of consumers.  This objective permeates  the statutory framework within which  
Standard Life must  operate. The FCAs handbook identifies eleven principles that a business 
must adhere  to. This includes:
Customers interests  a firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly
The relevant  requirement  in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook  for the relevant period  of 
the sale (COBS 2.1.1R) said:
A firm must act honestly, fairly  and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its 
clients (the clients best interests rule)
Standard Life wrote to Mr W in April this year with the outcome of its review of the sale of his 
annuity. The key excerpts said:
We have reviewed the sale of your annuity along with relevant  communications  from the 
time you bought  your annuity.
Whilst we did not provide  you with sufficient information, we have determined that in your 
case you would have  made the same  decision and chosen the same annuity.
An observation Id make here is that the letter was far from helpful. I cant  see how it 
assisted Mr W in understanding the position. It seemed to acknowledge a problem but didnt 
go on to explain what this was, and why it hadnt had an impact on him. So, Im not surprised 
Mr W complained  about the outcome.
In May this year Standard Life issued its final response to Mr Ws complaint. It said:
Ref: DRN72019236The outcome of our review determined that we do not believe you would have considered  
an enhanced annuity, even if we had been  fully compliant in explaining enhanced annuities  
and the open market  option (OMO) to you.
This provided a little more information about what went wrong in the sale. But again, it 
couldve been a lot more helpful.
Aside from the basic communication issues here its clear Standard Life had found a big 
failing in the sale it made to Mr W. Section 6, paragraph 4 of the Association of British 
Insurers Code of Conduct on Retirement Choices (2012) said in relation to purchasing  
annuities (my emphasis):
The provider must also highlight to their customers the benefits of shopping around.
Standard Life didnt tell Mr W about the benefits of shopping around for a standard  annuity.  
This was a significant  failing in the sale calls. 
Ive thought about the information  Standard Life sent Mr W after the sale. There  was a 
wake-up pack, which  did set out key information  about his right to shop around for an 
annuity. This was sent out the day after the sale calls. And a day later it sent him a 
settlement pack about what  had been  agreed  and his 30-day cancellation rights.
The information contained in these two packs  covered what  wed have expected.  The 
problem is usually the information, particularly  the wake-up pack,  wouldve been  sent out 
several weeks before a customer was about to take a decision.  Theres usually plenty of 
time to think  things through and ask questions about  such  a big life decision.
Here the key element of the sale was done over the phone.  And given those exchanges, I 
dont think Mr W wouldve  engaged  much  with the information that was sent to him later. As 
far as he was concerned, it was a done deal by then. So, Im not putting  too much  weight  on 
the information provided after the point of sale.
The onus was on Standard Life to comply  with best practice and regulation.  It agrees  it didnt  
do this. So, I need to consider what the impact  of its failings were on Mr W.
Standard Life says it doesnt think the things it got wrong made a difference to Mr W. Thats 
because he didnt want to explore whether hed be entitled to an enhanced  annuity. So, it 
asserts he wouldnt have wanted  to shop around  either. I think Standard Life jumps a step 
too far in its rationale here.
I say this because  I think  one of the main reasons Mr W didnt want to explore whether hed 
be entitled to an enhanced annuity at the time of the sale was that he was reasonably sure in 
his own mind (rightly or wrongly) his situation wouldnt  qualify.
I dont think its safe to extrapolate from his decisions about  an enhanced annuity  to say he 
wouldnt have been interested  in understanding he could shop around for a basic annuity.
I think more important was the priority Mr W put on securing his lump sum payments  as 
quickly as possible.  And while he couldve taken these through Standard Life and looked 
elsewhere for his annuity, it wouldve taken time to do the market research. He wouldve had 
to have sorted this out before getting  access to his funds.  And I dont think he wouldve 
wanted to hold things up.
Ref: DRN72019237We also know from Mr Ws initial communications  with Standard  Life he didnt want to deal 
with other  parties.  So, it seems likely  there were other reasons that wouldve contributed to a 
reticence about  shopping  around.
I think Mr W was weighing other matters as well. For example, in searching for another 
provider, he wouldve needed  to have been accepted  for an annuity and bearing in mind he 
was taking ill health retirement  there  couldve been  extra checks  required.  This is something 
Mr W wouldve  been wary about.
Ive spoken to Mr W about his recollections from the time of the sale. Of course,  events 
happened a few years  ago and I dont expect perfect recall. But when I asked him if he knew  
at the time he couldve shopped around for an annuity, he said he was aware.  He said the 
reason he didnt was because  uppermost  in his mind wouldve been speed and simplicity.
Mr W asked me to take a step back and think about  his circumstances at the time. He was 
dealing with issues around his general and mental health, family relationships and the 
repossession of his home. He was in financial crisis. I can see his situation  wouldve been an 
important driver of the decisions he was taking about his pension plans in 2014.
Its not for me to say with the benefit of hindsight whether the decisions Mr W took about his 
pension plans in 2014 were the right ones  or not. But I can say from the information  Ive 
seen and listened to that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold  his complaint against  
Standard Life  that it didnt give him enough  information about the possibility of an 
enhanced annuity. As Ive said, I think its clear it did. 
There were significant  failings with Standard Lifes sale of the standard  annuity to Mr W. But 
given the evidence about Mr Ws priorities at the time, together with his most recent  
testimony, I think  its more likely than not even  if Standard Life had got everything right Mr W 
would still have made the same decisions he did. So, the things Standard  Life got wrong  
didnt have a financial impact on him. 
There was a lot going  on in Mr Ws life in 2014. But he didnt disclose everything during the 
sales process. Of course, I recognise why that might have  been  the case. But I cant fairly 
hold Standard Life responsible for not considering matters  it wasnt aware of.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7201923