K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr B holds with Ulster Bank Ltd. In essence, the 
complaint is that Ulster Bank recorded adverse information about  the mortgage  on his credit  
file. Mr B would like the information removed.
background
Mr B was made  bankrupt  in February  2016,  and discharged a year later.  Evidence  from the 
trustee-in-bankruptcy has confirmed that the property secured by the Ulster Bank mortgage 
(Ill call it 93W) was included in the bankruptcy estate. Ulster  Bank  has reported arrears of 
mortgage payments  on Mr Bs credit file, which he says in unfair. 
Our investigator agreed with Mr B and recommended Ulster Bank remove the missed  
payment entries,  substitute in their place markers showing the mortgage as having  been  
defaulted on the date of the bankruptcy and partially settled on the date of discharge,  and 
pay Mr B £200.
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation but Ulster continued to disagree.  
However, despite several extensions of time, it hasnt  said anything new to justify  its 
position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The right to enforce  the security in the event of discharge from bankruptcy  is preserved  by 
section 281(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986.  However,  section 281(1) says that where a 
bankrupt is discharged, the discharge releases the borrower from all the bankruptcy  debts. 
In the case at hand, this means  that, although Ulster Bank is entitled to enforce its security  
over Mr Bs property, Mr B isnt liable to pay the monthly instalments  and Ulster  Bank  
shouldnt pursue him for payment. It follows that, if Mr B isnt liable to pay the monthly 
instalments, the fact that the monthly  instalments havent been paid shouldnt have been 
reported to credit reference agencies in respect  of Mr B.
As the investigator  said, the only information Ulster  should have recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file is a default marker dated 3 February  2016 and a partial settlement marker dated 
3 February 2017.  It follows that it must now do this (in place of the existing information) to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint fairly,  as well as compensating  him for his time and trouble.  
Considering the wider  circumstances,  and keeping in mind  the level of previous awards in 
broadly similar circumstances, I agree that £200 is fair compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I direct  Ulster Bank  Ltd to:
remove all late or missed payment  entries  from Mr Bs credit  that were  placed after 
3 February 2016;
record on Mr Bs credit file that the mortgage  was defaulted  on 3 February 2016;
Ref: DRN75997842record on Mr Bs credit file that the mortgage  was partially  settled on 3 February 2017; 
and
pay Mr B £200 compensation.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7599784