K822xcomplaint
Ms A and Mr P complain that TSB Bank plc didnt accept a chargeback  claim in relation to 
two payments of £2000 made to a third party. In addition, Ms A is unhappy that she made a 
payment to her credit card in May 2018 which  wasnt  credited until July 2018.
background 
Mr P is an additional card holder on Ms As TSB credit  card account. In December 2017  Mr 
P made two payments  of £2000 to a third party but the money never reached the intended  
account.
Mr P contacted the third party and was advised  that it used a payment processing company 
who had blocked  the payment and retained  the funds. Mr P says he paid the third party  
again using other means.
Mr P contacted TSB and asked for the transactions  to be reversed.  TSB asked Mr P to send 
supporting evidence. It subsequently declined the chargeback claim on the basis that the 
information provided was in Mr Ps name  and not Ms As name. TSB has acknowledged that 
this was incorrect as Mr P is an additional cardholder on Ms As account.
TSB asked  Mr P to provide further documentation  to support the claim, in particular evidence 
that he had paid the third party by other means.
Mr P provided letters from the third party confirming that funds had not been  received from 
the payment processing company. TSB wasnt satisfied with the evidence provided by Mr P 
and said it wasnt enough to make a successful  chargeback claim.
Mr P complained. He wants  £4000  refunded  and compensation for the time its taken to 
resolve the matter.
When Mr P made his complaint to TSB, Ms A also complained that she had made a 
payment of £2,667 to her TSB credit card account in May 2018  which  wasnt credited to her 
account until July 2018. She requested a refund of interest charged to her account in the 
interim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint relating to the chargeback  claim.  He said TSB 
had followed  its processes for a chargeback and that because it didnt have enough 
evidence to make a successful claim its decision not to pursue  the claim was reasonable.
In relation to the payment to Ms As account the investigator upheld  the complaint and said 
TSB should refund interest of £329.90.
Ms A said she would accept £329.90  in settlement of her complaint about late applied 
payment. But Mr P remained unhappy about  the chargeback and still wants  to recover the 
£4000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN74958422Because Ms A has accepted £329.90  in settlement  of the late applied  payment I wont  be 
commenting on this aspect of the complaint. Instead  Ill focus my decision on the 
chargeback.
Chargeback is a transaction reversal made to dispute a card transaction and secure a 
refund. It works by the bank withdrawing  funds that were previously deposited into the 
recipients bank account and putting them back in the consumers account. The recipient of 
funds may dispute  a chargeback if it can prove that the chargeback is invalid.
The main  requirement  for getting money  back via chargeback is evidence that theres been a  
breach of contract.  A bank doesnt  have to raise a chargeback unless it thinks  there  is a 
good chance it will be able to claim the money  back.
In this case, I can see that TSB asked Mr P to provide evidence to support the chargeback. 
Mr P provided some information about the payment for renovation  works.  It subsequently 
came to light that this wasnt the real reason for the payments.
TSB decided  that it didnt  have enough evidence for a successful chargeback  claim.  Based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that TSB followed its process for chargeback.  I think the 
decision not to proceed with a chargeback claim was reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr P feels that it was unnecessary  for TSB to also look at whether  a section 
75 claim could be made.  But I think the bank acted reasonably in exploring all of the possible 
options. As it turned out, Mr P couldnt  bring a section 75 claim because the debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship wasnt established.
I understand that Mr P is unhappy  that he hasnt been able to recover  his money. But taking 
everything into account, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or made an error and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint in relation  to the chargeback  claim. If 
it hasnt already done so, TSB Bank plc should refund Ms A interest of £329.90.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495842