K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the amount  offered by Covea Insurance Plc in settlement of a 
claim under his home insurance policy after his solar  panel system  suffered a leak.
background
Mr Hs home  featured a leaded lantern skylight into which two solar panels were  integrated.  
The pipework for these panels was embedded in the roof structure.
Mr H noticed a leak of liquid from the solar  panel  system. His roofer removed the solar 
panels. This revealed that the underlying  ply had been stained  and that the lead had 
suffered corrosion. Mr Hs solar panel company  (which Ill call S) decided  that the leak was 
most likely from the panels  rather than from the embedded  pipework,  though  it couldnt be 
sure of this. The panels  were re-mounted  on brackets above the lead which  enabled them  to 
be monitored for further leaks. This necessitated additional lead work to seal areas of the 
lantern light which had previously been weatherproofed by the solar panels.
However, once this had been done,  the system  continued to leak. There was no evidence  
that this leak had come from the solar panels. S concluded that the source  of the leak must 
therefore be the embedded pipework. In view of the difficulty in accessing, identifying  and 
repairing the problem,  it was decided instead  to abandon the old pipe run and replace it by 
new pipework running  externally.
Mr H made  a claim under his policy. Covea accepted the claim. However, while  Mr H had 
claimed for £10,741  which he said was the full cost of rectifying the leak, Covea said it was 
prepared to offer only £2,793 (less the £250  policy excess).  It said that this covered 
reasonable trace and access costs but that much  of the cost incurred  by Mr H was due to 
the replacement  of undamaged property and betterment.
Mr H was unhappy at Coveas offer. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He considered 
that Coveas offer was generally fair. However,  he thought it should pay a further £228 to 
cover an invoice from S.
Covea accepted the investigators findings but Mr H did not. He considered  there had been 
no improvement to his roof other than the minor  addition of extra ventilation, the cost of 
which he had excluded  from his claim.  He said that putting the solar panel on brackets  had 
been necessary  to avoid possible further  dismantling, as the source  of the leak hadnt been  
conclusively identified. He considered that this approach had been justified by the fact it 
revealed the leak was in fact in the embedded pipework. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should  be upheld in part. I shall explain why.
Ref: DRN79452522The policy provides cover for tracing  an escape of water and for repairing damage caused 
during this process. The policy  also provides cover  for damage  caused by an escape of 
water. And it provides  cover for accidental damage. There is no other  type of policy  cover 
which is potentially applicable to Mr Hs claim so unless the work he is claiming for falls 
under one of these  headings, Covea is not obliged to offer payment.
When the leak was first discovered, Mr Hs roofer erected  scaffolding, removed the solar 
panels, redesigned the roof using brackets and new lead work,  and then replaced  the solar  
panels. This was for a total cost of £10,353.  Mr H accepted that £1,118  of this was to install  
additional ventilation  but considered that the balance of £9,235  should  be covered by Covea.
I disagree with Mr Hs view. While  Coveas  surveyor acknowledged  that the leaking liquid 
had caused some damage  to the lead,  he considered this was fairly superficial and did not 
cause the lead to need replacing. So I dont think that Mr H has reasonably shown that the 
work his roofer carried out was to repair damage caused by the escape of water.
Furthermore, while I understand his point that re-designing the roof in this way made it 
easier to identify whether the source  of the leak was from the panel and its connectors or 
from the pipework embedded in the roof structure, I dont think he has shown this was 
essential. Coveas  surveyor  spoke to Mr Hs roofer and S and they both reportedly denied 
that the roof re-design had been at their suggestion,  indicating that it had been Mr Hs 
decision. I can understand  why Mr H may have wanted to take the opportunity to re-design 
the roof because  it would  make it easier  to maintain the solar panel system  in future. 
However, I dont consider  that the re-design can be reasonably classed as necessary trace 
and access work.
Covea nonetheless acknowledged  that some of the work done by the roofer  was necessary 
from a trace  and access viewpoint. It therefore agreed to cover  the cost of scaffolding, 
removing the solar panels and then replacing  the solar panels,  amounting  to £1,515  
(including VAT). It considered that everything else the roofer did was betterment  and not 
covered by the policy. I agree with Coveas assessment.
After the roofer had carried out this work,  the system continued to leak.  S concluded from 
this that the source of the leak was in the embedded pipework. Rather  than seek to trace 
this, it instead installed  new pipework running  externally.  There  was some  dispute between 
Covea and Mr H as to whether  the failure  in the pipework should be seen as accidental 
damage or wear and tear. However, I dont think that this matters  because Covea agreed to 
cover the £1,278 (including VAT) cost of the new pipework in any case.  It agreed  to this on 
the basis that this solution  was cheaper than trying to trace  the leak in the embedded 
pipework and subsequently repairing the roof. Im satisfied that this was fair on the part of 
Covea.
Mr H complained that Covea didnt cover  the £228 cost of a visit from S related to the claim. 
Covea told our investigator it was unaware  of this cost, which  was apparently  on a separate 
invoice to the main  invoice submitted  by S. Mr H, however, says he had previously drawn 
the invoice to Coveas attention. Im satisfied  that Covea should have included this invoice in 
its settlement of Mr Hs claim. I note that Covea  has now agreed to pay this amount to Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part. If it hasnt already done so, I 
require Covea Insurance Plc to pay Mr H a further £228 in settlement of his claim.
Ref: DRN79452523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7945252