K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt provide him with a courtesy  
car when  he made a claim  on his car insurance policy.
Background
Mr G has a car insurance policy provided  by Admiral. The catalytic  converter on the car was 
stolen. Mr G arranged for the car to be taken to a main dealer.
Admiral said it would cover the repairs to Mr Gs car. But for him to be provided  with a 
courtesy car, the repairs  needed to be carried out by one of its authorised  repairers. Mr G 
agreed to this and the car was taken to an authorised  repairer.
Before Mr G was provided with a courtesy  car, he was told that the parts  to repair the car 
couldnt be sourced  by the authorised repairer  for several weeks. Admiral paid Mr G the 
costs of the repair and he made arrangements for the car to be fixed elsewhere. He wasnt 
given a courtesy car.
Mr G complained to Admiral. He thought it had chosen not to provide him with a courtesy car 
and paid him directly  so it could save money. Admiral thought it could have done better. It 
said it hadnt been clear about  Mr Gs options.  It said it would provide him a courtesy  car 
while his car was being repaired by Mr Gs appointed repairer. But by then,  Mr Gs car had 
been repaired. So it paid £100 compensation to recognise the inconvenience which  had 
been caused to Mr G.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with this outcome and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint. She thought what Admiral had done to put things right 
was appropriate  in the circumstances. She didnt think  it should  do any more.
Mr G didnt accept this. He thought  Admiral hadnt  given him a courtesy car so it could 
benefit financially. He said hed been  inconvenienced by having  to sort the repairs to his car 
himself. And he also thought the £100  compensation didnt properly  recognise  that hed 
been without a car while the repairs were done. Hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy. These  say hell be provided with a 
courtesy car while the car is being  repaired by an authorised repairer. So he would not 
normally be entitled to a courtesy  car if the repair is carried out by someone else.
But I think things were  different here. Mr G wanted the car to be repaired by Admirals 
authorised repairer,  so that he could have  a courtesy car. But because  of the amount of time 
the repair would take, Admiral  paid him directly  so he could  get the repair  done  elsewhere. It 
didnt give him any other options. The terms and conditions say it can do this. It seems to me 
Admiral was making this payment so the car could be repaired sooner. It didnt give Mr G the 
option to leave his car with the authorised  repairer.  And it wasnt  Mr Gs choice to have  the 
claim settled  this way. I think,  in the circumstances, it should  have  provided  him a courtesy 
car for the period his car was being  repaired at his repairer. Admiral recognised this. It 
Ref: DRN78976132offered Mr G a courtesy car while his was being  repaired. By then the repairs had been done 
so he didnt need this. 
I know Mr G thinks  the £100 compensation Admirals paid isnt enough. He says Admiral 
would have paid significantly  more if he had been given a courtesy car. Hes looked at car 
rental costs  when coming to this view. But its likely that, if Admiral  had provided  a courtesy 
car, its costs would have  been much less than if Mr G rented a car himself  for the same 
period. It will have  arrangements  in place to provide its customers with hire cars. 
Mr G thinks Admiral acted  unscrupulously, or even illegally by not giving him a courtesy  car. 
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest this was the case. It acted in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. But its recognised it should have  been more flexible in the circumstances. Its not 
the role of this service  to punish businesses  for their errors. Our role is to make sure the 
business has recognised the error  and done  enough  to out things right.
I understand Mr G was inconvenienced  by having  to arrange his own repairs to the car. He 
had to arrange for it to be taken to his appointed  repairer. And wait for the repairs to be 
carried out. But he did also benefit  from having the repairs done this way. He would  have 
been without his own car for much  longer  if it had stayed  at the authorised  repairer. And the 
courtesy car he would  have been  entitled  to is smaller than his own car and would only have  
been provided once the repairs had started.
Admiral responded  to Mr Gs complaint within a week of him being  told he wasnt entitled to 
a courtesy car. That response offered Mr G a courtesy car if he needed from that point 
onwards. So I dont think he was, or would have been, without the use of a car for longer 
than a week as a result of Admirals errors. Our service generally takes the approach that a 
customer who has the loss of use of a vehicle  due to an insurers error  should be paid £10 
per day as compensation. Although  this will depend  on the circumstances in each case.
In the circumstances of this particular case,  I think the £100 compensation paid by Admiral 
adequately recognises the inconvenience  caused.  So I dont think it should have to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897613