K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that her savings account  with HSBC UK Bank Plc wasnt transferred when 
she switched accounts to another bank.
background
Ms W complains about the following issues which shes experienced with HSBC:
Failure to transfer the funds in her savings account
Failure to reply  to her messages sent via social media
Making it difficult for her to send and receive  secure messages via the app
In February 2019  HSBC  gave Ms W two months notice of its intention  to close her accounts.
Ms W made arrangements to switch her accounts to another  bank. Her current account  was 
switched in April 2019 but her savings  account wasnt switched.
Ms W contacted HSBC via social media. She was unhappy that the bank hadnt  calculated 
interest on her savings account  and transferred funds.  She was also unhappy that the bank 
hadnt replied  to messages shed sent via social media. She said shed had difficulties using 
the secure message service on the banking app because she kept running out of time trying 
to generate a secure code and logging  in.
In its final response HSBC explained  that the current  account  switching  service  only applied  
to current account  not savings  accounts. It confirmed that Ms Ws savings account had now 
been closed and funds transferred together with 12 months interest. In relation to 
communications, HSBC  said that customers could contact the bank by telephone, secure 
message or post. It said that customers could also contact the bank by email for general 
(rather than account specific) matters  but that any response would be sent by secure 
message. HSBC offered compensation of £100 to Ms W got any distress and inconvenience  
caused.
Ms W wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think HSBC  had done anything wrong 
with regards to the closure of the accounts  and the transfer of the current  account.  He said 
HSBC had replied  to Ms Ws messages via secure message and had provided evidence  to 
show that these  had been read. The investigator felt that £100 was fair compensation for the 
issues which Ms W had experienced.
Ms W didnt  agree. She said HSBC had told her it was closing her accounts  so it should 
have transferred her savings account  at the same time as her current  account.  She said 
shed had to ask her carer  to help her to access the secure messages but that she couldnt 
ask for help every time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79509022Switching accounts
In its final response HSBC explained  that the Current Account Switching Service only deals 
with the transfer  of current accounts. The bank which Ms W switched her accounts to 
provides information  about switching on its website which  makes  it clear that the service 
allows customers to switch a current account from one bank to another. It doesnt  say that 
savings accounts  can be switched as part of the service.
I understand the point which Ms W makes about HSBC telling her it was closing both her 
accounts. However, it was up to Ms W to make suitable arrangements to transfer  both 
accounts. So I cant say that HSBC was at fault for any failure to transfer her savings 
account.
Notwithstanding that the bank didnt make an error with the savings  account,  Ive looked at 
what it did when Ms W contacted them. It closed the savings account and transferred the 
balance including  interest to Ms Ws new savings account. This is what  I would have  
expected the bank  to do so I think it has acted fairly.
Social media  and secure messages
I understand Ms Ws disappointment  at not receiving a reply on social  media to the 
messages she sent. HSBC has explained that it doesnt provide detailed  responses  on 
social media because  of security risks associated with this form of communication. I dont 
think its unreasonable for the bank to have this policy.
Ms W has explained  the difficulties she encountered  with the secure messaging system. 
Shes explained that the requirement to obtain a code from the app in order to log into online 
banking made  it difficult  for her to do this on a single phone, because the code only lasted a 
short time. Im sorry to hear that Ms W experienced  difficulties.  HSBC has explained  that 
there are other methods  of communication available such  as telephone or writing  a letter.
Despite the difficulties shes mentioned, I can see that Ms W managed  to read the secure 
messages. I understand that Ms W had help to do this and that help wont always  be 
available to her. It may be that Ms W would prefer to use one of the other communication 
options offered  by the bank going  forwards.
Taking everything into account  I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I 
think the compensation already paid to Ms W is fair. So I wont  be asking the bank to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7950902