K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy because  Legal and General Assurance Society Limited have refused his 
critical illness claim under his insurance policy. Instead of assessing  his claim, L&G has 
cancelled his policy altogether on the grounds  of misrepresentation.
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr H wants his policy to be reinstated and his claim paid in full. He 
also wants L&G to have  to reword its policy application to remove ambiguous questions.
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 10 December 2019.  A copy of the decision is 
attached, and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional findings, I agreed that a misrepresentation had taken place and this would 
have affected  the terms of the insurance that L&G could offer to Mr H. On the evidence Id 
seen, it was clear that if Mr H had disclosed his correct  medical  history, L&G couldnt  have 
insured him for critical illness at all. So, it was right that a claim couldnt be paid now.
However, I disagreed  with L&Gs classification  of the type of misrepresentation. I did not 
accept that the evidence  showed Mr H to have acted recklessly or deliberately when failing 
to answer the application question correctly. My view was that he had acted carelessly.  
On that basis, I concluded  L&G could have  offered  Mr H some  life cover. I said that L&G 
ought to reinstate merely  the life cover element of Mr Hs protection policy.  This was 
because it could have  offered him standalone life insurance at the time, and so it should 
never have  voided  the policy in its entirety. The underwriting guidance suggested this would 
have been with a rating  of +100.
L&G had nothing to add to my conclusions.  It did make  some  comments  about  redress:
a +100 rating would only be applied  if terms were offered for suspected MS. In this 
case, no part of the application  would have been immediately accepted  if it had been 
advised of Mr Hs history of numbness;
it would  have required additional  information and as such no decision would have 
been in place at the point of diagnosis of MS. 
the underwriting guidelines confirm that following receipt of a definite diagnosis 
(received in less than one year) the life cover  rating for Mr H would have been +150, 
this is the correct rating that would have  been applied in addition to the original terms 
provided;
it will offer Mr H life cover reduced on a proportionate remedy basis  it is not willing 
to calculate the increased premium Mr H would need to pay for the sole life policy 
going forward to maintain  his original sum assured, nor is it obliged to.  
Our investigator has attempted to contact Mr H on various occasions,  but no reply or 
comments have been received.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78827112Since neither party disagreed with my findings,  my provisional view remains  the same.  
In terms of redress, I accept L&Gs submission that the correct interpretation of the 
underwriting is that a rating of +150 would apply  to Mr Hs life cover after he had sadly  been 
diagnosed with MS. 
putting things  right
L&G must calculate the cost of sole life cover  for Mr H under  his protection policy using a 
rating of +150.  It must then apply  this to the sum assured and notify Mr H of the reduced  
sum assured on that basis, as this is the requirement of a proportionate  remedy  in the ABI 
guidance. This is because if Mr H had told L&G the correct information from the outset, the 
life assurance aspect of his policy  would have been more expensive.  
Since the incorrect categorisation for misrepresentation was a decision taken by L&G, I do 
not believe Mr H should pay any missed policy premiums from the date the cover  was 
cancelled. Nor should  he be required to pay back any of his refunded  premiums.
Whilst I find no claim to be payable for critical illness under the policy  above,  Mr H should be 
made aware  of the amended sum assured before he is required to resume  his cover, within  
one month  of accepting  any final decision.  
my final decision
I am unable  to uphold  the complaint regarding Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limiteds decision to refuse Mr Hs claim for MS and cancel his critical illness  cover. It fairly 
voided the cover in accordance with relevant  law and guidance on misrepresentation. 
However, L&G shouldnt  have cancelled Mr Hs policy altogether. It was in a position to offer 
him standalone life assurance. On that basis, it ought to offer Mr H proportionate cover as 
set out above  if Mr H wishes to reinstate his policy for a reduced  sum assured. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78827113copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Legal  and General  Assurance Society Limited have  refused his critical  
illness claim under  his insurance policy. Instead  of assessing his claim, L&G has cancelled his policy 
altogether on the grounds of misrepresentation.
To resolve his complaint, Mr H wants his policy  to be reinstated and his claim paid in full. He also 
wants L&G to have to reword its policy  application to remove  ambiguous questions.
background
Mr H applied for a life and critical illness policy  with L&G on 7 June 2017. The policy offered £200,000 
of cover for a ten-year  term. The application  was made online through a third party. Mr H made  
disclosures relating to a type of stress and some specific conditions suffered  by family members  but 
no others.
L&G accepted the application the same  day. It sent Mr H a copy of his answers  to review 
electronically to which Mr H did not provide  any response or amendment.
Sadly, shortly after the policy began, Mr H was diagnosed  with multiple  sclerosis (MS) on 13 June 
2017, following a hospital  admission on 11 June 2017.
Mr H made a claim to L&G for critical  illness benefit.  L&G asked Mr Hs doctor for further information. 
In the medical notes,  Mr Hs current symptoms were reported as beginning on 8 June 2017. However, 
it also found information in Mr Hs medical  records that referred  to previous episodes  of numbness 
and pins and needles in his leg. These had occurred both eighteen months  and four years  prior to the 
policy application.
Since Mr H had been asked a specific question about numbness  and pins and needles, L&G took the 
view that he had acted deliberately and/or recklessly when failing  to disclose this information. It said 
Mr Hs policy would not have  been on risk when he was admitted to hospital  because  it wouldve  been 
waiting for medical information from his doctor. As a result, it would never  have been in a position to 
offer him cover, because Mr H was then sadly  diagnosed with MS.
In May 2018,  L&G cancelled Mr Hs policy  and returned all of the premiums he had paid. Mr H 
complained about the decision. During  the course of the claims assessment, he had explained to L&G 
how he had not easily been  able to recall his medical  history and any numbness, as it had not been a 
serious issue. In fact, it was only when  pressed by the hospital in June 2017 that he recalled he had a 
bobsleigh accident previously which was thought to be the cause of his pins and needles/numbness.
Further, Mr H said the question was ambiguous  as it was the only question  on the application that 
wasnt separated by bullet points. And since the earliest  part of the question  asked about  heart/stroke,  
he had disregarded  it.
In December 2018, L&G explained it was unable  to change its decision. It said it had acted  in 
accordance with industry guidance and fairly cancelled his policy  on the grounds of deliberate 
misrepresentation.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  in June 2019. He reiterated that, in answering the questions 
put to him, he answered  to the best of his knowledge and recollection at the time. He also said that 
the particular question was unclear, ambiguous and worded in a different way to others on the 
application. Because the question  contained many  different types of illness, he overlooked the latter  
part of the wording  and focused on the first part regarding chest pain.
Ref: DRN78827114An investigator reviewed  the complaint but did not think it could be upheld. He didnt believe  the policy  
application questions  to be unclear. He said Mr H ought to have answered one question  on his policy 
application differently. If he had done so, he would have disclosed how in the previous five years he 
had experienced numbness and pins and needles  in his leg.
The investigator said that if L&G had known  about Mr Hs medical history it wouldnt  have been able 
to offer him insurance  at all. He therefore felt it was fair to cancel the policy  now. Mr H disagreed and 
asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I have reached a different outcome to our 
investigator.  
I know this will be disappointing to Mr H but I do not believe L&G would  have been in a position  to 
offer him critical illness insurance  in 2017. That means I wont be asking  it to pay a claim now. 
However, I do not agree that L&G could not have offered him any cover at all. Nor do I agree  that Mr 
Hs actions were  deliberate such that it should have voided the policy altogether.  
the misrepresentation
If an applicant doesnt tell an insurer relevant information in response to a clear  question its known as 
a misrepresentation.  If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer  to believe a 
misrepresentation may have occurred  within  an application, its entitled to consider what  (it believes) 
ought to have  happened at that time the application was completed.  An insurer  will do this by seeking 
medical evidence for a specified period preceding the application. That means it may conclude  the 
applicant has failed to provide all relevant information  it needed to decide  whether  to offer insurance, 
and if so, on what  terms.
Depending on the circumstances,  it might  be that an insurer finds no misrepresentation  happened at 
all. Otherwise, there are two types of qualifying  misrepresentation under  relevant  law  these  are 
careless and deliberate or reckless. An insurer can take certain  action depending  on the type of 
misrepresentation.
L&G says Mr H failed to tell it the correct answer to the following question, and his failure to do so was 
deliberate.  
Health - Last 5 years continued
When answering the following questions, if youre  unsure whether to tell us about  a medical  
please tell us anyway.
Apart from anything youve already told us about  in this application,  during the last 5 years 
have you seen  a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
any condition affecting your thyroid?
any condition affecting your ears or hearing, for example Menieres disease,  deafness?
any condition affecting your eyes or vision, not wholly corrected by spectacles,  lenses or 
laser treatment, for example  cataract, blindness?
a growth, lump, polyp or tumour of any kind?
a mole or freckle?
chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat?
Ref: DRN78827115paralysis, numbness, persistent tingling or pins and needles, tremor or facial  pain 
other than dental pain?
memory loss, dizziness  or balance problems?
L&G had a reasonable expectation that Mr H would check the answers  he gave. The application 
expressly set out the duty to answer  questions accurately. And Mr H was sent a further checking  your 
details form to ensure  he had given  correct  information,  which said:, 
If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may 
mean that a claim  will be declined and the policy  or policies cancelled. In the event  of a claim  
we may request a report  from your doctor to support your application answers.  Please tell us 
straight away if you need to change any of your answers before your policy starts.  Please  
read the personal details document carefully."
I do accept the point Mr H makes about the layout of the question. The matter  he failed to answer (in 
bold above)  is part of a collective, final question. And all of the other bullet  points within  the last five 
years question are broken  down into broad medical groups.  
However, I do not believe  that the layout of the question is sufficiently misleading or confusing such  
that Mr H could argue  he had nothing to disclose in response. He should have told it about any of the 
medical conditions or symptoms in the list that he had experienced  within the last five years. 
Mr H has also said that it took him some  time to recall his issues with numbness and pins and 
needles because they were  minor and nothing further was done.  But Mr H could not and did not know 
how L&G would assess the information. What he was told is that he ought  to tell it of any listed 
condition or symptom he had experienced in the last five years.   
Im also mindful  that within  a matter  of days, Mr H was able to recall the issues he had in 2014 and 
2016 when asked during  his hospital stay. I appreciate he says he was questioned by a neurologist in 
detail about these, because  by this time an MRI scan had sadly uncovered  lesions within  his spinal 
cord. I agree that is more specified than a general health application. However, it does still 
demonstrate that these  were  episodes  that Mr H was able to recall, in response to relevant questions. 
In my view,  Mr H should have told L&G about the issues hed had in 2014 with numbness that he said 
occurred after a bobsleigh  incident. He didnt see a neurologist at that time,  but that was due to the 
overseas nature of his armed forces employment. Further, Mr H ought  to have told L&G about  the 
recurrence of the same  sensory  symptoms in his leg when they recurred in 2016. At this time, he was 
sent for an MRI scan. Whilst I understand no diagnosis took place and there was certainly  no 
suggestion Mr H had MS, this second episode  was also relevant to L&G as it was asked to Mr H in a 
clearly worded (if somewhat  poorly laid out) question.  
It follows that I believe Mr H should have  said yes to the final part of the question. I therefore believe 
there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, the law says that it should be 
classed as deliberate/reckless or careless. In addition, there is relevant guidance from the ABI setting 
out best practice for insurers. Though it isnt legally  binding, Im mindful of the guidance and L&G has 
relied on it when justifying its categorisation. 
It says that Mr Hs actions are deliberate because, as said in the claim refusal letter, it think[s]  the 
facts show  that [Mr H] must have known  the answer  [he] gave was wrong.
I do not believe that Mr Hs actions are deliberate or reckless. 
The Code notes at section 8.5 how, insurers will only keep the premiums in cases  where  there is 
clear evidence  of deliberate  or reckless misrepresentation.  I note that despite its assertions of clear  
evidence, L&G has given Mr H his policy  premiums back. 
Ref: DRN78827116The relevant law on disclosure and representations says that a qualifying misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless if the applicant knew  that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether  it 
was untrue or misleading. The applicant  must also have  known that the matter to which the 
misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or did not care whether it was relevant to the 
insurer. Otherwise, any other qualifying  misrepresentation will be careless.
Further, in the categorisation section of the Code of Practice, it says careless misrepresentation 
applies  where  the misrepresentation resulted from insufficient care  the failure to exercise 
reasonable care. This includes anything from an understandable oversight or an inadvertent mistake 
to serious negligence. 
I believe that careless  misrepresentation best describes  Mr Hs actions.  The Code also goes on to 
explain how the overall principle is that the severe remedy of avoiding a policy  from outset should be 
confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation . 
Ive seen no clear evidence to conclude Mr H acted deliberately or recklessly.  The Code also says 
that deliberate or reckless categorisation does not apply where the customer has a credible 
explanation supported  by the facts for the misrepresentation having occurred and/or there are other 
credible mitigating circumstances.  Mr H has set out two grounds of mitigation  he didnt properly  
acknowledge what the question  asked  of him, because of the way it was laid out. Further, since the 
first incident  was four years prior and the second led to no material findings, he simply wasnt able to 
recall them until he did so when asked to think back solely about  any neurological symptoms  hed had 
in the past.  
Mr H is a young person,  with a physically demanding  job. He also plays sport where injuries are 
common. I have seen  no reason to disbelieve him when he says he believed his issues with his leg 
were sporting or work injuries.  That doesnt alter than L&G needed  to know about  them, but I do 
believe it goes some  way to explaining why Mr H hasnt acted deliberately or overtly dishonestly. He 
made other disclosures, including stress and his family history.  
Its clear from the wording  of the Code  and the relevant legislation that deliberate misrepresentation  is 
a high bar. I dont believe that L&G has shown Mr Hs actions are such that he knew he had told it 
incorrect information. The fact he went on so quickly to report to hospital  is not related to what  he 
could recall on 7 June 2017  the medical  records make clear he had an onset of symptoms the 
following day. I consider Mr Hs actions to be negligent   if he had taken  more care and time to 
ensure his answers were  correct, he would have acted differently. 
the underwriting 
L&G has supplied its underwriting flowchart to us in relation to numbness, and this shows that 
supplementary questions would  have  been asked of Mr H including if hed undergone  a referral  or 
MRI. Irrespective of the answers to these additional questions, L&G would  have been prompted to 
obtain a medical report. Because he went on to hospital  and a diagnosis within  a matter of days, L&G 
clearly could not have sought and obtained medical evidence such  that it could  offer any critical 
illness cover  before Mr Hs MS diagnosis.  
The further underwriting  guidance for MS when offering critical illness cover shows the application  
would be postponed and the ultimate outcome  would be a decline of critical  illness cover. It was 
therefore correct for L&G to refund Mr Hs policy premiums for the critical illness aspect of the policy 
because it could never  have offered him insurance.  
However, the retrospective  evidence from the underwriter sets out that life cover could have been 
offered to Mr H  it would have been offered with a rating of +100  for signs or symptoms of definite 
MS within the last two years.  That would mean L&G would have offered him less cover for the same 
monthly premium  of £53.26. Though the correct redress is to work out a proportionate remedy, if 
L&G was prepared to offer it, Mr H could also pay more  for the same life cover of £200,000 for the 
remaining policy term to 2027. 
Ref: DRN78827117I therefore  believe that L&G ought to reinstate merely the life cover element of Mr Hs protection 
policy. It could have  offered  him standalone life insurance  at the time, and so it should never have  
voided the policy in its entirety. 
Since the incorrect categorisation for misrepresentation was a decision taken by L&G,  I do not believe 
Mr H should pay any missed  policy  premiums from the date the cover  was cancelled. Nor should he 
be required to pay back any of his refunded premiums. However, if he wants  to carry on with life 
cover, he would be expected to pay a new premium going forward,  if I issue a final decision  along  the 
same lines as my provisional  findings. 
putting things right
Unless any further  evidence changes my mind, I am likely  to issue a decision  including redress along  
the following lines. 
L&G must calculate  the cost of sole life cover for Mr H under his protection policy. It must  then apply  
this to the sum assured  and notify Mr H of the reduced sum assured  on that basis, as this is the 
requirement of a proportionate  remedy in the ABI guidance. 
This is because if Mr H had told L&G the correct  information from the outset, the life assurance aspect 
of his policy  would have been more expensive. 
Whilst I find no claim to be payable for critical  illness under the policy above,  Mr H should  be made 
aware of the amended sum assured before he is required to resume his cover, within one month of 
accepting any final decision. 
Alternatively, if it is willing  to do so, L&G may wish to calculate the increased  premium Mr H would 
need to pay for the sole life policy going forward to maintain his original sum assured. I would not 
make a direction for that, since this is a different approach to calculating  a proportionate sum assured. 
If L&G is willing  to offer this, it should  confirm this to Mr H so he can decide  upon the level of premium 
(and sum assured) for the reinstated policy.
my provisional  decision
I propose to reject the complaint regarding L&Gs decision to refuse Mr Hs claim  for MS and cancel 
his critical illness cover. It fairly voided  the cover in accordance with relevant law and guidance on 
misrepresentation. 
But, I propose  to uphold the decision against Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited  in respect 
of life cover for the reasons  set out above. 
I now invite  the parties to provide our investigator with any further submissions they may wish to make 
by 2 January 2020. Following this, I will issue my final decision. 
Jo Storey  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7882711