K820x#14complaint
Miss A makes  a number of complaints about  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Birmingham 
Midshires when she called it for information  about  her account.
background
Miss A says she called Birmingham Midshires to ask about the interest rate she was 
receiving on her account. She says she believed the interest  rate was less than what  
Birmingham Midshires offered on another account.  But she says she was told that she had 
failed security and that she couldnt  be given the interest  rate information either over the 
telephone or by post. Miss A says it took some time for a complaint to be raised  and was 
later allowed  to open a new account. She says there  is a lack of consistency in Birmingham 
Midshires approach  and believes there  are systemic  failings.
Birmingham Midshires didnt uphold Miss As complaint and says she called it but failed its 
security questions and so couldnt  provide the information she wanted. It says Miss A later 
passed security and was given  the information she wanted. Birmingham  Midshires says its 
up to a customer to apply to change an account  with a better interest rate.
Miss A says her primary complaint is the lack of consistency in that she had successfully 
transferred money  on the same day she failed security. She says she was denied the 
opportunity to receive the interest rate information she wanted.  Miss A brought  her complaint  
to us.
Our adjudicator thought overall Birmingham Midshires had dealt fairly  with Miss As 
complaint. The adjudicator  listened  to the calls between the parties and thought Miss A had 
failed two out of three security questions. And so thought Birmingham Midshires hadnt 
made a mistake in following its security  process in those circumstances. The adjudicator  
accepted that Birmingham  Midshires could  have given general  information about its interest 
rates but that it was up to it to makes those sorts of business decisions. The adjudicator 
thought that Miss A had been able to transfer  her account within a short period of time and 
that any systemic failings  in a business  were  for a regulator  to consider.
Miss A doesnt accept  that view and says Birmingham Midshires failed to send her the 
information she required to access her account,  was locked out of her account and refused 
to reset  her security questions. She would like compensation for the distress she was 
caused and for her call costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Miss A will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in place to protect 
customers money. I appreciate that on occasions  the use of those measures can cause 
inconvenience to a customer for example  where  an account is blocked.  But Im satisfied here 
that Miss A failed to correctly answer two out of three security  questions.  So I dont think 
Birmingham Midshires made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing to provide  Miss A with 
the information she wanted. I appreciate some  of the information about the interest rate 
available may have been generic but I also think that its up to a business to decide on its 
Ref: DRN78495852security measures in these sorts of circumstances. And its not something  I can fairly 
interfere in as I think  Birmingham Midshires was exercising its commercial judgement.
I appreciate Miss A says she had earlier made an account transaction.  But I dont think that 
matters as for the reasons  Ive explained Im satisfied  she failed the security procedure.
I can see that Miss A was able to take advantage  of the better interest rate as she later 
passed security. I dont  think Birmingham Midshires made a mistake by not telling Miss A 
that it offered  an account with a better interest  rate. And I think  its up to a customer to make 
those sorts  of decisions.
Im satisfied that Birmingham Midshires approach was fair and wasnt inconsistent. I dont 
think it can be responsible  for a customer failing its security questions  and later passing 
them. I appreciate  Miss A says Birmingham Midshires failed to sent her the information to 
access her account. But Ive not seen any evidence of that and can see that Miss A was able 
to access her account that same day as she changed her account to a new account with a 
different interest  rate. It may be the case that Miss A is raising a new complaint about a new 
issue that Birmingham  Midshires  hasnt looked into yet. If that is the case then I cant  
comment any further on that. But I can see that Miss A was given the information  about the 
different interest  rates on offer and moved her account  so I dont think  overall  it mattered 
that she may not have received that information additionally by letter. 
The adjudicator has explained that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies 
and so we cant  look at systemic failings that a business may or may not have. I can see 
that Miss A has been given details of the regulator.
Overall Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires has dealt fairly with Miss As complaint.  Im 
satisfied its not made a mistake and so I cant fairly and reasonably  order it to pay 
compensation to Miss A or reimburse her call costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849585