K822xcomplaint
Miss L complains about the settlement and handling of her car insurance claim by  
UK Insurance Limited  (UKI).
background 
Miss L had car insurance with UKI and made a claim when her car was involved in an 
accident. She reported there was damage  to the bodywork, and several  warning lights were 
illuminated. UKI accepted the claim and arranged for the car to be repaired at a garage. 
When the car was returned, Miss L noticed  the warning lights  were still on, and so she 
contacted UKI. The car was sent back to the garage  for further  repairs on several occasions, 
but unfortunately the problems persisted.
Repairs were attempted at a dealership  on three occasions. It was reported that the rear 
light unit was overheating causing  the harness to overheat.  This had resulted in damage to 
the wiring and the connector and the lamp  harness was replaced to resolve the issue.  A 
further test in June  2018 found a fault in the engine for brake  switch  coherence.  Both rear 
lights were removed and checked, but all the lights worked. They  then removed the glovebox 
and under the dash to check the connections for the brake switch and found the car needed 
a new brake  switch. On the third occasion,  it was found that some wiring  had been disturbed 
and so they replaced a bulb to correct  the issue.
UKI subsequently  contacted an engineer who said the problems were a result  of general 
wear and tear, and were typical of this type of car. He said the wiring  overheating could be 
connected to the accident, but it was more likely  to be poor quality wiring  used  by the 
manufacturer. He emphasised that the age of the car and poor quality wiring was the cause 
of the faults.
Miss L finally got her car back in July 2018,  but the warning lights  continued to illuminate, 
suggesting ongoing problems with the left side light, the indicator and the handbrake. She 
contacted UKI but it said it had repaired the accident damage and that the remaining 
problems were a result  of wear and tear and werent  covered under the policy. It explained 
its engineer had said the warning lights were lit due to the wiring  overheating. 
Miss L wasnt  satisfied and so she complained to UKI that the car hadnt been  repaired 
successfully. She also complained it had been driven back from the garage without a valid 
MOT certificate  or tax, that the garage  had failed to keep  her updated and she was promised 
a call back which didnt happen. Further,  the garage  had tried to collect her car at a time 
when shed told it she was unavailable and on another occasion, the delivery driver had 
asked for a good  customer satisfaction  score. Finally, she said the courtesy car shed been 
given had been unsuitable.
UKI accepted there were  issues  with the way it had handled  the claim and offered to pay 
Miss L £300  compensation. But it maintained its position with regard to the ongoing 
problems with the car.
Miss L wasnt  satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said the warning lights  
werent illuminated before the accident. And she was unhappy  that the car was in the garage 
for two weeks for a light bulb to be changed.  She wants UKI to pay for the car to be repaired 
properly and for it to continue to supply a courtesy car until this is done.
Ref: DRN79281002my provisional findings
Miss L had explained she can drive  the car but the warning lights are illuminated  and the 
handbrake won't release  intermittently.  Shes  concerned because the cars been  specially  
adapted to suit the needs of her disabled child and she feels this is a risk to the childs  
safety.
I explained the crux of the complaint was whether or not the outstanding problems with  
Miss Ls car were linked  to the accident it was involved in in April 2018  or the subsequent  
repairs conducted as part of the settlement of the claim. If they werent, I couldnt fairly  make 
UKI pay for the problems to be put right.
Miss L had explained that she told UKI on the phone straight after the accident  that the 
warning lights had come on. And I found  it significant that there were no reports  of pre-
existing problems when  the car was first repaired. Shed said the warning lights were not 
illuminated before the accident,  and in the absence  of any evidence to the contrary, I had no 
reason to believe that wasnt  the case.
I considered the age and mileage of the car and I accepted the fact the warning  lights came 
on after the accident wasnt conclusive evidence that the issues were caused  by the 
accident  it was possible it was a coincidence  that or that there was an underlying  problem 
that was merely highlighted by the crash. But, I explained that the fact the dealership was 
unable to identify  the problem didnt  mean that the illumination  of the warning lights 
wasnt connected with the accident.
Our investigator had given both parties the opportunity to get a report on the cause of the 
ongoing problems  by an independent  engineer. But Miss L felt it was unfair for her to cover 
the cost and UKI said it was for her to produce evidence  to contradict its engineers opinion.
I accepted it was for Miss L to show she had a valid claim, but having  found the warning 
lights werent illuminated before the accident,  I was satisfied shed discharged  that burden. 
Further, I was concerned that UKIs  engineer didnt inspect the car or produce a written 
report, and while Id taken into account his comments, I wasnt  satisfied they constituted 
evidence that the problem  was a result of wear and tear, particularly as the engineer 
conceded the wiring might  be overheating because of the accident. Therefore,  based on the 
available evidence, I thought its most likely  that the ongoing problems were related to the 
accident, and therefore the claim was yet to be resolved.
Our investigator had recommended that UKI should undertake further  repairs and pay for 
Miss L to have a suitable courtesy car until her car is fixed. But I was concerned  this would 
prolong the claim if further repairs were unsuccessful. Therefore, I thought the fairest  way to 
move things on would be for AXA to write  off the car and pay Miss L a cash settlement equal 
to the market value  of the car at the date it was finally returned to her. This should include 
interest from that date.
I considered the motor  trade guides,  and the retail  value  for the car range from £3,050  to 
£2,490, so I thought £2,770 was a reasonable figure on which to base the settlement. As the 
car was adapted to suit the needs of Miss Ls disabled child, I said the settlement should 
include an additional payment to reflect any money  she paid to have the car adapted (if she 
did). 
Ref: DRN79281003Finally I didnt hold UKI responsible for the car having been  driven  without an up to date 
MOT certificate  and I noted it had said it would  have paid for any damage had an incident 
occurred. But, I agreed Miss L should be paid some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  suffered as a result of the poor customer service shed received. I 
considered the impact  AXAs  handling of the claim had on Miss L and I thought  £500 
compensation is fair in the circumstances.
developments
Miss Ls indicated she accepts the findings in my provisional decision,  but UKI doesnt. Its 
produced a detailed chronology and argued its engineer only said the first issue might have 
been related to the accident,  but not the subsequent issues.
UKIs also said it referred the case  to another internal engineer who commented that, based on 
the images available, the damage wasnt severe. He described it as looking like a glancing blow 
to the left-hand  side of the car. The engineer said the damage was cosmetic and there would  be 
no way the accident had caused an issue  with the engine management system.  Further he said 
an intermittent warning light would suggest  a pre-existing issue and that theres  no sign of 
warning lights on the photographs.
UKI argues it would be unfair to make it write off the car because the issue is intermittent, and 
based on the comments of the second  engineer, this confirms the warning light issue  isnt related 
to the initial accident. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I issued my provisional  decision, UKI has taken advice from another engineer.  As with 
the previous engineer, theres no written report for me to consider, or any description of the 
engineers qualifications and experience. However,  this second piece of evidence is based 
on a more thorough  examination of the evidence and Ive carefully considered each  of the 
new points that have been  made.
The second  engineer has said that, based  on the photographs of the car before it was 
repaired, the damage was cosmetic in nature and the accident wouldnt have caused a 
problem with the engine management system.  UKI has provided the Audatex  report which 
features photographs of the car before  it was repaired, which I have considered.
Critically, I dont  accept  the photographs support UKIs argument that the damage was 
merely cosmetic in nature. The images show that the wing on the left hand  side was 
significantly misaligned, suggesting more than just a glancing blow, and based on this, Im 
not persuaded that UKI has shown that the damage  was most likely not related to the 
accident.
The second  engineer has also commented  that an intermittent warning light would suggest a 
pre-existing issue. I accept theres no warning light on the images but Miss Ls always said 
the warning lights  were intermittent and so this is consistent with her account. Ive accepted  
the warning lights  came  on after the accident  and the fact that they were intermittent doesnt 
alter my finding on this point, particularly as the fact that the warning light issues  were 
connected to the accident  werent questioned at the outset.
Ref: DRN79281004For the reasons  outlined  above, the findings  in my final decision will be the same  as the 
findings in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct UK Insurance  Limited to:
collect the car from Miss L within 28 days from the date she accepts my final decision
(if she does). This should be at no extra cost to Miss L.
pay Miss L £2,770  in final settlement  of the claim. This is to include a payment of 8%
 simple  interest from the final date the car was returned  to Miss L to the date it makes
the payment.
include in the settlement  the money  Miss L paid to have the car adapted, upon 
receipt of evidence of how much  she paid. This is to include a payment of 8% simple
interest* from the final date the car was returned  to Miss L to the date it makes the
payment.
pay Miss L £500 compensation. This is to be paid within  28 days  of the date on which
we tell UK Insurance Limited Miss L accepts  my final decision  (if she does). If it pays
later than this then interest* will have to be added to the unpaid  amount from the date
of my final decision until settlement is made.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
UK Insurance Limited  must give Miss L a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken  off if 
she asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7928100