K821x#15complaint
Mrs U complains about how MYJAR  Limited administered  her account for an instalment 
loan. She wants it to remove a default  it applied to her record and pay her compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
background
Mrs U made  overpayments  for the monthly  instalments  of her loan. She then missed one 
repayment as the online  system said she didnt have any payments due. But MYJAR  said 
that overpayments made  early went to the end of the loan, not the next instalment. It passed 
the loan to a collections agency  and sent Mrs U a default notice  after she complained but 
before it responded to her complaint.  Mrs U said shed been told that she didnt have to 
make any payments whilst the complaint was being  investigated.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Mrs U 
had made  overpayments for three  months.  He thought the loan agreement  wording  said that 
overpayments would  go towards subsequent instalments. But a new repayment plan was 
then set up. Mrs U missed one months  instalment and he thought she should have followed 
the new plan.  But he thought Mrs U had been  misled as her online account said that no 
payment was then due. 
MYJAR then gave Mrs U four days to contact it before it passed the loan to a debt collection 
agency. Mrs U didnt  make any payments to the agency and so a default notice was issued. 
Three months later, MYJAR issued a termination  of account. The default wasnt  recorded  
until after MYJAR  had responded to Mrs Us complaint and she had set up a repayment plan 
to clear the debt. 
The adjudicator thought  it reasonable for MYJAR to expect that Mrs U wouldnt be able to 
catch up with her repayments and so apply the default. But he thought it should pay her £50 
compensation for the trouble caused her by giving her wrong information about when her 
repayments were due. 
MYJAR agreed to do this. But Mrs U said her specific concern about  the incorrect wording 
on the website  hadnt been  addressed.  She said MYJAR had told her over the phone  that 
this and her account  information were incorrect. She thought  that if her online account  had 
the correct information she wouldnt have defaulted.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand that the default has had an effect on Mrs Us ability  to gain credit as is 
affecting her business.  Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether  the business  
has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of its contract  with 
Mrs U. Mrs U thought  we should request records of the calls she made with MYJAR. But I 
dont think this is necessary as I can see that MYJARs file notes  are consistent with what  
Mrs U has told us. 
Ref: DRN70567012Mrs U complained that the default was issued  when shed been told that she didnt need to 
make any repayments. Ive looked  at the emails  shes  provided. I can see that the debt 
collections agency did email Mrs U to tell her that her repayment plan had been cancelled  
due to the complaint investigation and that she didnt need to make any repayments  to it. 
MYJAR then sent Mrs U a termination notice. It said this was a legal  requirement  as the 
original repayment  plan had ended, but to ignore it until her complaint was responded to. 
So I think it would be unreasonable to penalise Mrs U for not making repayments after this 
date until a new plan was agreed. But Mrs U had missed three months repayments before 
this exchange.   
Mrs U said she missed two instalments because her online account said that nothing was 
owed for three months due to her previous overpayments. MYJAR sent Mrs U a default 
notice after the first missed instalment, telling her to contact it. But I cant see that Mrs U 
then did this. 
The loan was then passed to a debt collections agency. Mrs U didnt  make  any repayments  
to the agency  and so MYJAR issued  her with a default notice. But this wasnt  applied  until 
after MYJAR had replied to Mrs Us complaint and after it had given her a further month to 
contact it. I think  this was fair and reasonable. Mrs U had by then missed three repayments 
and MYJAR is obliged to accurately record her payment history. 
MYJAR later explained that overpayments went towards the end of the loan, not the next 
instalment. I dont think this is clear  from the contract. The term for early repayments says 
that these may affect subsequent instalments. And it says that MYJAR will then let you know  
the details of the next instalment that you will need to pay. 
Mrs U had set up a new repayment plan after shed made the overpayments. This set out 
the expected monthly repayments.  
So I think MYJAR had met the requirements  of the contract. MYJAR said that Mrs U had a 
contractual obligation to make the monthly  instalments  agreed  on her repayment plan. Mrs U 
made the first two repayments. I think MYJAR  could reasonably consider that Mrs U had 
agreed to this new schedule, despite her previous overpayments.
When Mrs U later contacted MYJAR  it was explained to her that because of her 
overpayments and the change in her repayment  plan, what  was shown on her online 
account was incorrect. The correct repayments  were  those in her agreed repayment  plan 
which had been  provided to her. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that the incorrect  information must have caused Mrs U 
confusion. But I also think Mrs U could  have contacted MYJAR as it requested  after her first 
missed payment. This problem could then have  been resolved.  
To put things right, I think MYJAR should  reasonably compensate Mrs U for the trouble and 
upset this incorrect information caused.  The adjudicator  recommended  £50. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require 
MYJAR to increase  this. 
Ref: DRN70567013my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require MYJAR Limited to pay Mrs U 
£50 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its providing her with 
incorrect information, as its already agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7056701