K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T)  lent to him irresponsibly. He says proper 
credit checks werent made.  He says if they had been, H&T wouldve seen that he couldnt 
afford the loans.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. H&T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings, are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
H&T, and Mr P, received  my provisional decision. And no one had anything to add after 
theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H&T and Mr P didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision.  So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 4 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ps credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 9 should be removed from 
Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Harvey & Thompson Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74725212
Ref: DRN74725213extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  nine payday loans H&T provided to Mr P between December 2007  and 
May 2009. H&T has provided  updated information about this lending  since the adjudicator looked at 
the complaint. Some of the information provided is in the table below: 
the loans were  made by Mr P providing  cheques of either £100 or £50 in return  for cash  of 
less than the cheque face value
the cheques would be either cashed  around  a month later or extended for a fee.
the end dates  are when the last tranche of the lending was repaid. But in some cases  Mr P 
repaid the loans in part at an earlier time.  I havent  put this information  on the table
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. H&T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  It said 
that the adjudicator was applying  current regulations to the sale of loans in 2009.  And in any event  the 
checks H&T did were  reasonable.
So as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
H&T needed to take steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out reasonable checks to make sure Mr P could repay  the loans  in a sustainable 
manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have  done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); loan number date startedamount 
borrowedextensions date closed
1 07/12/2007 £500 0 09/01/2008
2 07/01/2008 £500 0 09/02/2008
3 06/02/2008 £500 5 05/08/2008
4 06/03/2008 £100 5 15/08/2008
5 27/03/2008 £100 2 23/06/2008
6 08/07/2008 £100 1 06/08/2008
7 08/09/2008 £500 10 10/08/2009
8 02/01/2009 £50 4 26/05/2009
9 26/05/2009 £50 1 27/07/2009
Ref: DRN74725214the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments  being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably  make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow 
this is the case. A customer  should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able 
to make their repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
H&T has said that the regulations and guidance only came into place at a later time. But I dont agree 
that this is the case. There were industry standards in 2007  such  as the FLA Lending Code  that, in 
some respects, were  based on the same principles as current regulations. And in any event a 
business shout treat its customers reasonably. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Ive provisionally decided  to uphold Mr Ps complaint  in part 
and have explained why below.
Mr P didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion  not to uphold the lending before 1 April 2008.  As 
Ive outlined below I think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld from the loans  made  on 6 February 
2008. But as Mr P accepted our adjudicators opinion  about  the loans  before this time I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about  them.  So I wont be making a decision about  the lending  
before 6 February 2008. But these  loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had with H&T.  
So they are something I will take into account when  considering  the other  loans he took.
Mr P borrowed £500 for loan 1. This was split over 5 cheques of £100 and I understand he could 
repay this in part if he needed to (for a fee). Mr P was able to repay  the loans a month later but he 
took further loans of £500  straightaway  on the same basis. Again Mr P repaid these loans on time.  
But Mr P needed to borrow  for a third time straight afterwards. Whilst  I accept there was some  
flexibility with the repayment of these loans Mr P was now borrowing and repaying over half of his 
income of just over £1,000 each month. This is a very high amount. And this continued over loans 4 
and 5. 
Added to this Mr P extended loan 3 a number of times and he took loans  4 and 5 whilst loan 3 was 
still outstanding. I think its fair to say that Mr P was starting  to have significant  problems  making the 
repayments over the time he had these loans.
So by loan 3 H&T shouldve been concerned that Mr P may have some longer term financial 
problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow problem. H&T shouldve  
also become  concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ps true financial situation.
I think  a reasonable check before approving loans 3 to 5 would most  likely have shown that Mr P was 
having problems  managing his money over this time. The information Mr P has provided shows  that 
his regular expenditure was around £250. But he also has significant  other expenditure on debt such 
as credit cards and loans and he was using other short term lenders.  He didnt have very much left 
over after repaying  his existing commitments in any event. And as Ive outlined above he was 
repaying a significant amount to H&T each month. 
Ref: DRN74725215I think  that H&T wouldve  found out this information if it had made  reasonable  checks. And I think  H&T 
wouldve seen Mr P wouldnt  have been able repay the loans in a sustainable way. So I think  that 
H&T shouldnt have given  loans 3 to 5 to Mr P and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im 
intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 3 to 5.
I havent recreated  individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans  6 to 9 because  I dont think  
that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of H&Ts lending history with Mr P, with 
a view to seeing if there was a point at which  H&T should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so H&T should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point  was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
up to loan 6 the amounts Mr P owed  H&T remained  the same or increased. This was largely 
due to Mr P being unable to fully repay his loans in a reasonable time.  And when he did 
manage to make some repayments he would  borrow  again very shortly afterwards. 
H&T ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mr P was having  to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ps 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads into the amount  he owed  H&T. Loan 9 was taken out 
around 18 months after Mr Ps first. Mr P had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect,  
service a debt to H&T over an extended period.
I think  that Mr P lost out because  H&T continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ps ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost  loans
So Im also intending uphold the complaint about loans  6 to 9 and H&T should put things right.
Ref: DRN7472521