K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the lack of progress on a subsidence claim raised  with Aviva
Insurance Limited under her home  insurance  policy.
All references to Aviva  include their agents.
Mrs M is being  represented in this complaint  by her husband, Mr M. So Ill refer to him 
directly in my decision.
Background
Mrs M has an ongoing subsidence claim with Aviva. The background to the claim and
subsequent developments are extensive.  So I will set out below the key events which are
relevant to my decision. However, I want to reassure both parties that I have read and
carefully considered  everything that has been provided.
Mr and Mrs Ms property  first experienced subsidence in 2007. Aviva accepted the claim and
its contractor recommended  the removal  of trees and vegetation  to solve the reasons for the
movement.
Mr and Mrs M werent sure this would solve the problem, so they got advice from an
independent structural  engineer. The engineer advised the work recommended  by Aviva
wouldnt be enough to resolve the movement of the property and thought it would  reoccur
unless further  investigations were done.
Aviva told Mr and Mrs M that once the trees were removed there would likely be a period
where the property  settled, and this would cause some minor movement to the property.
Over time, Mr and Mrs M noticed some cracking  to the plaster  but didnt tell Aviva  as they
thought it was due to the property settling.
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs M noticed larger structural movements in their property.  They
told Aviva  and it accepted  the claim.
Aviva provided Mr and Mrs M with a proposal  for the work  required. This included
addressing the cause  of the movement  with site investigations, tree management works, and
further monitoring to confirm the property  stability. Mr and Mrs M had some  concerns with
the plan and got advice  from an independent  structural engineer  in June 2017. The engineer
recommended further technical investigations  were needed,  but Mr and Mrs M say Aviva
didnt take this advice into account  until later in the claim.
As a result of the movement in the property Mr and Mrs M say that water now comes up
through the floor of the kitchen, and also enters through the walls. They  say this has led to
damp issues and the unevenness of the floor is a trip hazard. Mr and Mrs M say theyve
asked for temporary  repairs  to be done  to the kitchen a number of times but so far nothing
has happened.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because they say that up to this point,  Aviva  hasnt completed
the investigations necessary to determine the cause of movement to their property. They  are
also unhappy that none of the proposed temporary  or remedial work has been  carried  out.
Mr and Mrs M understand that subsidence  claims can be complex and did not expect the
issue to be resolved immediately. But they say the overall  issue has now gone on for more
Ref: DRN71607072than 10 years, with the most recent  movement evident since  January 2017.
Worried with the progress  of their claim, Mr and Mrs M set out a list of concerns to Avivas
contractor in July 2017. These included asking for a review to determine the underlying
cause of the movement and proposed solutions,  commencement of temporary repairs,  and a
plan and timeline for the remaining works. Unable to get a substantial  response, they
referred their concerns as a complaint to Aviva  in January 2018.
In March 2018, Aviva responded  to Mr and Mrs M. It said the present position of the claim is
to proceed with level monitoring to establish the correct way to progress the claim. It said
there had been  problems  with the progression of the claim and offered £500  compensation
for the delays. It also offered to replace  the contractors. Mr and Mrs M said that Avivas
response didnt  address  many of the issues they raised. Mr and Mrs M attempted to engage
with Aviva further for answers  to their questions but said they didnt get a proper response.
During this time they were  contacted by Avivas  contractor  who confirmed further
investigations would be needed. Mr and Mrs M agreed to the further investigations but said
they heard  nothing after that, so they referred  the complaint to our service in July 2018.
Mr M, on behalf  of Mrs M, asked our service to look into a number of issues.  In summary  he
wanted us to consider:
Getting a clear plan from Aviva which detailed  what monitoring and investigations
were still needed  to inform the repairs required.  In particular Mr and Mrs M were keen
for the plan to have specific dates and timeframes  for the repairs  to be completed;
The lack of temporary repairs in the kitchen, and remedial repair work to the drains;
The link between the previous claim in 2007  and the current  movements. In
particular, whether the proposed removal of trees  from the hillside above the property
would lead to further issues. And if the current claim was found to be linked to the
previous movement, he felt the £1,000 excess paid for the further  claim in January
2018 should be refunded;
Asking Aviva how it proposes to mitigate the risk of destabilising the slope above the
property if it proceeds to remove a large number of trees from the area;
Avivas overall level of communication throughout the claim.
Our investigator looked at everything  and recommended the complaint  be upheld.  He found
there were failings in the way Aviva had communicated during the claim, and there were
avoidable delays  to the investigations and repair work. He also found that there had been
insufficient investigations to determine  the cause of the present movement or whether it was
linked to the claim in 2007.
In order to put things  right, our investigator said that within four weeks of both parties
accepting his recommendations Aviva  should,  in summary:
Investigate  whether  the present movement is linked to the previous movement in
2007 as a consequence of the tree removal, and review whether the excess  of
£1,000 is still payable;
Provide a clear schedule and letter to Mr and Mrs M including  all of the monitoring
Ref: DRN71607073and results data so far, what investigations are still required, and dates for a decision
to be made  about  the repairs;
Arrange and ensure repairs are undertaken to the drains and kitchen;
Arrange for a geotechnical  survey  to be carried out. The survey should include;
reports on whether the surrounding areas  will be destabilised by the removal  of a
number of trees; the sub-surface water  flows and changing groundwater evidenced
so far; how the removal of trees has affected the properties of nearby neighbours;
and if tree removal is deemed necessary,  what measures should be put in place  to
mitigate the risk of destabilisation;
Pay Mrs M £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused so far.
Mrs M broadly accepted  our investigators  findings. Mr M responded on behalf of Mrs M and 
said he wanted a meaningful point  of contact at Aviva to be kept in the loop with the claim. 
He said he had concerns over the ambiguity of the monitoring period required and wanted a
mechanism put in place to avoid  further delays in the claim. Mr M also requested a copy of
all information held on the claim by Aviva.
Aviva accepted our investigators findings in full in April 2019 and said it had forwarded them
to its contractor to implement.
In June 2019, Mr M contacted Aviva and said its contractor hadnt been  in touch for two
months to discuss the recommendations.  Mr M said he had agreed to a site meeting with the
contractor to set out some  proposed  repairs to the kitchen and drains  but hadnt heard
anything back.  Mr M has provided  our service with a timeline  of correspondence he sent to
Aviva to try and progress  the claim and follow up the investigators recommendations.
Mr M said he was frustrated at Avivas lack of response and was concerned  he hadnt
received all of the information he asked for. He said this was in order  to inform his own
engineer ahead of a site meeting. Mr M was also frustrated that the only contact he had from
Avivas contractor was an attempt to book a site meeting to review  the claim  at a few days
notice. Mr M explained he would be happy  to accommodate future site meetings, once he
had the necessary information and notice to do so. But he said that overall there had been
no progress made on the claim.
Our investigator wrote to Aviva again  to try and get things moving. Aviva replied and said the
previous engineers on the claim were no longer working for them,  so it would be practical for
the new engineer  on the claim to do a site visit and produce a report  on the way forward. It
said it could provide a report  to Mr and Mrs M following this meeting. And that the kitchen
and drainage repairs would be covered at the same meeting.
Aviva also said it had provided all the information  to Mr M in relation to the claim. But it said
it didnt currently have  a schedule of works to provide, and it queried the necessity of the
geotechnical survey.
Frustrated by a lack of progress following our investigators recommendations, Mrs M
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  Mr M, on behalf of Mrs M would like the ombudsman to 
consider:
Making a decision  which  sets out a clearly defined path for Aviva leading  to a
Ref: DRN71607074physical solution  for the property  to be confirmed as acceptable by a third party and
with sufficient financial disincentives applying to Aviva to dissuade  them  from further
delays;
A permanent solution to the structural movements from the house, this includes (but
is not an exhaustive  list):
othe clear identification  of the causes of the structural movements of the
house;
othe determination and agreement to the appropriate solutions and remedies
which provide the best likelihood of resolving the movements permanently;
oquick and effective  repairs to the property;
oclear information to his neighbours including the impact on their own
properties and clear, reasoned responses  to the concerns  raised;
The impact of the lack of temporary  repairs to the kitchen, and that a replacement
kitchen cant be installed as water  still comes through the floor;
The impact of not being  able to sell the property and the impact on their family life
due to the delays in the claim;
Additional compensation for the delays and failures to date and for on-going delays
following any subsequent  findings;
Providing a decision as to the connection  between structural  movements
experienced in 2007  and those noted  in 2017.  If there is found to be a connection
with the tree removal  in 2007, Aviva  should  refund the £1000  excess;
Requiring Aviva to employ  a competent third party  to carry out investigations and
repairs as he has lost faith with Aviva  and its agents. Mr M also wants  Aviva  to pay
for the appointment of an independent structural engineer with the remit to monitor
and advise on the appropriateness  of investigations.  The engineer should be
provided with all of the information relevant to the claim  to date including a schedule
of works and timetable;
Requiring Aviva to agree relocation  (alternative  accommodation) if required;
Requiring Aviva to implement the findings within two weeks including  payment of
compensation, temporary works in the kitchen, geotechnical investigations, and
investigation/repair of drainage issues. And within four weeks  completing an
investigation into the source and cause of water  flows  into the area;
Requiring Aviva to make and maintain proper records of all information relevant  to
the claim,  and make  timely responses  for information such  as results of
investigations and proposed actions;
Compensation of an additional £100 per week  and pro rata for parts  thereof for the
delays from the end of April 2018  to the date of the final decision;
Ref: DRN71607075Compensation for any ongoing  delay between the final decision and completion of
repairs, either in the form of provision for alternative accommodation at £1,000 per
month, or £1,000 per month for the disturbance.
Aviva said it had been trying to arrange a site visit for some time to begin implementing the
findings, but that our adjudicator initially refused  the visit.
In September  2019 Mr M told Aviva and our investigator the floor of the kitchen had now
collapsed in an area where  water rises  through the floor. Mr M said the floor was a large  trip
hazard and had collapsed  in a concave  fashion,  which suggested a void or space had likely
developed underneath. Mr M said this latest  event demonstrated the increasing risk to his
familys health and physical safety.
The complaint was referred  to me and on 18 February 2020 I set out in my provisional  
decision what I thought  Aviva needed  to do to progress Mrs Ms claim. Ive repeated an 
extract below:
When making a decision  on a complaint I usually consider matters as they stood at the time
the financial business issued its final response  to the complaint. However, occasionally its
impractical to do so  for instance because the situation has moved  on or further
evidence/information has come to light. On these  occasions I need to consider things as
they currently stand.  In this case I will be considering Mrs Ms original complaint and include
the developments since our investigator made his recommendations to Aviva, in order to
arrive at a relevant, and fair answer.
The Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS)  sets out the rules  which  insurers
must follow when handling  a claim. The relevant sections of ICOBS 8.1 state an insurer
must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
                 information on its progress;
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Having looked  at all the information  provided I dont think Aviva  has acted fairly in this
respect. I can see delays in the claim on a large  number of occasions because Aviva  hasnt
provided Mrs M with the information or guidance necessary to progress the claim. It is not
acceptable for Aviva to say the complaint is with our service and for the claim to stall during
this time. Nor should our service be used as a proxy  to manage  the claim between  Mr and
Mrs M, Aviva, and its agents  which is what appears to have happened for a number of
months here. Ultimately,  Aviva is the insurer as set out by ICOBS  and it needs  to act
accordingly.
There are a number of issues which I think Mr and Mrs M have reasonably  raised with Aviva
since the complaint  has been brought to our service.  And I would have expected Aviva to
provide better clarity about the direction of the claim here. Instead, I can see Mr M has
chased Aviva a number  of times  for a meaningful response without getting one, or on other
occasions he has repeatedly been referred back to a contractor who he has had difficulty in
communicating with previously.
As Aviva has already said it accepts our investigators findings in full, I will focus more on
whats happened since then, and consider the additional points raised  by Mr M. Having
Ref: DRN71607076reviewed everything I see no reason to depart significantly from what  our investigator  has
recommended so far. But I will provide my thoughts on the additional issues  raised  by
Mr and Mrs M where I have the evidence  to do so. And I will set out what I think is a fair and
reasonable way to move the claim forward below.
Link between 2007 and 2017  claim
Ive compared  the engineers reports from the 2007  claim  to the current claim to see if
theres sufficient evidence to draw  a link between the two. Ive also taken  into account that
due to the time that has lapsed,  it will be difficult to get any further evidence about  the 2007
claim now.
Ive considered the report completed by Avivas  contractor in February 2007. The report  says
the subsidence was caused by clay shrinkage due to moisture  abstraction  by roots  altering
the moisture content of the clay subsoil resulting in volume changes, which  in turn have
affected the foundations. The report goes on to say that ongoing monitoring and
investigations arent required.
Ive next considered the certificate of structural adequacy provided to Mrs M in
December 2007.  This was done on completion  of the repairs  and states we have appraised
the property as regards to the above  damage  which in our professional  opinion  has been
caused by clay shrinkage subsidence. The issuing of this certificate is done to confirm  the
repair work was sufficient and Ive no reason  to doubt the reasons stated for the movement.
The most recent report from Aviva in February  2017  considers the present  damage  to the
property and says,  The diagonal  aspect  of the cracksis  indicative  of subsidence as a
result of shrinkage of the clay subsoil due to the moisture extracting influence of vegetation
located around the boundary of the risk address. It goes on to say, the cause of the
movement needs  to be addressed, with site investigations being required.
Aviva hasnt said what it now considers to be the cause of the movement. And it appears
from emails Ive seen that none  of the contractors who worked on the claim either in 2007 or
2017 are still present  to offer their insight. Mr M says hes provided Aviva  with details of the
engineers who worked  on the claim in 2007  if it wants to get further information, but to date it
hasnt spoken  to them.
I accept that some years have passed  between claims. But both claims indicate  clay soil
shrinkage as an underlying problem. And there isnt anything to show  the damage  to the
property was as a result of two different causes  i.e. different vegetation. Had Aviva
completed further monitoring after remedial works were completed in 2007, this would have
provided a good  indication  of whether the work it did at the time stabilised  the property. But,
Aviva hasnt provided anything to show this was the case. So unless  Aviva  is able to show
there are two distinctly different causes to the subsidence here,  I think it should refund the
£1,000 excess  to Mrs M and treat the claim as a continuation of the one raised in 2007.
Im not going  to comment on whether  the proposed removal of trees  from the hillside  above
the property will lead to further issues  this would be a matter  for the contractors appointed
to the claim to address. But I think from the evidence I have seen  this is a reasonable
concern for Mr M to raise and which Aviva  must  consider.
Ref: DRN71607077Moving the claim forward
Mr and Mrs M have  said they no longer wish to use the current contractor as there is still not
a resolution in place,  and the cause of movement is in dispute. When Aviva accepted our
investigators findings, it was reasonable that its contractor was given the opportunity to put
things right. But it hasnt  progressed  the claim as it should have. So I think Mr and Mrs Ms
request to use a different contractor is reasonable.
Given Mr and Mrs Ms experience on this claim to date, I think  it would be appropriate to
appoint an independent engineer jointly with a remit to carry out sufficient  investigations to
determine the cause of movement and paid for by Aviva. Aviva should  offer Mrs M a choice
of three  different  independent engineers and she should choose from one of those  three.
The independent engineer can review  any information either party would like them  to. Aviva
must pay for any investigations the engineer considers necessary, and the costs  of the
contractors required.  Once the cause of movement is determined, the engineer should
produce a report recommending the next steps in the claim.
I wont be providing a direction on how the claim should progress, but if Mrs M has concerns
about the next steps it can be raised as a separate complaint  with Aviva.
Mr M has requested a copy of all the information Aviva holds on the claim.  Aviva says it has
provided this, but Mr M says what hes got isnt enough to inform  an independent engineer.
I think it would be reasonable to assume that an appointed independent engineer will know
what information they need and can ask Aviva for this themselves.  But if Aviva doesnt  or
cant provide the information requested then this will likely lead to new investigations which
Aviva should  fund as part of the claim.
Temporary repairs to kitchen and drains
Aviva agreed with our investigators findings to undertake repairs to the kitchen and drains in
April 2019. Mr M has confirmed  no repairs have  taken place to date. Mr M has also provided
evidence that the kitchen  still suffers from damp, and the floor has now collapsed.
Mr M has added  the impact of not having full use of the kitchen has been significant.  He
says there  are hygiene  issues  with the kitchen area, and as such  they dont  entertain or hold
family gatherings. Mr M says the general  conditions of damp, slugs,  and water  in the kitchen
have been much the same for the last 3 years.  He says the damp had caused the kitchen
cabinets to start rotting, algae to grow on the walls,  and the ingress of water is unpredictable.
This means  they cant  make a plan for dealing with it long-term.
Based on the information Ive seen, Mrs M has been significantly impacted by the delay to
the temporary kitchen  repairs. And Ive not seen anything from Aviva to explain the delays to
either the kitchen  or the drains. So as part of this decision Aviva  must arrange for repairs  to
take place to the kitchen and drains without further avoidable delay.
Ref: DRN71607078Aviva implementing the findings
To date, Aviva  has shown  limited  progress in implementing the findings of our investigator.
And I think its been responsible for a number of avoidable delays to Mrs Ms claim.  So Aviva
should implement  the findings I intend  to set out in my final decision within  four weeks  of
Mrs M saying she accepts  my decision. If this isnt possible  for any reason Aviva  must tell
Mrs M and explain why there is a delay.  Aviva should also work with the independent
engineer to set out a detailed schedule of works  for Mrs M to show  when planned
investigations and works are taking place as soon  as is reasonably  possible.
Alternative Accommodation
Aviva hasnt made any comments about whether  or not alternative accommodation is
required. Mr and Mrs M havent said the property is currently uninhabitable either. Mrs Ms
policy terms state If the home is damaged by any cause covered under The Buildings
coverand as a result it cannot be lived inWe will also pay  b. any reasonable
accommodation expenses  for you and your  domestic animals up to the limit shown on your
schedule until the home  is ready to be lived in.
So I am satisfied that Mrs Ms policy includes cover  for alternative accommodation, and I
would expect Aviva to provide this up to the limit on Mrs Ms policy schedule should  the
property become uninhabitable.
Compensation
Ive considered that subsidence claims can be complex and will often incur delays whilst the
parties determine the best way to proceed  with the claim. But on this occasion I do think
Aviva has contributed to a significant  portion of the overall delays. I find its communication
with Mr and Mrs M lacking  in detail, and it often  ignored letters sent by Mr M asking  for an
update. I think  Aviva  could have  managed  Mr and Mrs Ms expectations much better in terms
of the scope and schedule  of investigations  required. And I find little evidence  to support why
the repairs to the kitchen  and drains havent been  done since  they were first proposed in
2017.
Aviva has indicated that both Mr M and our investigator have been obstructive in preventing
site visits, but I havent seen any evidence of this. Instead, Ive seen emails  from Mr M which
indicate he is happy to accommodate site visits, provided he is given sufficient time and
reasons for the visit. So I dont think Mr Ms actions have been unreasonable  here.
In making an award Ive considered the impact to Mrs M, the policyholder.  Mr M has
provided testimony explaining  the impact to him and Mrs M which  I am persuaded by. This
includes the disruption to their home  and family life, and time spent dealing with the claim.  I
think Mrs M has been reasonable  in accepting there can be an element of delay in
subsidence claims but shouldnt have expected things to be delayed  as much as they have.
And it appears that our service has had to intervene  on a number of occasions  to try and get
things moving for her. Overall I think the impact  to Mrs M from the delays has been
significant. She has been unable to host family  and friends in the property since  the cracking
got worse. And she has had to cook in a kitchen  which amongst other  things needs  repairing
and contains slip and trip hazards from the ongoing water ingress.
Mr M has added  that one of the bedrooms  in the house is out of use, as the floor of the room
had to be removed  for investigations. In addition hes said the utility  room cannot be fitted
Ref: DRN71607079out as the walls continue to move  and any fittings will need to be removed for repairs. So I
think Mrs M should be compensated  for not having the full use of these rooms also.
Since 2017, Mrs M is no closer  to understanding why her property is subsiding, this has
caused her a great deal of distress  in the 3 years since. And I think Mrs M would reasonably
expect the claim to be a lot further forward than it is now.
Taking into account all of the above, the further  delays since our investigators
recommendations, and overall lack of progress  to the claim,  I think  a payment of £4,500
would better  reflect the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mrs M. This payment covers
the period from when  the claim was made in January 2017, to the date Mrs M says she
accepts my final decision.
I wont be considering  compensation  for any ongoing delays, I am making a finding  on
whats happened so far. Should Mrs M have reason to complain about any further delays to
the claim,  then our service would consider this as a separate matter.
Developments
Aviva didnt have anything further  to add in response to my provisional  findings. Mr M, on 
behalf of Mrs M responded and broadly accepted my findings.  Mr M asked me to consider 
the following  points  before issuing  my final decision:
That there had been no contact from Aviva  or its contractor since  the last site visit in 
January 2020;
That unless Aviva provide a meaningful  contact  with the authority and responsibility 
to implement the recommendations, the suggested actions  will not result in a 
resolution. Mr M reiterated some of the challenges in contacting  Aviva to date in 
some detail,  and said it was essential  to have a named contact at Aviva  from whom 
they can be sure of a response,  and upon  whose statements  and actions they can 
rely on;
Similarly, Mr M asked  that Aviva sets out specifically who will have the authority to 
enable the engineer  to have the work  they consider necessary commissioned and 
subsequently their findings implemented;
Mr M said the wording with regard to the role and responsibility of the engineer is 
ambiguous, and requested it be clarified  to confirm that the engineer  is to work  
independently of Aviva, and that the engineer has a responsibility to both parties in 
the claim. Mr M also requested clarification that any investigations, findings,  results 
and reports provided to the engineer  by Aviva would be provided  to both parties;
Mr M also requested the responsibilities of the engineer to specifically include the 
provision and updating of a timeline for the investigations, the decisions to be made 
from them and the resulting works. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN716070710Based on both parties responses I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. But 
I will address the additional  comments raised  by Mr M on behalf of Mrs M below for the sake 
of clarity.
I understand from Mr Ms response  that he is concerned  with getting the claim moving again  
and having a firm timeframe to rely on for any proposed investigations and repairs.  I also 
understand his concerns regarding ongoing  communication with Aviva  and its lack of 
progress in implementing the recommendations to date.
Given these issues, I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to provide Mr M on behalf of 
Mrs M with a named  contact as he has requested. Ideally, this contact will have the authority 
or seniority  to implement  all of my requirements,  and also to authorise  and pay for an 
independent engineer to carry  out the necessary investigations. But if this requires different 
persons, I will require  Aviva to give Mr M on behalf of Mrs M the details of all relevant 
individuals so he can be kept up to date with the progress of the claim.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about the wording in regard to the independent engineer  
being ambiguous. By appointing an independent  engineer jointly,  this will ensure the 
engineer has a responsibility  to both parties  in this claim. And whilst the engineer will be paid 
for by Aviva, they will work  independently  of Aviva  and make any recommendations to both 
parties. I wont  be making a further  direction on the role and responsibilities of the 
independent engineer, as they would be the expert in this claim. And I would expect to see 
such things as timelines and decisions provided  in their reports  as a matter of course.
I therefore require  Aviva to put things right for Mrs M as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited  to:
Appoint an independent  engineer  jointly  with a remit  to carry out sufficient
investigations to determine the cause of movement and paid for by Aviva.  Aviva
should offer Mrs M a choice of three different independent engineers and she should
choose from one of those three. The independent  engineer can review  any
information either party would like them to. Aviva must pay for any investigations the
engineer considers necessary, and the costs of the contractors required. Once the
cause of movement  is determined, the engineer should produce a report
recommending the next steps in the claim, and provide this to both parties;
Provide Mrs M with all of the information it has on file for the claim to date, if it hasnt
done so already. Aviva must also provide  Mrs M with copies of any information  it 
provides to the independent engineer;
Provide Mrs M with named contacts  responsible  for implementing this decision and 
for authorising  and paying for works  done  by the independent engineer;
Arrange and ensure repairs are undertaken to the drains and kitchen;
Refund Mrs M the £1,000 excess payment for the claim;
Pay Mrs M £4,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN716070711Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mrs M accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it must  also pay interest  on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7160707