K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application  form Mr B completed at the time. I 
can see that PPI featured in a section  called Optional features. And to get the PPI 
Mr B had to put a tick in the Yes  box. I also notice there was also a No box he 
could have ticked if he didnt  want the cover. But there is a tick in the Yes  box. So I 
think Mr B would have understood this was something he could  say No to. And Mr B 
has signed the application form which suggests his agreement with the contents of 
the form.
Lloyds said it recommend the policy  to Mr B and Mr B thinks they didnt. Because  it 
makes no difference  to the outcome of this complaint whilst placing a higher test on 
the sale, I have  assessed  the complaint as if Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B. 
So, Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr B  and based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example Mr B was 
eligible for the policy and seems  to have had a need  for the cover. I say this because 
Mr B told us he had only modest  sick pay. And he also told us he had no other  
means he could have relied  on if he was off sick or if he lost his job. This policy  
couldve covered  5% of his monthly balance for up to 12 months, at which  point it 
would have cleared any balance left on the card. So as these benefits would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr B may have  been entitled to, I think Mr B 
couldve found this cover useful.
Mr B doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to 
the PPI cover. I say this whilst acknowledging that Mr B told us he was born with a 
disability. Its arguable whether, at the time of the sale, it was enough to have been a 
reason for avoiding  a policy that excluded  it. But in this case  the policy terms meant  
that Mr B could have  had a claim for this condition considered after the policy had 
been in place for a year.  So, I think that Mr B would have thought that this would be 
valuable cover. Ive also considered that Mr B could have made  a sickness claim for 
any condition that was not pre-existing had he needed to, or an unemployment claim 
if he lost his job. So, having considered all of the above, I do not think  that Mr Bs 
existing disability made this otherwise suitable policy  unsuitable.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN72741412Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If Lloyds Bank  PLC has already paid this 
amount, I make  no further award  against  Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7274141