K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax is unfairly holding him 
responsible for the arrears on his mortgage and that this has affected his credit record.
background
Mr M took a mortgage from Halifax in 2002. He later took borrowing from another  party  
secured by a second charge over his property. In 2012 that party took possession  of the 
property having  obtained a court order. The property was not sold and arrears  built up with 
Halifax. Mr M says that the party was renting  out his property and not paying  that money 
towards his debt. His arrears at Halifax are now over £40,000. He thinks  that as the second 
charge holder gave assurances  that it would be responsible for the mortgage at Halifax  he 
should not have to pay this.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-The second charge holder did not sell the property and it appears went  into compulsory 
liquidation.
-It also appeared to be an unregulated and unlicensed lender.
-Halifax could not be responsible for those actions and the consequences.  Halifax had 
provided a mortgage to Mr M and could expect him to make payments in line with his 
agreement.
-The Halifax mortgage was never  paid off by the second charge holder and so Mr M was 
responsible for making arrangements to pay this including the arrears.
-She recommended that Mr M take urgent  legal  advice about his position and that he 
might want  to contact a free debt advice agency. He could apply to put a notice of 
correction on his credit record explaining the position.
Mr M did not agree. He said that his complaint was about the arrears  and default  on his 
mortgage by Halifax. We had not addressed this part of his complaint.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 31 May 2019.  I set out below the key 
elements of what I said.
I had asked Halifax some questions about  what it saw as its role during the period after the 
property was taken  into possession by the second  charge holder. I wanted to know  
specifically how it satisfied itself that actions were  being taken in the best interests  of Mr M. 
That was especially given that the arrears  it recorded for Mr M had increased  from under 
£10,000 in 2012 to over £40,000 by 2018.  And I wanted to know whether it thought it had 
taken action at an early enough stage  and asked it to provide evidence to support this.
Ref: DRN78941052Halifax said that it was told by the second charge holder that it was going  to be responsible 
for the mortgage.  It had no reason to think anything was amiss: so it did not take action. 
The legal proceedings were a matter between Mr M and the second charge holder. And 
when it became clear  that the person running the other business had been imprisoned and 
Mr M was back in the property it began  its own proceedings to take possession.  It had to 
start fresh legal action as a previous  suspended order for possession  it obtained  in 2008 had 
become invalid after six years. The arrears are a true reflection of the mortgage  and it did 
not make  any error. The legal action is on hold while the complaint is being considered by 
this service and repossession is a last resort.
my provisional assessment
I had considered carefully what Halifax has said.  But I was not satisfied that it took action 
early enough. The issue is not solely the nature  of the activity  of the second charge holder 
which Halifax acknowledges in its final response was fraudulent conduct. The issue  is 
Halifaxs duty of care to Mr M as a first charge holder  aware that his property had been 
possessed and that all the payments are not being  made. And thats  especially  given  its 
continued position that the second charge holder would deal with the property and as Halifax  
says act in Mr Ms best interests. In my judgement such an assessment became increasingly 
unrealistic as time passed and was not supported  by the evidence.
I fully accepted that Halifax  did not know about  the circumstances which  have led to the 
criminal and regulatory action. However, it did know that nothing tangible  was happening 
and that there were  no signs  that the property was going to be sold and the mortgage repaid 
within a reasonable period of time. In fact Mr M says what he now knows  had happened was 
that the property  was being rented out and the money misappropriated by the second  charge  
holder. Theres nothing that suggests to me that sale of the property would have been 
problematic or that there were particular reasons to hold it for an extended period. And if 
there were such reasons  I would have expected Halifax to have known and documented 
them and satisfied  itself that these were  appropriate.
I invited Halifax to give me some further  explanation of its specific actions  but it had not done 
so. I had looked at its contact logs and I didnt see it received any firm assurances about 
what the second charge holder was doing  with the property. My understanding was that the 
property was repossessed in October 2012. Halifax had a duty of care to Mr M. And I found 
based on what Id seen that it cannot  reasonably say it satisfied that duty beyond December 
2013. I said that because I thought by then there had been  a reasonable time to sell the 
property.
It is not possible to determine  by exactly what means  Halifax  could either have influenced  
the actions of the second charge holder  or taken its own legal action. But it was the first 
charge holder and that gave it rights as well as responsibilities to Mr M in this situation.
In the absence of any clear  evidence I took the view that this ought to have been  resolved by 
Halifax by the end of 2014. By then arrears on the mortgage had grown by £5,000 since  
2013. There had been no progress in achieving a sale and there was no positive information  
from the second charge holder Id seen about  such a sale.  My provisional view was that it 
was reasonable  to expect that Halifax ought to have taken its own action by that time to 
ensure the sale of the property. Thats especially as Mr M was no longer living  there and it 
seemed to have  been rented out without Halifaxs consent.
Ref: DRN78941053my provisional award
I said my aim is to put Mr M in the position  he should have been in. Thats  difficult as he is 
now back living in the property and says he wants to retain it.
I needed to deal with this in separate stages. First, I needed an estimate of the position if the 
property had been sold by 31 December 2014  as I think should  have happened.  That means  
stopping interest accrual from that point and working out what the balance of the mortgage 
then was. Halifax could  also ask a surveyor what the open market sale value of the property 
would have been at that point. It can allow for reasonable professional costs of sale.  That will 
result in a net figure from the sale of the property.  As Halifax was a first charge holder I 
suspected that this would be a positive figure.
Second, the mortgage could be reworked to the current time but with no interest from 
31 December 2014. This would  establish the appropriate arrears position now.  Here I agreed 
with Halifax that it was Mr Ms responsibility  to make payments - at least  to the extent of 
capital. And so I couldnt see any basis  to remove all the arrears as he has asked. Those 
arrears will still give Halifax a basis to take legal action to repossess the property. There is 
also no conclusion other than that Mr M has defaulted on the mortgage agreement and that 
this should be reflected  on his credit record. But as Halifax has said,  repossession should be 
a last resort. I said I would expect it now to act fairly  and attempt to reach a payment plan to 
deal with arrears. Thats  particularly taking into account the unfortunate wider  actions of the 
second charge  holder even where Halifax cannot be directly  responsible.  Should  Mr M elect 
to remain in the property as I believed he wants then interest  should  again start. 
The mortgage would then run in line with the normal terms and conditions.
This situation is complex and there  are important consequences for Mr M. This service 
cannot advise  him what to do and I echoed the adjudicators recommendation that he take 
specialist advice on this. In my provisional view I said he should  have  two options:
a)Agree to settle the mortgage with Halifax based on the position  most likely at the end of 
31 December 2014. His credit  record would show the mortgage as settled on that date. 
This means he would  voluntarily surrender  the property and his rights to it. I made clear 
that it doesnt matter  under this option what the current value of his property is. This is a 
backdated award assuming the property  was sold then.
b)Using the revised figure for the current arrears of the mortgage, work with Halifax  to 
attempt to find an arrangement to clear  these. This will mean interest again starts to 
accrue and the option under 1 lapses. He then takes full responsibility  for the mortgage  
and Halifax retains the ability to continue with legal  action if no arrangement  can be 
found
I said I was going  to give an extended  period for his response to my provisional  decision 
given the complexity  here. 
And I said that I fully appreciated  that neither option  will settle the matter as Mr M wants. 
But Im afraid that this resolution does in my provisional view fairly reflect the extent of 
responsibility of Halifax.  I also intended  to require  Halifax to pay Mr M £500 given the 
element of distress  I considered it has caused.
my findings
Ref: DRN78941054Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he would accept  my provisional  decision and that he wanted  to proceed with the 
option to stay in the property and reach an agreement  to repay the mortgage.
Halifax said that it had now carried out some calculations about its proposal  for the 
mortgage. It said that it had reconstructed the mortgage as it was in December 2014. It had 
removed any interest  or charges that had accrued to the account since  December 2014. 
Halifax said that this meant the total balance  had reduced to £107,863.21 and the total 
arrears to £12,583.77. It said that Mr Ms credit  file would be amended to reflect the 
reconstruction and account position. He would then have the opportunity  to work with it to 
find a way to address  not only the monthly  payments  but the arrears. It would consider 
alternative options such as the capitalisation of arrears. But it said that any course would be 
dependent on an assessment of affordability. Halifax said Mr M should make  contact  with it.
I appreciate the positive  response from Halifax to my provisional decision.  And as I said 
before if Mr M wants to follow this option  from Halifax it will be necessary for him to take 
responsibility to reach agreement over the future payments. Halifax  does retain all its legal 
rights if no arrangement can be found.  I would expect it to deal with him fairly.
I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision should be the resolution 
here. I have  set out clear timings for each of the options involved below. I am additionally 
going to ask Halifax to write to Mr M to explain  the current position on the mortgage and how 
it has arrived at its calculations. Thats so he is clear what  the position now before the date 
that interest  and charges will again  resume. And also to help him assess  his options 
following my decision as I fully appreciate he is in a difficult financial position with a 
mortgage that remains in arrears.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to:
1)Rework the mortgage balance  by stopping interest from 31 December 2014 and 
using this as a basis to determine current arrears.
2)Provide Mr M with a written summary  of (1) within  two weeks  of my decision setting  
out the basis for the calculations and what he is now responsible  for repaying. If he 
has not already  been in contact provide him with a relevant contact point to discuss 
repayment and his financial position.
3)Provide Mr M on his request with an option to settle the mortgage based on 
assumptions as set out above about a sale of the property on 31 December 2014. 
Mr M would need  to sign a binding commitment  to accept this within a month of 
accepting my final decision. And to commit to voluntarily surrender the property 
within three months of accepting my decision. Under this option the mortgage 
settlement date should be reported as 31 December 2014.
Ref: DRN789410554)If he does not select  and proceed  with option  (3) then resume  interest  and the normal 
terms and conditions  of the mortgage  from a date no earlier than one month  after the 
date of my final decision based on the figures given  in (1).
5)Pay, not credit, £500 to Mr M for the distress  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7894105