K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in August 1995.  The policy was 
added to Mr Gs credit card account  when  he applied for the card in one of the banks 
branches.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr G disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
saying, in summary, that the cover  under  the policy was inadequate as it was only for 
12 months. He also told us his complaint about  PPI on his mortgage had been upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs complaint.
Barclays doesnt have  a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago. In cases  like this, I reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint because:
The application form included equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI. Mr G 
ticked the Yes box and then signed  the application form to confirm the details were 
correct. So overall  I think  Barclaycard  made  Mr G aware that the PPI was optional  and 
that he chose  to take it  although I can understand why he can no longer remember 
this.
Mr G told us he wouldve received  six to twelve months pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident.  The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months in addition to any existing arrangements and it wouldve covered him if hed 
become unemployed. So I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for Mr G based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr G says the cover was inadequate 
because it wouldve only covered him for 12 months.  But, bearing in mind the cost of the 
policy, this was a reasonable  amount of cover  particularly  in his circumstances where 
he wouldve also received  some sick pay.
Ive taken  into account what Mr G says about  being able to rely on family to help him if 
he couldnt meet his monthly credit card repayments. But as this wasnt  a guaranteed  
source of income, this doesnt change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN73797362Its possible  the information Barclaycard gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But Mr G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  
this type of cover. He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely Mr G 
would have made  a different decision if better information  had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have  taken out the policy.
Mr G told us that his complaint about PPI on a mortgage had been  upheld. But this doesnt 
make a difference to this complaint  Ive considered the circumstances of the sale of this 
PPI and the outcome of his other complaint doesnt alter my findings here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7379736