K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down their claim  under  their travel insurance  policy  with it. 
background 
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs P took out an annual  multi-trip travel  insurance policy  with a 
start date in January 2017. The insurer is Mapfre.  They arranged  the policy through  their 
insurance intermediary or broker, which Ill call A. Through A, and in response to questions 
about medical information, Mr and Mrs P told Mapfre about Mrs Ps medical  conditions.  
Mapfre charged an additional £9.90  to cover Mrs Ps medical conditions. 
In May 2017  Mrs P was unfortunately diagnosed with metastatic endometrial  carcinoma . 
As I understand it, this is where a cancer  which has started in the uterus (womb) has spread 
to other  parts of the body. As she needed chemotherapy she was advised not to travel. She 
and Mr P cancelled their pre-booked holidays  and made a claim to Mapfre.
Mapfre asked Mr and Mrs P and her doctors  for further information. It then turned down their 
claim. It said that Mr and Mrs P should have told it that Mrs P had been diagnosed with 
endometrial cancer  (cancer  in the womb) in mid-2015, when  shed had a hysterectomy.  If it 
had known this Mapfre said it wouldnt have offered cover  for any of her medical conditions. 
So it wouldnt pay the claim. Mr and Mrs P came  to us. They said theyd told A about Mrs Ps 
hysterectomy.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She said Mapfre had given us evidence  to show it 
wouldnt have covered Mrs Ps medical  conditions if it had known about her cancer and 
hysterectomy. As Mapfre wouldnt have covered any of Mrs Ps medical conditions our 
adjudicator said it should  refund the additional premium of £9.90, with interest. But otherwise 
she didnt uphold the complaint. She explained how Mr and Mrs P could make a complaint 
about their broker, which  theyve since done.
Mapfre agreed to the refund of the additional premium of £9.90, but Mr and Mrs P didnt 
think this was a fair outcome. So the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
This decision is confined  to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  about  Mapfre.  Ive issued a separate  
decision on their complaint about A. 
Mapfre asked Mr P a series of questions  when he applied  for the travel  insurance policy 
through his insurance broker. The questions Mapfre asked were:
1.Has anyone on the policy ever been diagnosed with or treated for a heart condition, 
a circulatory condition  (for example problems with blood  flow, including  strokes,  high 
blood pressure,  and cholesterol),  aneurysm  or brain haemorrhage?
2.Has anyone on the policy received treatment for cancer in the last 5 years?
3.Is anyone currently waiting for any surgery, consultations, investigations or follow-
ups?
Ref: DRN757987124.In the last 2 years  has anyone had surgery, consultations, investigations or follow-up, 
or had any treatment or medication prescribed?
Through A Mapfre was told about Mrs Ps hip replacement and PMT (pre-menstrual  tension) 
(and conditions  for Mr P). 
I think Mapfres questions were reasonably clear.  So I now need to decide  whether, through 
A, Mr and Mrs P took reasonable care in answering those questions. If not, then Mapfre is 
entitled to apply the terms that would have applied  if the questions had been answered  
carefully.
Mapfre says that Mr and Mrs P didnt tell it about  Mrs Ps cancer. When looking  into the 
claim it received medical evidence from Mrs Ps GP and consultant, which  said that Mrs P 
had been diagnosed with endometrial cancer in 2015. In June 2015 shed had a 
hysterectomy with curative intent. In response to the specific  questions Mapfre  had asked 
(set out above) the GP said for the endometrial cancer  shed had no follow-ups in the two 
years before the policy was taken out and hadnt been on any waiting lists; and that shed 
been on the same medication for many years. In January 2017 Mrs Ps condition 
deteriorated, and following  a CT scan she was given  the diagnosis that the womb cancer 
had spread in May 2017.
Mapfre has given us evidence to confirm that, if Mrs P had told it about  the 2015  cancer  
diagnosis when Mr and Mrs P applied for the policy then it wouldnt have covered any of 
Mrs Ps medical conditions.
So Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs P took reasonable care in answering  its medical  
questions. In summary, Mr and Mrs P have said the following about their answers:
They did tell A about  Mrs Ps hysterectomy. Mr P said that during diagnostic tests 
symptoms were  found which was confirmed by her consultant  and a hysterectomy 
was needed in 2015. Shed had regular  check-ups with the consultant  following  the 
hysterectomy. The consultant was adamant nothing  was wrong,  and stressed it was 
OK for her to take holidays (and they had taken long haul holidays in January 2017  
and March 2017). 
Mrs Ps cancer only became apparent in May 2017, after shed had further tests in 
2017. They  thought it was just a hysterectomy for fibroids.
From our investigation into the complaint  about  A, I can see that Mrs P did tell the broker 
about the womb  cancer shed had in 2015.  But that information wasnt passed on to Mapfre.  
And Mapfre simply wouldnt have insured Mrs P for any of her medical conditions  if it had 
been told about her cancer. 
Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation claim was directly related to the 2015 cancer, which  
unfortunately was found to have spread in 2017.  I appreciate Mrs P had been told in 2015 
that she was fit to travel, and that she was in remission. But this doesnt change  the 
outcome. This is because  Mapfre wouldnt have covered Mrs P for any claims directly 
related to the 2015 cancer if it had been  told about that cancer.  And Im afraid this means 
Mapfre was entitled  to turn down their claim. 
Mapfre has now offered to refund the additional  premium for the medical conditions Mrs P 
told it about, with 8% simple interest.  I think this is a reasonable response in the specific 
Ref: DRN75798713circumstances of this complaint, so I dont require Mapfre to do any more to resolve the 
complaint.  
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr and Mrs P, for the reasons Ive given I think  Mapfre  
Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to refund the additional  premium of £9.90, plus interest* at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date they paid this amount  to the date of settlement. So I dont 
require Mapfre to do any more than this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs P a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7579871