K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  didnt replace his water tank after 
he made a claim on his home emergency  insurance  policy. 
background
Mr M contacted Aviva  in March 2018  to claim  on his home emergency  insurance policy  to fix 
a leak. The engineer said the leak was coming from his water  tank which he said needed 
replacing. But he says that Mr Ms policy doesnt  cover replacement of water tanks. The 
engineer said he would  drain  the water tank, but said Mr M would need to make  his own 
arrangements for the tank to be replaced.  
Mr M called back  the next day to say the tank was still leaking.  Aviva sent another engineer 
around who said that the previous engineer hadnt  emptied the water tank properly.  So he 
fully emptied it and replaced the gate valve. Mr M then arranged for a plumber to replace the 
water tank for £500 in cash.
Mr M then reviewed  the terms of his policy and he didnt think the terms said that the 
replacement of the tank was excluded. So he called Aviva to complain. Aviva said that the 
terms had been  updated to now say that it was excluded. And it maintained that the 
replacement wasnt covered under the policy. But it acknowledged that the first engineer 
didnt empty the tank correctly, so it paid him £250 in compensation  half the cost Mr M 
incurred in replacing the water tank.  It said it was unable  to reimburse the full £500 without 
an invoice for the replacement  water tank, which Mr M said he didnt have. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that, while the terms of the policy  
didnt say the replacement of the water tank was excluded, they didnt say it was covered. 
So she didnt think it was unfair for Aviva to say that it wasnt  required to replace  the water  
tank. She also said that £250 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
failure to empty the water  tank properly the first time had caused Mr M. 
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators opinion. He said that the new terms and conditions  
specifically say that replacement of the water tank isnt covered. So he thinks that, as the 
terms conditions in place  at the time didnt say this, its implied  that the loss is covered. The 
investigator maintained  that the terms of the policy dont say its covered so she still didnt 
think Aviva  had acted unfairly.  So Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr M says that, as the terms of the policy dont exclude replacement  of the water tank, Aviva 
should have covered it. But I dont  agree. The starting point for assessing whether a 
particular loss is covered  is to see what  the policy does cover  i.e. the policyholder  has to 
show that the loss is caused by whats called an insured event. If the terms cover the insured 
event, then its for the insurer to show that theres  an exclusion which says that the particular 
loss the policyholder is claiming for isnt covered.
Ref: DRN79295292In this case, the terms and conditions say:
PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE
What is covered?
Plumbing and Drainage. You are covered for incidents relating to your plumbing and 
drainage. The engineer  will resolve  the immediate problem by repairing or replacing  leaking 
pipes, clearing blockages,  repairing taps, restoring toilet  facilities,  repairs  to leaking 
overflows, investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening these where they can be 
accessed. The engineer will leave a blocked dram running clear  by clearing the dram or 
repairing or replacing the damaged section  of waste pipe This will include  the temporary 
reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of the claim.
I think this sets out a list of everything that Mr M is covered for under his home  emergency  
policy and this doesnt say that Aviva covers the replacement of the water tank. So Aviva 
didnt need to include a further  exclusion clause to say that the replacement isnt covered, 
given its not covered  in the first place. So Im satisfied that the policy terms dont cover the 
replacement of Mr Ms water tank.
I also dont think that this is unreasonable as the policy was a home emergency insurance 
policy. The purpose  of this type of insurance  policy is for an insurer  to arrange  an emergency  
repair to stop a leak etc. Its not designed  to replace  all goods that are damaged. In this 
case, Aviva  arranged for the water  tank to be drained and the gate valve  to be replaced  to 
stop the leak. So it did what was expected under the terms of the policy.
I note that Mr M says that the updated  terms and conditions do now specifically say that the 
replacement of the water tank isnt covered. But I dont think  this is a change of the terms, 
but Aviva  is just being more specific about what is and isnt covered. So I dont think this 
means that Aviva has to cover the full £500  cost Mr M has incurred.
I can see that the initial engineer didnt drain the water tank correctly. And Ive taken Mr Ms 
comments in respect  to the distress and inconvenience this caused him. But Aviva has 
already paid him £250 in compensation for this. And this is more  than I would have  awarded,  
so I dont think it needs to pay him anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7929529