K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  cancelled his motor  insurance policy from the 
start (voided it) after his motorcycle was stolen. He wants  it remove  records  of the voidance 
from all databases.
background
Mr Ps motorbike  was stolen from a different address  than the insured one. Ageas declined  
the claim and voided the policy because it said Mr P hadnt kept his motorbike in a locked 
garage. It said it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known that it wouldnt be kept in a 
locked garage.  Mr P accepted that Ageas could decline  his claim. But he thought hed kept 
his bike securely stored and so the policy shouldnt  be voided.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Ageas  
hadnt asked Mr P a clear  question about  where the bike was to be stored.  She thought the 
garage requirement wasnt clearly defined  in the policy. So she thought it was unfair for 
Ageas to rely on this to void the policy. She thought Mr P should retain his refunded 
premium. She thought  Ageas  should remove all records of the voidance  from any databases 
where it was recorded and give Mr P a letter to confirm this.
Ageas replied that it disagreed. It asked for an ombudsmans review,  so the complaints 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps bike was stolen from another address where hed stored  it in a locked compound. He 
accepts that he should  have told Ageas about this arrangement and that its reasonable for it 
to decline his claim for the theft of his bike. So I wont consider this further. 
Ageas said it voided the policy because it found that Mr P didnt have a garage  at his 
address. It said the policy required the bike to be kept in a garage  at the insured address 
overnight. But Mr P said he kept the bike in his house. He said hed chosen the closest  
option to this when he took out the policy. 
Ageas also said it would have declined the policy if it had known that the bike was to be kept 
at another address behind  locked  gates. But I think Ageas has already established that Mr P 
made this change after hed taken out the policy. Misrepresentation occurs when a policy is 
taken out or at renewal.  So, whilst I think this may have been a reason to decline the claim 
as the new risk was unacceptable,  I dont  think its a fair reason to void the policy.
Ageas said that when  Mr P took out his policy hed misrepresented where the bike was to be 
stored overnight. Mr P took out his policy online though an intermediarys  website. Ageas 
said hed ticked that the bike was to be stored  overnight in a locked garage. But it found that 
Mr P didnt have a garage at his home address. 
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
take into account the relevant legislation. We look firstly to see that it asked a clear question  
when the policy was taken out. 
Ref: DRN71856012 
The website Mr P used  to take out his policy gave three  options  for where the bike was to be 
kept. These  were road, driveway or locked garage.  No definition  is provided  for locked 
garage. But Mr Ps policy has a garaging  warranty clause. This says that, for cover to apply, 
the bike must be kept in a locked and secured  building at the insured address. 
When Mr P took out his policy,  he kept his bike inside his house. I think  thats a locked and 
secured building. I think Ageas didnt make it clear  what it meant by a locked  garage.  When  
an insurers questions are ambiguous, we think this may lead a consumer to unwittingly 
provide an incorrect  answer. So in these  circumstances we favour the consumer.
I think Mr P took reasonable care to answer  the question  correctly. He intended for his bike 
to be stored  securely  in his locked house. There was no option for this, so he chose what  
was closest. So I dont think Mr P made a qualifying misrepresentation under the relevant 
legislation. And I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on this to void the 
policy. 
Ageas said that the intermediarys website wasnt more specific  about  the garage definition  
because of the different requirements of the panel of insurers that used it. But I dont think  
this is a sufficient reason  to penalise Mr P. 
So as the policy was voided unfairly,  I think Ageas needs to remove records of the voidance 
from any databases where its recorded.  I understand that Ageas refunded Mr Ps premiums  
in full. I think that in the circumstances its fair and reasonable for Mr P to retain this to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
1.Remove any record of the voidance or cancellation from any databases, internal or 
external, where  its been recorded.
2.Provide Mr P with a letter of confirmation  when this has been  removed. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7185601