K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs O says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs O case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  application completed at the time. The form 
had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  had been selected  and 
printed before it was signed by Mrs O. I think  its likely  the PPI was selected as a result of a 
conversation between Mrs O and the Halifax  representative. As Mrs O was agreeing  to 
additional credit, I would have expected  her to have read the form and raised  any questions 
she had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I think Halifax  made  it clear  that 
Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she may not remember this now many  years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs O so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs O has said she would  have received six months full followed by six months  half sick 
pay from her employer  at the time if she was too ill to work. But this policy would cover 10% 
of the outstanding balance of her account  for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work or 
she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any other 
full pay she would receive. So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O. But Halifax 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mrs O, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN74040062Ive thought about everything Mrs O has said but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mrs O any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs O the difference  between  
what Mrs O owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mrs O 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs O can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7404006