K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to her alongside a store card in 2002. 
Although FICL didnt  provide Miss T with the store card, it has accepted responsibility for 
complaints like this about PPI. 
I can see that Miss T complained to FICL about two PPI policies. However, my decision is 
about the cover that was sold in March  2002 only. I can see that FICL has upheld Miss Ts 
other complaint. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Miss T disagreed with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss T, but I havent  upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Miss T told us that she couldnt remember where  PPI was sold to her. Ive had the benefit  of 
considering the application form she completed for the store  card and it appears likely to be 
that it was sold to her in a store. I cant know what was said to Miss T when she took this 
cover out. And Miss T told us that she doesnt remember.  So to help me decide  whats likely 
to have happened, Ive considered the paperwork that is available  from the time.  
In her PPI questionnaire, Miss T told us that she was coaxed  into taking the store  card out 
and she wasnt told she could opt out of PPI. I dont doubt  that what  Miss T told us about  
the sale is what she honestly recalls. But shed also told us that she couldnt remember  how 
the PPI was sold to her. So its not immediately clear how she would have known the PPI 
wasnt presented as optional. 
I can see from the credit agreement that Miss T has signed the form to indicate she wanted  
a PPI policy. And shed  refused other financial products that were  available at the same  
time. I can see that the form says relatively  clearly that Miss T should  only sign the box if she 
wanted to take PPI out. So although I appreciate she doesnt now remember,  I think Miss T 
would have reasonably known she was buying  PPI and that she could have refused cover if 
she didnt want it. 
The evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest FICL  advised Miss T to buy PPI. But it still had to 
make sure she had enough information about  the cover so she could decide for herself  
whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
Looking at the credit agreement, I dont think the cost of the policy is set out. I also dont 
think that its clear Miss T would have had to pay interest on her premiums  if she didnt clear 
Ref: DRN71294232her balance every month. So the question for me now is whether Miss T would have acted 
differently if FICL had told her everything it should  have done.  To help me decide what shes  
likely to have done, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also thought  
about what Miss T told us about her personal circumstances from that time. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on her PPI policy, 15% of Miss Ts store  card 
balance would have  been covered for every month  she was out of work up to a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim. 
Miss T told us that she had some sick pay, but it seems that the PPI cover would have lasted 
for longer than her full sick pay would have  lasted. And I think  that PPI would have allowed 
Miss T use any other  means she had on her other essential expenditure at what  would have 
no doubt been a very stressful time if she was out of work. 
Miss T told us she was in good health  when  she bought the policy,  so I dont think  shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual  about her employment  circumstances  that would have stopped her 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
Overall, I think that the PPI could have been  helpful to Miss T if she couldnt  work. And 
although I appreciate she doesnt now remember, I think  she chose to buy this policy  so it 
looks as though she wanted  this type of cover. With all of this in mind, I dont think  more  or 
better information about the PPI would  have caused  her to act differently. It follows that I 
havent upheld  the complaint and I dont require  FICL to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7129423