K822xcomplaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the servicing  of her gas fire by British  Gas Insurance Limited  and with
what it did after the fire stopped working.
background 
Mrs L had a new gas fire installed in her property in 2009. After the manufacturers warranty
on this expired she added this to an existing home care insurance policy with British  Gas.
The policy offered servicing and repair of the fire. British Gas attended to carry out the
service in subsequent  years.
In 2017 the fire stopped  working and repairs were  carried out by British  Gas. Issues to do
with that repair have been considered by British  Gas as part of a separate complaint.
However, Mrs L says at that time the engineer found a blockage  needed to be removed from
the chimney. But this was later found  to be part of the original fire meaning it must have
been there for many years. That led Mrs L to question whether the previous services had
been properly  carried out.
Mrs L had further problems with the fire and called out British  Gas again who carried  out
repairs. In November 2018 the fire stopped working  again. British Gas then told her in
January it wasnt able to repair the fire because  it couldnt obtain access  to do so without
impacting the marble surround around the fire (it said this was because of poor installation).
It said it would remove the fire from her policy and refund the costs  Mrs L had paid for this
for the current year.
Mrs L was unhappy  with this. She said access could be obtained by removing the side
panels of the fire in line with the manufacturers instructions. And the engineer she
subsequently employed had been  able to do so. She said to service  the fire in line with the
manufacturers instructions the side panels needed  to be removed. So she didnt think 
British Gas could  ever have carried out a proper service of her fire. And she thought  all of 
the premiums shed paid for this should  be refunded  to her.
Our investigator noted an initial  job report from British Gas said the fire would be serviced on
a best endeavours basis and he thought Mrs L would  have  been  told that at the time. Having
reviewed the job sheets British Gas provided he thought it provided the service she was told
shed receive. And he thought British Gas had provided a reasonable explanation as to why
it wasnt able to repair the fire.
Mrs L didnt agree. She thought British  Gas should  have repaired her fire under her
insurance policy. Because it didnt shed had to pay another engineer to do this who was
able to access the and repair the fire without  removing  the marble surround. She said 
British Gas had never explained the fire was being  serviced on a best endeavours basis. 
And she didnt think this had been done  properly in any case.
Before reaching a decision on the complaint I let both sides  have my initial thoughts.  In 
summary I said:
I agreed with Mrs L that the fire hadnt  been serviced  in line with the manufacturers
instructions which  require the removal  of the side panels. However,  a manufacturers 
service isnt what her policy provides. Under its terms whats required is a check  to 
ensure the appliance is working  safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.  
And the notes British  Gas provided  indicate  thats  what was carried out.
Ref: DRN75357552However, I could understand why the discovery  of the old fire in the chimney would 
cause Mrs L to question  whether  those checks had been properly carried out; I thought a 
key component of a safety check would include ensuring the chimney was clear of 
obstructions to enable  the fire to vent safely. So it wasnt clear to me the safety  checks 
had been carried  out correctly even  on a best endeavours  basis.
But I didnt think British Gas should refund the premiums Mrs L paid for the policy.  The 
price she paid for this included cover for repairs  to her fire. And information  on 
British Gass website  suggested that policies which  didnt  include  a safety check (and 
with the same excess)  could  cost more than the policy which  covered her fire. That 
suggests the main  cost of the policy was the insurance to cover the repairs with the 
safety check being a free or very low cost add on.
I did feel there was more British Gas needed to do in relation to the claim Mrs L made in 
November 2018. It told us it wasnt able to carry out those  repairs because doing  so 
would require removing  the marble surround  of the fire and Mrs L had made complaints 
about the damage it had previously caused to the marble.  But Mrs L contacted her own 
engineer who was able to carry out the repairs  after the stone (granite) panels around 
the fire had been removed (and without working  on the marble surround).
That appears to be the method for accessing the concealed  elements  of the fire set out 
in the manufacturers  instructions. Those panels  appear to have been sealed in place so 
the job was slightly  more complicated that it might otherwise have been. However, Mrs 
Ls policy  covers  getting access  to your boiler, appliance or system, and then repairing 
any damage we may cause in doing so. So I thought this work should have been 
covered by her policy.
In my view British  Gas had wrongly  concluded  work would be required to the marble 
surround of the fireplace or provided incorrect information to Mrs L about what needed to 
be done. I thought it likely if it had correctly advised her the work could be carried  out by 
removing the side panels without working on the marble its likely Mrs L would have 
agreed to that.
I thought British Gas should refund the amount Mrs L had been  charged by her engineer  
for the repairs to the fire together  with any other  costs associated  with this repair that she 
wouldnt otherwise  have had to pay and which she could evidence.
British Gas didnt  respond  to my initial thoughts. Mrs L did and said: 
She thought  I should take into account problems that arose  when her fire stopped  
working in 2017 and highlighted some of the issues this had caused;  she didnt think  the 
compensation British  Gas offered  at that time did enough  to put things right and she 
regarded this as one continuous saga;
If proper safety checks werent carried out to the fire this is something that was in itself of 
concern to her;
There were  missed  appointments relating to the most recent  issues  with the fire and 
British Gas gave  her inaccurate information  about what work was required to repair it;
Ref: DRN75357553Mrs L also drew  attention to some  health  problems shed suffered from and said she 
believed the stress caused by the issues with the fire had been  a contributory factor in 
this.
Having considered what Mrs L said I issued a provisional decision earlier this month. In 
summary I said:
The issues  from 2017 were addressed  by British Gas as part of a separate  complaint  at that 
time. And our rules say we can only consider complaints  that were  referred  to us within six 
months of a business  issuing its final response  to the complaint  (unless  the business agrees 
or there are exceptional circumstances).
In this case I wasnt clear what the date of that final response was as British Gas hadnt 
provided me with a copy of it. But in any case thats  something wed have to consider in 
more detail as part of a separate complaint; as part of this complaint I was only looking at the 
issues British Gas considered in its final response of January 2019.
I considered whether it should pay additional  compensation in relation to what it got
wrong here.  I noted British Gas had already agreed  to refund the cost Mrs L paid for the 
policy for the relevant year. I thought that did enough to recognise the impact on her of the 
appointments that were missed in relation  to this repair. But I accepted  she was then
put to unnecessary inconvenience in arranging for her own engineer  to repair  the fire. Given
the health issues that were affecting her I thought  that was likely to have caused  more stress 
than might otherwise  have been  the case.
I also accepted  that not knowing whether her fire had been correctly  serviced  would in itself 
have been distressing for her. Taking  that into account I thought British Gas should pay her 
£100 (in addition to refunding the costs she incurred in getting her fire repaired).  
reponses to my provisional  decision
British Gas didnt  respond. Mrs L did and said:
She didnt feel the proposed compensation was enough given  she was without a fire for 
a number of months and the overall  inconvenience and stress she was caused; 
She was under the impression that safety  checks of her fire were being carried  out and 
there was no option to take out a different sort of policy. And she provided  more detail 
about what had happened during the visits from British Gas in support of her view that 
checks werent carried out correctly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75357554I appreciate Mrs L was under the impression  a safety check  of her fire was being carried  out. 
And for the reasons Ive explained its not clear to me that was done. But I wasnt suggesting 
Mrs L should have  taken out a different policy if shed  wanted a safety check of her fire. The 
point I was making was that when looking at the cost of hers and alternative policies I 
thought the main thing Mrs L was paying for was insurance to cover  the repairs to her fire 
rather than the annual service. And so I didnt think it would be fair to say British Gas should  
refund what shed paid for this policy. 
Ive also reflected on the comments  Mrs L made  about the impact  on her. As she knows Im 
only considering  in this decision the issues British Gas addressed in its final response  in 
January 2019.  But I do recognise  shes been  caused stress and inconvenience as a result of 
what it got wrong. I also think it likely her fire would have been  working  sooner if it wasnt  for 
that. 
However, Ive also taken into account  that the fire isnt the only heat source in her property; I 
can see theres a reference  to British Gas carrying out work to radiators in its job notes. And 
its already refunded the cost of the policy for the relevant  year. On balance  I continue to feel 
that a further payment of £100 does enough to recognise the impact on Mrs L of what it got 
wrong. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited will need to refund Mrs L 
the amount shes been charged by her engineer for the repairs to her fire. It will also need to 
refund any other costs  associated with this repair that she wouldnt otherwise have had to 
pay and which she can evidence. And it will need to pay her £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7535755