K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  him a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2012. He paid a monthly fee for the account which provided several benefits in 
return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
30 January 2019.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Mr F agreed with my provisional  
findings and didnt add anything further. Lloyds confirmed receipt of my provisional decision 
but didnt provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received anything further  to make me think otherwise, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Lloyds should  to put Mr F in the position hed be in now if Lloyds hadnt  mis-sold him the 
Silver account. I require  Lloyds to: 
Pay Mr F the amount  he paid each month  for the Silver account.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr F has saved  money because of a better  rate on his overdraft, loan or savings 
account by having  the packaged  account  and Lloyds can show exactly  how much Mr F 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays him. Lloyds  must  explain 
clearly and simply to Mr F how it has worked  out any deductions.
If Mr F has incurred  unarranged overdraft fees or returned item fees as a result of the 
Silver account fees, Lloyds should  also refund those fees.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr F a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN79358432my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and 
require Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79358433EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED JANUARY 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr Fs complaint.  
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr Fs complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think Lloyds acted  fairly when it sold the Silver 
account to Mr F. Ill explain why.
Its fair to say that Mr F consented to the upgrade  of his account, as he signed  a document  to confirm 
that. But given everything Ive seen, that doesnt persuade me that Mr F knew what he was signing up 
to, nor indeed that Lloyds sold Mr F the account in his best interests.
Lloyds has provided a copy of its Interview Summary Document that it says was completed at the 
time Mr Fs account was upgraded.  And Lloyds has pointed out that the documents shows Mr F 
expressed an interest in car breakdown  cover, travel insurance,  and card protection  cover.
The document  goes on to include the text I have highlighted a Classic  account as we are unable  to 
offer you an account which meets your insurance  needs.  It then shows  that Lloyds sold Mr F the 
Silver account  which  included  insurance  benefits.
I dont know exactly what conversation took place  and its possible that some insurance  benefits were 
discussed. But the document Ive seen  persuade  me that neither the Silver account   nor indeed 
Lloyds other  packaged accounts  were  right for Mr F. And I havent seen anything  else to suggest  
why Lloyds  then proceeded to sell Mr F the Silver account. 
I can see from Lloyds records that Mr F did increase  his overdraft at the same time as upgrading his 
account. So its entirely plausible that Mr F either didnt know  his account was upgraded, but thought 
he was signing to increase his overdraft limit. Or, he was given incorrect information  and told hed 
have to upgrade in order  to do it. Either way, I dont think Lloyds shouldve sold Mr F the account  
without clear notes or reasons for doing so.
I appreciate that Lloyds  says Mr F appears to have had a car and couldve benefited  from the Silver 
accounts breakdown insurance. But his lack of engagement with any of the accounts benefits 
satisfies me that its more likely than not that Mr F wasnt aware of the Silver accounts benefits. So 
even if he could have  used them, he wouldnt  have been able to as he didnt know about  them.
Im mindful that Mr Fs sister shared some information about Mr Fs medical conditions.  I dont know 
how much  of this Lloyds  was aware of at the time it sold the Silver account,  but it has shown a note in 
his records  which reads Electronic payments  prohibited. I dont  know the reason for this note, but I 
think its likely it could be in relation to Mr Fs vulnerability. 
I also dont agree with Lloyds comment that Mr F seems financially savvy as he holds a number of 
other banking products  with Lloyds. Having reviewed his bank statements, Mr F was charged 
numerous unplanned overdraft fees and returned direct debit fees in the year preceding the upgrade. 
This doesnt resemble someone who is particularly  financially savvy.
This means  I dont think Lloyds acted fairly when  it sold the Silver  account to Mr F, and I think  Mr F 
has lost out as a result  of that. So I intend to tell Lloyds  to put things right.
Ref: DRN7935843