K821x#15complaint
Ms M says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ),  lent to her irresponsibly. 
The complaint has been brought to this service on Ms Ms behalf by a claims management 
company (CMC). But for ease I have  referred  below to all actions being taken by Ms M 
unless stated otherwise.
background
QQ agreed 6 short  term loans, two top up loans and one refinance  loan for Ms M from 
July 2011 until November 2017.  Loans  6, 6a and 6b havent been repaid. Ive set out a 
summary of the lending  below.
Loan 
numberDateLoan amount 
(£)Number of 
instalments 
dueHighest  monthly 
repayment due 
1 11/11/2011 100 2 £120
2 10/08/2016 100 2  £124.80
3 18/02/2017 100 1  £120.40
4 19/06/2017 100 1 £126.64
5 26/08/2017 100 1 £122.32
5a 
(refinance) 21/09/2017 752  £217
6 18/11/2017 50 2  £63.20
6a 
(top up) 20/11/2017 502  £126.40
6b (top 
up) 21/11/2017 252 £158
QQ said it had implemented an affordability  assessment that was consistent with the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA)  Handbook. It also said that it didnt consent to Loan  1 
being considered as it was outside the complaint handling  time limits.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator said that he could consider Loan 1 and explained why. But he also went  on 
to say that he didnt  recommend that the complaint about any of the loans should  be upheld. 
QQ hasnt responded  to our adjudication so I will consider all of the loans in my decision.  
Ms M disagreed and responded to say that she was in great financial difficulty  and believed 
that the spiral  of payday loans was the source of this. Shed taken out multiple  payday  loans  
at the same  time. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms M 
and to QQ on 25 June  2019. I summarise  my findings:
I explained that when QQ first lent to Ms M the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading  and 
relevant guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 
Ref: DRN71615422onwards the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations 
and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC 
contained similar guidance  for lenders about responsible lending. 
I noted that QQ had said that its assessment of Loans 2 onwards was carried  out in line with 
the FCA Handbook. But with regard to QQs assessments  after 1 March 2015, I said that this 
service had addressed  this specific point by QQ in previous  decisions.  I reminded QQ of the 
FCA guidance on how complaints were  to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) 
by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which said that businesses  procedures for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So I said my decision would focus  on the specifics of Ms Ms complaint and what  both 
parties had said about  this.
I explained that QQ needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Ms M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and Ms Ms income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a 
lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a customer  had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing might  signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Id said that there might  even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
QQ was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN71615423Id said that the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defined sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Ms Ms complaint.
QQ had done  a number of checks before it lent to Ms M. It had asked her for details of her 
income. From Loan 2 it had also asked about  Ms Ms expenditure. Ms Ms declared income 
was £1,000 until Loan 2 when it had increased to £1,500. QQ had also checked Ms Ms 
employment and housing status.  From  the information QQ gathered, Ms M was employed 
and paid rent. 
QQ had also checked Ms Ms credit  file before agreeing to the loans. QQ hadnt provided us 
with the results of its credit checks. Ms M had provided her credit report  to us which covered 
the period from Loan 2 to Loan 6b. I could  see that Ms Ms credit report showed  she had 
taken out other short term loans. But I was also aware that when a lender carried out a credit 
check, the information it saw doesnt  usually provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit report would and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see 
a small portion of a borrowers credit  file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I 
was also aware that not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same  credit 
reference agencies.  So, this might explain any differences between the information provided  
by QQs credit check and Ms Ms actual situation.
The repayments that Ms M needed to make  on Loans 1 to 5 were relatively modest  
compared to the income that shed  declared to QQ and the highest repayment on each of 
those loans was for around the same  amount. 
Id noted that there was a gap of just over five years between Ms M repaying  Loan 1 and 
asking to borrow again. I thought it was reasonable for QQ to consider that gap in lending as 
an indication  that Ms M wasnt reliant  on its loans.
Id also noted  that there was a gap of around five months between Ms M repaying 
Loan 2 and asking to borrow  Loan  3. Loan 2 was the first loan in a new chain of lending. Id 
thought it was reasonable for QQ to have seen this gap as an indication  that Ms Ms 
finances had moved  on from whatever situation  had required her previous loan. 
Ms M appeared to have  faced some relatively minor problems repaying Loan 4 a day late. At 
that stage I didnt think QQ should  have been  unduly  worried  about Ms Ms late payment. 
So given Ms Ms repayment  amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for QQ to 
ask her for the amount  of information  that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  
Ref: DRN71615424And there wasnt anything  in the information  Ms M provided or the information  QQ shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  she was 
saying. So I didnt think QQ was wrong to give Loans 1 to 5 to Ms M.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of QQs lending history with Ms M, with a view to seeing  
if there was a point  at which  QQ should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ms case, I thought  that this point was reached by 
Loan 5a. I said this because:
Loan 5a was a refinance of Loan  5 and was taken out around one month  after Loan 5 
was provided. The refinance extended the repayment of Loan 5 by a further month  
but the final repayment amount  was significantly  higher than any of Ms Ms previous 
loan repayments.
From  Loan 5a onwards, Ms M wasnt making  any real inroads to the amount she 
owed QQ. Loan 5a was taken out around 13 months after Loan 2. Ms M had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to QQ over an extended period. 
The chain of lending  of around seven  months  since Loan 3 didnt  reflect the intended 
use of high-cost short-term credit.
Although there were  some limited gaps  from Loan 3 onwards between loans being 
repaid and a new loan being granted, including one of just under three  months before 
Loan 4, I didnt think it would have been reasonable for QQ to conclude these gaps 
were any indication  that Ms Ms finances had moved on from whatever situation had 
required her previous loans. 
I thought that Ms M had lost out because QQ had continued to provide borrowing  from 
Loan 5a onwards  because:
these  loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive  credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length  of time that Ms M had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Ms Ms ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so had 
kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
The fact that Loan 5a was repaid didnt mean it was repaid sustainably,  or without 
causing Ms M undue  difficulty. 
So overall I intended to uphold Ms Ms complaint about Loans 5a onwards and I said QQ 
should:
Refund any interest and charges applied to Loan  5a 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
All entries about Loans 5a onwards should  be removed from Ms Ms credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Ms M 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN71615425I noted that Ms M still owed QQ some of the principal balances she borrowed on Loans  6 
onwards. I said that QQ might use the compensation that is due to Ms M to reduce the total 
outstanding balance. But, to be clear, the outstanding balance  should be recalculated to 
remove any interest and charges, but taking account  of any repayments  Ms M had made on 
Loans 6, 6a and 6b as though they were  applied against the principal sums borrowed.
I also said that if having made that reduction  an outstanding balance  remained, QQ should 
endeavour to reach a mutually acceptable agreement with Ms M for its repayment.  In doing 
so QQ should remember  its responsibility  to treat Ms M positively and sympathetically in 
those discussions.
The CMC responded  to my provisional decision to say it was glad about the result.
QQ responded to my provisional  decision to say that it was attaching a copy of its entire 
lending process.  But this didnt appear to be attached to its email. QQ also said that there 
were substantial gaps  between the loans  and the loan amounts fluctuated. QQ also said that 
Ms M was to repay Loan 5a over two periods which would have allowed her to accrue  
sufficient money to repay the highest  repayment. QQ said that the loan repayments were 
affordable in ratio to her disposable income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QQ referred in its response  to its entire  lending process  being  attached.  Although this didnt 
appear to be attached,  this service has responded to QQs submission of this document  
(which isnt case specific) on many previous occasions and so Ill say no more about  it here.  
But I have taken its contents into account.
I note what QQ says about the gaps in lending. Id considered  this in my provisional decision 
and said that although there were some limited  gaps from Loan 3 onwards between  loans 
being repaid and a new loan being  granted, including one of just under three months  before 
Loan 4, I didnt think it would have been reasonable for QQ to conclude these gaps were any 
indication that Ms Ms finances had moved  on from whatever situation had required her 
previous loans. And there had been  an established pattern of borrowing prior to Loan 5a 
which ought to have concerned QQ irrespective of the length of pauses  in Ms Ms loan 
applications.
I acknowledge that the amounts Ms M borrowed fluctuated slightly from Loan  5a onwards. 
But in any event I think that Ms M was borrowing in a way that suggested a long term 
dependence on expensive short term credit. And although the amounts Ms M borrowed from 
Loan 5a varied, I still think QQ acted unfairly  by allowing her to take expensive  credit 
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
QQ also said that Loan 5a was affordable in relation to Ms Ms disposable income.  But QQ 
was required to establish whether Ms M could  sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And QQ will 
know from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our website) that there are cases  
where this service considers the overall lending pattern  and not just the affordability of each 
Ref: DRN71615426loan. When a consumer  borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time,  its most likely 
that the loans  arent being used  for their intended  purpose of temporary cash flow problems. 
As QQ knows,  the FCA made it clear in a recent  letter  to CEOs of high cost lending firms 
that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending patterns. 
And I thought that was the case here.
Overall, QQ hasnt  said anything that persuades me that the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision was unreasonable or incorrect. So Im upholding the complaint about 
Loans 5a onwards  and my final decision is the same  as I outlined in my provisional decision 
and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund any interest and charges applied to Loan  5a;
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.All entries about Loans 5a onwards should  be removed from Ms Ms credit  file.
Ms M still owes  QQ some  of the principal balances she borrowed on Loan 6 onwards. QQ
may use the compensation that is due to Ms M to reduce  the total outstanding balance. But,
to be clear, the outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove  any interest and
charges, but taking  account of any repayments Ms M has made on Loans  6, 6a and 6b as
though they were applied  against the principal sums borrowed.
If having made that reduction an outstanding balance remains QQ should  endeavour to
reach a mutually  acceptable agreement with Ms M for its repayment. In doing so QQ should
remember its responsibility to treat Ms M positively  and sympathetically in those discussions.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Ms M
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If QQ intends  to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7161542