K822xcomplaint
A complaint has been made  on behalf  of the late Mrs M (Mrs M) against  Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  (Clydesdale) in relation  to a claim she made under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background 
The estate  of the late Mrs M is represented  by a claims management company (CMC).
In 2014 Mrs M was sold and supplied a solar panel system by a company called My Planet 
Ltd (My Planet).  The cost of the system was £6,645 and My Planet arranged a loan with 
Clydesdale (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to pay for it.  Over a 60-month  term the 
total cost was set out as £8,489.40 with interest.
The CMC explained  that Mrs M was told by My Planet  that the energy savings and feed-in-
tariff (FIT) income she would receive would cover the cost of the loan.   
Mrs M complained that the solar panels had been  misrepresented by My Planet as they 
werent providing the financial  benefit she expected and so werent covering her loan 
repayments.  So, the CMC raised a complaint with Clydesdale on her behalf.
Section 75 of the CCA states a finance provider can be liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, and to the same extent  as the supplier of the goods or services 
Section 56 of the CCA sets out that a finance  provider is liable for what it says and what is 
said by the credit broker or supplier,  before  a consumer takes out the credit  agreement.    
Unfortunately, Mrs M passed  away before the complaint was resolved and it has been 
continued on behalf of her estate.  Clydesdale reviewed Mrs Ms complaint and upheld it on 
the basis My Planets  business practices had breached the consumer code, but it said there 
was no evidence of any misrepresentation.  
Clydesdale calculated what  financial benefit  would be provided by the solar  panel system 
over 10 years and explained it would be considerably more than the cost of the loan.  
Clydesdale also noted that Mrs Ms loan account  had an outstanding balance  of £460.16, 
and as a gesture of goodwill it waived the balance  and closed the loan account (so that no 
further payment  is due from Mrs Ms estate).
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and concluded Clydesdales response  was 
fair and having  reviewed  the calculation he agreed the system was self-funding.  
The CMC didnt agree.  It said the calculation wasnt fair as Mrs M had only benefited from 
the solar panel  system for five years, and so it wasnt  reasonable for Clydesdales  
calculation to be based upon 10 years  of benefit.
The investigator considered the CMCs comments but wasnt persuaded to change his mind.  
He explained  that an original finance  agreement had initially been  sold based on a 10-year 
term, and the system  would have been self-funding over that period.   He explained whilst it 
is sad Mrs M has passed away, thats not something that would have  been  known or 
assessed at the time of sale.
Ref: DRN72847892As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for much  the same  reasons.
Its not disputed  between the parties that Mrs M had been told the system would be self-
funding and essentially pay for itself.  I agree that to be the case, but what I must decide is 
over what  time period that would be, and whether Clydesdales calculation is based  upon 
reasonable assumptions.  
I understand the loan agreement Mrs M entered with Clydesdale  to pay for the system  was 
for a five-year term  and the energy savings and FIT payments produced  by the solar 
panels would not cover the cost of the loan over that timescale.  However, as identified  by 
the investigator who initially reviewed the complaint, My Planet had originally recommended 
and set a 10-year term for the loan to be repaid.   This  is also consistent with what I have 
seen in other cases where My Planet has sold solar panel systems.
I cant be certain why the loan term was ultimately reduced to five years,  but on balance Im 
satisfied the self-funding assumptions that were made at the time of sale would likely have 
been based upon the system being paid for over 10 years.   It may be that Mrs M requested 
the repayment term be reduced  to ensure the loan was repaid sooner, but Im persuaded its 
reasonable for Clydesdale  to use a 10-year  term to calculate whether the system was self-
funding.
Based upon the projected financial benefits  calculated over 10 years,  there would be 
sufficient benefit  to pay for the loan and have made  further savings.  So,  Im satisfied that 
over a 10-year period  Mrs M would have suffered no loss.
The CMC has said its unreasonable for Clydesdale to base its loss calculation  on the 
benefits over a 10-year  period, as Mrs M didnt actually  receive  that benefit.  Whilst I 
understand Mrs M sadly passed away and had only received around five years worth of 
benefit, that couldnt have  been  known at the time of sale.  I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to use the benefit of hindsight to determine how long Mrs M was expected  
to have received  savings  and FIT income  for.  The documentation shows  that the system 
would in fact have provided benefits for a number of years beyond  the loan term.
Overall, I consider Clydesdales response to the complaint to be fair and reasonable.  The 
calculation shows the system would be self-funding, and Clydesdale also offered to waive 
the outstanding loan balance, which it was not required to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint made on behalf  of the late Mrs M 
against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
Im satisfied the final response it provided  before the complaint was referred  to our Service  is 
fair and reasonable, and so Im not asking it to do anything more now.
Ref: DRN72847893Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
Mrs Ms estate  to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7284789