K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Chubb European  Group SE (Chubb) wouldnt pay his claim for stolen
cash under  a group travel  insurance policy.
In this decision my references to Chubb  include its agents.
background
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties  so I dont intend to repeat it 
here in detail.
In short  in 2015 Mr C travelled overseas on a research project, which  was due to take 
around two weeks. He had the benefit  of travel insurance through  a group policy,  taken 
out by a company Ill call M. Chubb is the insurer.
Towards the end of his trip abroad  Mr C had his bag stolen. The bag contained valuables  
including a laptop computer, a camera, iPad, and cash  he says both sterling and local 
currency. He reported the theft to the local police and to Ms insurance team and submitted 
a claim under the policy.
Chubb agreed to pay Mr C around £9,500  for items in the stolen bag, to include  about  
£430 for local currency. It wouldnt pay his claim for the sterling he said was also in the 
bag. It gave various reasons for this and the parties  have exchanged detailed  
correspondence both before and after Mr C referred his complaint to us.
Ultimately Chubb said it could have given Mr C its decision earlier and accepted a point 
hed made  about  the definition of personal  money.  It apologised and offered him £100  
compensation. But it wouldnt pay his claim for the sterling because it said hed not taken  
reasonable steps to avoid or minimise  any loss or damage, as required under the policy.
Mr C didnt agree and referred his complaint here.  Our investigator concluded that Chubb  
should pay Mr Cs claim.  Chubb didnt agree and remained  concerned  about  the lack of 
reasonable precautions and inconsistencies  in the evidence. So the complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman to decide.
The ombudsman issued  a provisional  decision in which  she provisionally decided  not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  She made four main findings:
1.Mr C was an eligible  complainant who was entitled to bring  a complaint to us under 
our rules.
2.Chubb hadnt shown  that Mr C had failed to take reasonable care of his bag, where it 
had already accepted and paid his claim  for the bags other  valuable  contents.
3.Chubb offered reasonable  compensation for its delay in dealing  with Mr Cs claim.
4.Chubb had fairly declined Mr Cs claim. She said this because of Chubbs reasonable 
concerns around the consistency of Mr Cs evidence, which  raised questions about  
whether hed taken  the cash with him on his research  trip.
Ref: DRN75505082That ombudsman left our service so Mr Cs complaint was passed  to me to review. Mr C 
made very detailed responses to the ombudsmans provisional findings.  And Im grateful 
to him for doing so because  I was able to consider his responses and those of Chubb, in
coming to my own provisional  findings. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2020. I said as follows:
Its unfortunate for the parties that there has been a change  of ombudsman. However 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I have reconsidered  the four findings my colleague came  to. I agree with 
the conclusions  reached in her findings  1-3. Ill explain why.
1.Mr C is eligible as the policy  was taken out for the benefit of certain students of whom 
Mr C was one. He is a person for whose benefit  the contract  of insurance was taken 
out with Chubb  [DISP  2.7.6 R (5)]. I say this because the policy is a group personal  
accident and travel policy. Mr C is named on the confirmation  and summary of cover.  
He met the policy definition of an insured person  and was travelling  on Ms business.
2.Im satisfied that Mr C took reasonable care of his bag and this unfortunate theft was 
out of his control.  He put the bag on the floor near his feet to take a call on his mobile 
phone (as he was holding an umbrella in his other hand). When the call finished  he 
realised his bag had been  stolen.
     For completeness  I dont find that taking this sum of money  with him in itself is 
unreasonable or demonstrates lack of reasonable care. I note that the policy  provides  
that the insured must take all reasonable steps to avoid or minimise any loss or 
damage. But whilst it might have been more prudent to transfer the money 
electronically or deposit it in a bank on his arrival  the fact that he didnt do so doesnt  
mean he didnt take reasonable  care. Chubb raises the argument that he could have 
paid the money in when he visited the bank at the start of his trip  on 2 December  
but Im satisfied  that he only used a cash machine  on that date. I accept that he didnt 
have the time to pay the money  in before the reported loss, because of his own 
research schedule  and the long bank  queues.
3.  I think  that Chubb has offered reasonable compensation  and an apology for its 
acknowledged delay  in dealing with Mr Cs claim. I dont think  further  compensation 
is due for this.
I have reached a different conclusion to my colleague with regard to paragraph  4. Many 
points have been raised by Chubb  regarding Mr Cs version of events.  Having considered 
the arguments Im provisionally satisfied that Mr C has demonstrated that he has a valid 
claim under the policy and that his claim for the stolen sterling should be settled.
Ref: DRN75505083I intend to focus  only on what I see as the most significant points. 
My reasons  are as follows:
Mr Cs explanations for taking sterling  abroad
Chubb  questioned whether the sterling was intended for research purposes. Im 
satisfied that it was and is therefore covered by the policy.  I accept Mr Cs account  
that with the sterling  hed intended to pay his expenses including camera,  laptop, 
flights and accommodation once hed paid it into his bank. I find his explanation that 
the camera and lap top had been  purchased by a family member and he needed to 
repay her persuasive. I accept that he would have had time to make an electronic  
transfer to the family member  as the items were purchased some months previously. 
But I dont  find the fact that he didnt  do so makes his explanation less credible.
Additionally Mr Cs evidence is that he was going  to use the sterling to pay research  
expenses - the research company  and research  assistant  he employed accept local 
currency, and Ive taken into account  the statements provided saying that hed asked 
them whether theyd  have  accepted sterling. I havent disregarded the declaration  to 
the HM Revenue  that the sterling was for personal use and that he was the intended  
recipient of the cash but overall I accept the cash was for research purposes, which 
include payment of the trip and creditors. I note too that Mr C didnt mention paying 
the research company and assistant in a 2016  exchange with his solicitor. I dont find 
that this means  his evidence on this point is untruthful.
Chubb  suggests  that as Mr C planned his trip abroad over a month ahead he 
therefore had time to transfer  the money electronically. But I accept that his 
application to travel abroad was only the start of a process of arrangements which  
werent actually  finalised  until shortly before his departure.
Inconsistent statements about declaring the sterling
Chubb  was concerned about  inconsistency  in the evidence Mr C gave in this regard.  It 
relies on the statement where  Mr C says he was not aware that he had to declare the 
£11,000 to Law Enforcement on leaving the UK. Mr C has provided a very detailed  
submission about the discrepancies  he says are in the hand-written witness statement 
Chubb seeks to rely on together  with his concerns about the interview process, the 
investigator and Chubbs failure to follow  up in writing. I note that Mr C signed the statement 
on each page, so I dont  find it was unreasonable for Chubb  to seek to rely on the witness 
statement. But Mr C says the statement is factually inaccurate and that he would have  said 
he was not unaware. He gives examples of when he has used double negatives  in 
correspondence. Im persuaded that Mr C intended the statement to read that he was not 
unaware that he had to declare  the £11,000  to law enforcement  on leaving the UK.
Chubb  says that Mr Cs submissions  dont clarify  what his understanding  was with 
regard to declaring the sterling. But I take into account that Mr C was asked many 
questions, spread out over a long period of time. Although it appears that it written  
English is faultless,  I do accept that the questions  he was asked and statements he 
was asked to sign were not in his mother tongue. I accept too there  may be cultural 
differences at play here and he may not have  volunteered everything Chubb  wanted 
to know in answer to the numerous  questions asked.  For example he says he didnt 
mention declaring  the cash  in his country of destination until 2017 because he wasnt 
asked about it.
Ref: DRN75505084Having considered  all the representations  about  declaring the sterling  Im not 
persuaded that Chubbs concerns  are sufficient to undermine  Mr Cs credibility to the 
extent that it can rely on them  to defeat his claim.
I must decide what is, in my opinion fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr C has shown he withdrew  the sterling from his UK bank. He 
completed a customs  form on arrival  at his destination. As indicated  I note Chubbs 
concerns about  the various reasons given for taking the sterling  abroad. But for the 
reasons given above Mr Cs evidence doesnt  cause me to doubt that he had the sterling 
with him and it was stolen. He reported  the matter to the police  and the police report  is 
consistent with his account.
Looking at all the evidence holistically Im satisfied that Mr C made a genuine claim for 
his stolen bag and that the bag contained, amongst the other items, the sterling  in 
question. It would not be fair and reasonable to hold Mr C to a higher  standard of proof 
than the civil standard.  I have some sympathy with his feeling that a higher standard 
has been applied  during  the course  of his claim. It follows that it is my provisional 
decision that the policy should  respond  to his claim  for the stolen sterling.
Subject to any submissions from the parties and taking into account the payment made
For local currency already  I understand the amount payable in respect  of the stolen 
Sterling is £7,823.
My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold the complaint  and was minded to 
require Chubb  to:
1. Settle Mr Cs claim for the stolen sterling in the sum of £7,823.
2. Add 8% simple interest to this sum from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
3. Pay Mr C £100 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision. 
Chubb didnt agree with my findings.  It restated its view that Mr Cs explanations and 
evidence were unconvincing  and said that he had routinely changed facts and presented 
other facts when challenged on details. It said that it was reasonable for an insurer  to expect 
an explanation  and evidence for a decision to carry such  a large amount of cash - £11,000. It 
concluded that either the basic facts were  not as stated by Mr C or he was exceptionally and 
unreasonably negligent in carrying around such a significant amount of cash  and is 
attempting to justify  his actions.
Additionally it made the following points, which I have summarised.
Mr C did not declare the cash he was carrying to UK customs  when leaving the UK, 
which casts doubt  on his version  of events and calls into question whether he was 
carrying the cash.
The reasons given by Mr C for not transmitting  the money electronically to a bank 
instead of carrying  it on his person are not convincing. There is nothing  to suggest that 
Mr C was forced  to carry cash.  
Mr Cs explanations  of his personal research expenses are unconvincing. He didnt 
mention that he was using the cash to pay research expenses.
Ref: DRN75505085There is no explanation as to why Mr C had the money on him, which was intended to 
fund his trip, 12 days after his arrival.
Even if it accepted that Mr C was carrying the cash it would point to significant  
negligence on his part.
There is an inconsistency on the claim form. Mr C claimed  £9,000 not £11,000 although  
he stated that £11,000  was the amount stolen.
It is untenable to argue that Mr Cs spoken  English is anything other than faultless.
Chubb required sight of some documentation it had not seen. It agreed  that the customs 
form supported that Mr C had taken  the cash into his destination. However  it felt that this 
was further evidence that Mr C had tried to obscure the facts  and withhold evidence. With 
regard to the letter from the research  company, it felt that this was further evidence that 
Mr C did not need  to take cash into the country  as the research company provided bank 
details so the payment could have been deposited before departure.
Mr C accepted my provisional  decision.  We asked why he had claimed only £9,000 on the 
claim form when  £11,000  had been recorded as stolen. He explained  that this was a 
mistake when he was burning  the mid-night oil  but was corrected in his statement to 
Chubb of 27 September 2018.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Chubb has made its position clear   it strongly disagrees that Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld. But having reconsidered the evidence  Im not persuaded to reach a different 
conclusion to that set out in my provisional findings.  Ill explain why.
I agree  that it is wholly reasonable  for an insurer to expect an explanation and evidence  to 
explain a decision to carry such a large  amount of cash. But explanations and evidence  have  
been forthcoming here. I accept that Chubb remains unsatisfied by them but it is for me to 
determine this complaint  based on what, in my opinion is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
The submissions now made by Chubb  dont  cause me to change my conclusion regarding  
the explanations Mr C has given for taking the cash  abroad.  I find his evidence is credible 
and any inconsistencies  over time dont lead me to conclude that he has deliberately 
attempted to obscure what  happened. 
Although I cant be certain that Mr C did declare  the cash to UK customs on leaving the 
country, he did declare  it on his arrival  in his destination. Im satisfied that Mr C had the cash 
on arrival  in his country of destination.  Im not persuaded that inconsistencies  in the 
accounts about declaring the cash on leaving the UK are evidence that Mr C didnt  have it 
with him  when it is evidenced that he did have it on arrival.
I made  a provisional finding regarding the explanations given for the research expenses,  I 
found Mr Cs evidence  credible. Chubb  has now seen  evidence from the research company 
and notes that it provides bank details so argues  that this is further evidence that Mr C didnt 
need to have cash with him. However,  Im satisfied that he did have the cash  with him as 
noted above. And he intended to use the cash to pay the research company.
Ref: DRN75505086Chubb also raises  the question  as to why Mr C still had the cash  on the date he did (12 days  
into his trip). I made a provisional finding  on this point. I said that I accepted that Mr C didnt 
have the time to pay the money in before the reported loss, because of his own research 
schedule (which he has said was very tight) and the long bank queues.  Chubbs  response 
hasnt caused  me to revise my findings on these points. 
The question then is whether Mr C took reasonable care with regards to the cash. Chubb 
says that if the facts  are as stated by Mr C, he was exceptionally and unreasonably negligent 
in carrying around  such a significant  amount of cash. Chubb  has agreed that Mr C took 
reasonable care of his bag and that the unfortunate  theft was out of his control, but says that 
his actions do not represent reasonable care of the cash.
But it hasnt  persuaded me that my provisional  conclusion should be revised.  I said that 
whilst it might have been  more prudent to transfer  the money electronically or deposit  it in a 
bank on his arrival the fact that he didnt  do so doesnt mean he didnt  take reasonable care. 
I accept too that the cash could have been  deposited before Mr C left the UK, but again the 
fact that it wasnt doesnt lead me to conclude  that Mr C didnt take reasonable care.
Chubb makes the point  that Mr C wasnt forced  to carry cash  and didnt  need  to for the 
expenses he says he was going  to use the cash for. I agree that all expenses could have 
been paid in ways other  than by cash,  but I dont  find that carrying  the cash in itself equates 
to a lack of reasonable care. Im satisfied  that Mr C was carrying  the cash and it was stolen. 
It would be reasonable to take greater care of a bag containing a large amount of cash than 
of a bag without cash or with only a limited amount. But I dont find that Chubb has shown 
that Mr C acted recklessly  that is he recognised  a risk but took it anyway. By keeping the 
bag with him and putting it down momentarily doesnt show that Mr C acted recklessly  or 
breached the requirement to take reasonable care of his belongings. 
Likewise I accept Mr Cs explanation for the inconsistency on the claim form. I dont find that 
fact that he wrote he was claiming £9,000 when he had said £11,000 was stolen was 
anything more than an error. 
Finally I said in my provisional  decision that it appeared that Mr Cs English was faultless. I 
didnt say that he didnt understand the statements he was asked. I made the point only that 
he was asked many questions over a long period of time and the questions  he was asked and 
statements he was required to sign were  not in his mother tongue. This is fact and I thought it 
worth restating because  I felt that there may be cultural issues  at play in that when asked 
questions Mr C answered what he was asked rather than volunteering further explanation. 
But I wasnt suggesting that there  was any error  on Chubbs part or that a translation service 
was necessary. I made the point to give context but I note Chubbs submission that any 
discrepancies in language  would not account for the different versions of events provided. 
However for the reasons  given in my provisional decision and above I dont find that any 
differences are sufficient  to undermine Mr Cs evidence entirely or show  either that the theft 
didnt happen  or that Mr C failed to take reasonable care.
I recognise Chubbs strength of feeling in this case but as I said in my provisional decision it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to hold Mr C to a higher standard  of proof than the civil standard.  
And applying  that standard  Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that that the disputed cash 
was in the bag when  it was stolen along with Mr Cs other belongings. Chubb hasnt demonstrated 
that Mr C failed to take reasonable  care and so for the reasons given here and in my provisional 
decision my final decision is that the policy should  respond to Mr Cs claim for the stolen sterling.
Ref: DRN75505087my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Chubb European Group SE to:
1. Settle Mr Cs claim for the stolen sterling in the sum of £7,823.
2. Add 8% simple interest to this sum from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
3. Pay Mr C £100 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7550508