K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank  Plc hasnt paid her interest on her account.
background
Mrs M says that she opened her TSB account  in 2014 but only recently realised shes not 
been paid any interest.  She says she would like the interest she was due, paid to her.
TSB says Mrs M didnt  meet the account  conditions in order to receive interest.  It says 
Mrs M didnt  use online  banking in the correct way and didnt read the correspondence  it 
sent her and so it changed her preferences to paper  correspondence.  It also says it e-mailed 
Mrs M and told her she needed to use online banking.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think TSB had made a mistake  
or acted  unfairly.  The adjudicator thought Mrs M hadnt kept to the account conditions  and so 
wasnt entitled to interest.  He thought  TSB had taken reasonable steps  to inform Mrs M 
about the problem and thought it was up to Mrs M to monitor and manage her account.
Mrs M accepts she received some  e-mail  communication from TSB but is unsure about its 
content. She says she didnt receive  any correspondence from TSB by post and it didnt 
advise her about the interest conditions when  the account was opened.  Mrs M says TSB 
should have written to her about  this problem.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that TSB has acted fairly and reasonably and hasnt made a mistake. I realise  Mrs M 
will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which I think  Mrs M would have agreed to 
when the account was opened, about  the payment of interest. Im satisfied those conditions 
say that all correspondence must be paperless.  And that correspondence preferences  will 
automatically change  from paperless if online banking isnt used regularly.  Im satisfied 
Mrs M didnt  use online  banking regularly  and didnt look at the messages TSB sent her 
about her account.  I also think that having looked at TSBs records, it sent messages and e-
mails to Mrs M about the account and told her that she didnt review those messages her 
account settings  would  change.
So I think TSB correctly changed  Mrs Ms account preferences from paperless  and in line 
with the terms and conditions which meant she was no longer entitled to any interest. I dont 
think it matters  if TSB sent her any letters about  the problem by post as I think  by that stage 
the account preferences had been  changed.  And it was up to Mrs M to monitor and manage  
her account  and read the messages TSB had sent her.
I appreciate Mrs M says this wasnt explained to her when the account  was opened. But for 
the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied  Mrs M agreed to the account  conditions and so I 
cant fairly order TSB to pay the interest  since it was stopped.  
Ref: DRN72471322my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7247132