K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs M say Santander  UK Plc, (trading as: Abbey National), mis-sold them  
the MPPI.  
background
Mr and Mrs M took out the MPPI  in a meeting at the same  time as remortgaging  their home. 
The policy was in their joint names.  The premiums were about £45 a month. And the total 
monthly benefit payable, of about £750, was split equally between them. Following a 
successful claim  these  payment would  have been made for up to 12 months. The policy 
covered Mr and Mrs M against  accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the MPPI  and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
application. This has no mention of MPPI in it at all. And knowing what  I do about  the 
usual branch sales process used by Santander, (trading as Abbey  National), at the time, 
I think it was more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs M had to complete and sign a separate  
application form for the MPPI. Because the sale was a long time ago, I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs M dont remember this.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check that the MPPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. I say this because:
oMr and Mrs M were  eligible for the MPPI;
oMr and Mrs M werent  caught by any of the main restrictions  and limitations of the 
policy - such as those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
 
oMr and Mrs M were  entitled to sick pay from their employers equivalent to about 9 
months salary, and Mrs M also to a redundancy package.  But following a successful 
claim the policy would have paid out in addition, leaving their other means available 
to help meet Mr and Mrs Ms other  expenditures if one or other, or both of them  
hadnt been working. So I think that the MPPI could have been of use to them;
Ref: DRN73188242oThe MPPI was competitively priced  by reference to other similar polices available in 
the market at the time.  And I havent  seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs M 
couldnt afford it. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, had they later felt that it 
was unaffordable or that they no longer  wanted  it, they could have cancelled  the 
policy at any time;
oMr and Mrs M were  both employed.  And by reference to their respective salaries I 
dont find that it was unreasonable to split the policy benefit equally between  them;
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put them off taking out the cover. I say this particularly bearing in mind 
the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs M been unable to 
make their monthly mortgage repayments.
This means Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs M.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the MPPI  premium  - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7318824