K820x#14complaint
Mr M voluntarily terminated a hire purchase  agreement with FCE Bank Plc (trading as 
Ford Credit) and he has complained about  what hes been  asked  to pay.
 
background
Mr M acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement  with FCE Bank in October 2015. His 
payments commenced  around a month after entering into the agreement.  
In May 2018  Mr M decided to voluntarily terminate his agreement. Hed paid over 50% of the 
total amount payable  towards his agreement, and he didnt think  hed have to pay any more. 
However, FCE Bank said that Mr M was liable to pay £177  for the extra days use of the car 
since his last monthly instalment. This worked out at £11.80 for 15 days  6 May 2018 to 
21 May 2018. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this so brought the complaint to our service.  He said that the 
additional daily charge hadnt  been brought to his attention so he shouldnt have to pay it. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said that Mr M made his 
payments in arrears  so it wasnt  unreasonable of FCE Bank  to apply  the daily charge to 
cover the usage  of the car until the agreement was terminated. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said that the agreement  didnt make it clear  that hed have to pay any 
more than the 50% hed paid when he voluntarily terminated the agreement.  He says that his 
payments were up-to-date and the agreement makes no reference to a daily charge.  
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated  hire purchase agreement.  This service is able to 
consider complaints about these sorts of agreements.  Section  99 of the 
1974 Consumer  Credit Act says:
(1)At any time before  the final payment  by the debtor  under  a regulated  hire-
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2)Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability  
under the agreement  which has accrued before the termination.
Section 100 of the 1974 Consumer Credit Act says:
(1)Where a regulated  hire-purchase or regulated conditional  sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable,  unless the agreement  
provides for a smaller  payment, or does not provide for any payment,  to pay to 
the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half  of the total price exceeds  the 
Ref: DRN78612022aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination.
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement also says: 
You have a right to end this agreement.  To do so, you should write to the person  you make 
your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods  and to half the total 
amount payable under this agreement, that is £10,780.00 (ten thousand seven hundred and 
eighty pounds and zero pence). If you have already paid at least this amount plus any 
overdue instalments,  and have taken reasonable care of the goods,  you will not have to pay 
any more.
This means  that Mr M can voluntarily terminate his agreement at any time, before the final 
payment. He would  not need  to pay more than 50% of the total amount payment towards the 
agreement, provided  hed taken reasonable care of the car. But it also says that any liability  
accrued prior to the termination wouldnt be affected. 
Mr M paid his agreement in arrears. So his first payment was due on 6 November 2015, 
which was around  a month after he entered into it.  
Mr M voluntarily terminated his agreement on 21 May 2018. And his last payment had been 
made on 6 May 2018. So he would have been due to pay for Mays use of the car in his 
June 2018 payment. But his June payment wasnt paid because the agreement had been 
terminated. 
As a starting point,  I think its fair that Mr M pays for his use of the car. So I dont think  its 
unreasonable for FCE Bank to charge  Mr M for the 15 days use of the car he had after his 
payment in May 2018. And I think the amount FCE Bank is charging seems reasonable as it 
seems about right for the daily charge when compared to the regular monthly  rentals. 
Therefore, I dont think it would be fair for me to require FCE Bank  to remove or reduce  the 
charge either. 
I also think the agreement  sets out what Mr M would need to pay. His first payment was due 
a month  after he took out the agreement. So I think its fair to say that it was made clear that 
the agreement  would  be paid in arrears.  Section 99 of the 1974 Consumer Credit Act says 
that terminating the agreement doesnt  affect any liability that accrued before the 
termination. I think the liability increases daily. And therefore, its not unreasonable for 
FCE Bank to apply a daily charge to Mr M. 
For the reasons  given  above, Im not going to direct FCE Bank to reduce or remove the 
charge. 
Ref: DRN78612023my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861202