K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused his application  to port his mortgage 
product to a new mortgage. As a result he incurred an early  repayment charge (ERC) of 
£8,928.43 when he sold his property. 
He also complains that Santanders  investigation was completed  by the same person who 
dealt with the initial application  and that after the refusal of the mortgage it continued to ask 
for information to support the application.
To resolve  his complaint  Mr C wants Santander  to refund the ERC  and the loss of income of 
£5 per month from his Santander  123 bank account.
background
Normally when people take mortgages  they intend  to live in the house. These are called 
residential mortgages. If somebody  wants a mortgage to buy a house which they intend to 
let or otherwise dont intend to occupy, they have  to apply instead for a buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage. BTL mortgages  generally have higher interest rates  than residential mortgages.
Mr C is a member  of the armed forces. Ill call this MAF. MAFs  typically  want to buy a 
house like anybody else, but because of overseas deployments they cant always occupy 
the house for the time being.  And during a lengthy deployment  they may wish to let the 
house. Lenders have policies  to cover this. Santanders policy is that a residential mortgage 
application can be approved even though the MAF wont be living  in the property 
immediately, subject  to:
 the property being the MAFs sole UK property; and
 it will be the MAFs future main residence;  and
 affordability has to be calculated without any dependency on the rental income; and
 the conditions for letting  conform to the buy to let policy.
In 2014 Mr C bought a property, property 1, with a residential mortgage  loan from 
Santander. The loan came with a five-year fixed interest rate product carrying an ERC which  
would expire on 2 April 2019. On 11 November  2016 Santander wrote to Mr C giving him 
consent to let (CTL) property 1 until 2039.
In 2018 Mr C wished  to sell property 1 and buy property 2. He therefore applied  to 
Santander to port the interest rate product  to a new mortgage for property 2. Mr C says that 
after being  accepted financially, he was refused as he had rented out property 1 whilst on 
deployment with the armed forces.  But hed received permission from Santander to rent out 
property 1.
Mr C then sold property 1. For the purchase of property 2 he used another lender, incurring 
a substantial ERC. He asks if Santander  was penalising him for being a MAF.
On Mr Cs complaint to Santander it said the application had been declined  because 
property 1 was let until it was sold and Mr C had another  let property. Santander  said the 
application was declined on the basis that Mr C had another property which  was let (property 
3) and he wasnt currently  in the country  to reside  in property 2. This was its lending policy 
for MAFs.
Ref: DRN79978472Mr C wasnt happy and brought his complaint to our service. Santander said its forces  policy 
was that the customer  was allowed  to rent out the property while serving  overseas but this 
policy only applied when the customer only owned  one property. Mr C owned more than one 
property so the policy couldnt be applied.  
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold  it. She said Mr C had another  
buy-to-let property, property 3, so wasnt eligible for the residential mortgage. She didnt 
believe Santander had applied its policy unfairly.  Mr C remained unhappy, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to reach a final decision. He said he was unable to refuse a 
deployment or extension  to a deployment.
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
A residential mortgage requires the borrower to reside in the property and prohibits letting 
without the lenders prior consent. If the property is to be let, a buy-to-let mortgage is 
required, which generally has higher interest  rates. 
However Santander has a concession for MAFs which  allows a residential mortgage  to be 
taken even where the MAF is serving  abroad and therefore unable  to live in the property. 
This is provided the property will in the future be the MAFs main residence and that he or 
she doesnt have  another  property in the UK.
Santanders policy is to give MAFs residential rates  if the property  is their only property and 
they are posted  away from their property for a time but intend to use it as their main  
residence in the future. Mr Cs problem was that at the time of his application he had two 
properties in the UK, property 1 and property 3. Property 3 was a longstanding buy-to-let.  
Mr C was applying for a new mortgage to buy property  2 and to port the property 1 product 
to that mortgage.  But he already owned property  3. That meant  he couldnt have a 
residential mortgage for property 2 unless he was actually  going to live there. However he 
was still serving abroad. 
In November 2019 the investigator asked both parties when Santander had been made  
aware of property 3. Mr C said that he told Santander about property 3 when  he applied for 
the property 1 mortgage in 2014. Santander  said: It would appear that we were  made  aware 
of the buy to let property  on 27 June 2018   This is the date the mortgage interview took 
place. 
So I asked  Santander  to supply a copy of the property 1 mortgage application Mr C made in 
2014. This contains on pages 8-9 the following questions and Mr Cs answers:
Question Answer
Do you own a property  now? Yes
Do you have a mortgage on your current  property? Yes
Is it a Santander  mortgage? No
Name of lender H bank
Ref: DRN79978473Are you redeeming your current mortgage? No
It follows from these answers that Mr C told Santander that he owned a property in mortgage 
to H bank and that he was not selling it.
So despite  the terms of its MAF  policy, which  didnt permit two properties,  Santander  granted  
the 2014 application for a residential mortgage knowing that Mr C already owned  another 
property which he wasnt selling. And furthermore, in 2016  Santander  wrote  to Mr C giving 
him consent to let (CTL) property 1 until 2039, despite knowing about  property  3.
In these circumstances I can see why Santander  refused  Mr Cs 2018 application. He didnt 
meet its lending policy. However, that was also the case when Santander granted  the 
mortgage in 2014. 
The situation  which Mr C desired to achieve  by selling property 1 and buying property 2 was 
precisely the same as the position which had existed, to Santanders knowledge,  since 2014. 
Mr Cs circumstances were the same, and the MAF  policy had been in force  since 
2003/2004. 
I think it would be difficult to conclude  that Mr C wouldnt or couldnt have looked to another  
lender for his mortgage in 2014 (and got a portable  mortgage), had Santander  turned down 
his application  then on the basis that he didnt meet its lending policy.  He appears to have 
had no trouble getting a new mortgage in 2018  despite the continuing  mortgage  on property 
3. 
In the circumstances, I consider the application  of the ERC was unfair and that Santander  
should refund the ERC with interest.  I also consider that it should pay Mr C £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to him by its handling of his application 
despite its previous  consent to let and knowledge of property 3.
I dont think anything follows  from Santanders lending  decision being reviewed by the 
person whod made it. The question for me is whether the decision was fair.
The significance of the Santander 123 account is that Mr C says the customer can get 1% 
cashback up to £10 per month but theres  a fee of £5 per month.  So theres £5 per month  
profit. But these benefits arent guaranteed and can be changed at any time, and Mr C 
wouldnt have been entitled to any cash benefit from having his mortgage with Santander 
had Santander  applied its lending criteria correctly in 2014.  So I make  no award in this 
respect. 
Ref: DRN79978474the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Mr C said he wasnt aware of any further 
information which could  be supplied. Santander  said it agreed to refund  the ERC  minus  any 
saving Mr C had made  by taking the new mortgage with the new lender.
It said Mr C had a fixed rate mortgage  with Santander on a rate of 3.14% which  he fully 
redeemed on 3 August  2018 paying the ERC.  He then borrowed £299,750 over 25 years at 
1.69% until 30 November 2021.  He therefore achieved a better  rate with the new lender. 
Had he ported with Santander  he would  have been tied in until 3 April 2019. 
Santander also agreed to pay 8% interest  on the reduced amount and £250.00 
compensation.
Mr C then agreed to the reduction proposed by Santander on account  of the saving, but 
asked that the reduction be itself reduced  by £999  being the product fee hed paid to the 
new lender. Santander agreed  to this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  having  agreed to the terms set out below I now make  my final decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Santander  UK Plc to refund the ERC of 
£8,928.43. It may deduct from this figure the saving made by Mr C from 3 August 2018  to 
3 April 2019 as a result of the lower rate, but should in that case also add £999 for the 
product fee charged by the new lender.
Santander should add to the resulting figure  simple  annual  interest  of 8% from 
3 August 2018  to the date of settlement. It should  also pay Mr C £250 compensation.
If Santander considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997847