K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let him 
reject his car.
background
In March 2016 Mr A purchased new car costing some £47,325 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement with VFS. He encountered problems with the multi media interface (MMI) and it 
was replaced, however  it still caused problems and he was unable to connect  his phone. I 
gather he uses his car for his work  and needs  to be contactable. 
The investigator has set out the events in some  detail  in his view which  I wont  repeat here.  
In short  the car was taken back on multiple occasions and no fix has been found.  Various  
software systems have  been tried on the phone and to no avail.  He has said that his phone 
worked in the various courtesy cars he was given  and this demonstrates that the fault is with 
the car. He also says that he asked to reject the car numerous times. 
VFS has suggested the problem lies with the phone and Mr A should  change it to one which 
is compatible with the car. I understand that there  is no obvious  fix that the dealer can apply 
to rectify the problem.  However, it has offered a goodwill payment of £1,631.08 which is two 
monthly payments  and I gather  the dealer also offered to double  this sum. 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. He noted the numerous times the car was 
taken back for various upgrades and replacement  cables and the fact the MMI system  had 
been replaced. However, the car still didnt function  as it should. 
He was satisfied  that it was more likely  than not that the goods  which  VFS had supplied  
were not of satisfactory  quality. He noted  the job cards demonstrated a pattern of the MMI 
component failing within a month and the fault still persisted after it was replaced.  He had no 
evidence to suggest misuse and so he concluded the cars MMI system  wasnt reasonably 
durable. He suggested VFS should accept  rejection  of the car and refund 10% of the 
monthly repayments from May 2016  and Mr As deposit. He also recommended it pay him 
the £1,631.08 it had previously offered.
VFS didnt  agree and suggested Mr A reject his phone. It said the manufacturer relied  on the 
phone manufacturer  which often released  new software. It added that the offer of £1,631.08  
was in full and final settlement and this sum was excessive. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN70475132VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I am satisfied that the evidence shows that Mr A has had unending  problems  with the MMI 
system and has had to take the car back multiple  times, I think  he has paid somewhere in 
the region of 15 trips to the dealer and has been  without  his car while repairs  have been 
carried out. That said I gather he has been  provided with a courtesy  car as and when 
required.
I am satisfied from the dealerships records that his phone has worked on other similar 
models and this is backed up by Mr A who has said it always  worked on the courtesy cars. 
As such I believe  there was a recurring fault with his car for which  neither the dealer, nor the 
manufacturer has been able to offer a solution.
I am satisfied that the use of the MMI and being able to be in contact is a key part of Mr As 
work and I see that he does a high mileage. As such  I dont see this as a minor issue. Nor do 
I see it as a comfort issue. It has an impact on his working life and I believe he sought 
assurances that he would be able to make full use of his phone  in the car when he bought it. 
As for redress I suspect  that Mr A is in a position  to voluntarily  terminate  the agreement  and 
in effect walk away from it. I also note that at one point Mr A was offered a total of some 
£3,300 compensation from VFS and the dealership. I have considered  suggesting he be 
paid that now,  but I have  concluded the solution  put forward by the investigator is better, 
subject to one change.  I dont think VFS should  pay Mr A additional compensation of 
£1,631.08 for the trouble  and upset he had suffered. I think  a smaller sum is more 
appropriate. 
I put this to both parties. Mr A was broadly  agreeable  and VFS maintained that it didnt think  
rejection was acceptable. It said a new software  update was available  and so were previous 
ones, but these apparently werent made available to Mr A. I can see no reason why this 
information should cause me to change my view. If a potential solution  was available  to Mr A 
then it should  be have been provided.
Ref: DRN70475133my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr A.
Remove the agreement from his credit file.
Refund 10% of the monthly repayments from March 2016  with an 8% simple interest 
added from the date of payment to the date they are repaid.
Refund the deposit Mr A paid, but not that used to clear  any negative  equity he had 
on the previous  car.
Pay compensation of £250 to reflect the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7047513