K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Paysafe Financial  Services Limited (trading as Neteller)  unfairly 
excluded transactions  he made from a promotional cashback offer.
background 
Mr C entered a reward scheme  that said if he made transactions above a certain level hed 
earn cashback. The terms of this promotion  set out certain exclusions and confirmed the 
cashback would be paid by 17 January 2017.
Mr C made  lots transactions to gambling websites during the promotional  period. Paysafe 
went on to amend the promotion terms to exclude certain gambling websites, including some  
Mr C had used.
After the promotional period, Paysafe said Mr Cs transactions  werent eligible to receive the 
cashback bonus. Paysafe said it thought Mr Cs transactions had no commercial  purpose 
and didnt meet the terms of the offer. 
Paysafe says Mr Cs transactions were flagged as suspicious by the gambling websites 
operator. It also said Mr Cs payments were broadly the same as his withdrawals from those 
gambling accounts so it took the step of removing him from the promotion.
Mr C complained that this was unfair.  He felt hed been encouraged to increase his spending 
and had met the promotions  terms. He provided  evidence that he had been making bets on 
those gambling  sites and hadnt  just been  transferring  funds in and out.
Mr C referred  his concerns to this service and an investigator looked  at what  had happened.  
She didnt  feel Paysafe  had shown it was fair to remove  Mr C from the promotion and 
recommended it reinstate  him, paying him what wouldve been awarded had he not been 
excluded. She also asked Paysafe to pay interest on the award. 
Paysafe didnt agree and maintained the transactions had no commercial purpose.  As a 
result, the complaints  been passed  to me to make a decision.  
There has been a delay in allocating Mr Cs complaint to an ombudsman. On 21 March  2019 
the investigator contacted both parties and asked them to submit any further  evidence  or 
comments they wanted to make. Neither side responded  so Im proceeding to issue my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate Paysafe has concerns  that Mr Cs transactions had no commercial  purpose but 
Im not satisfied its shown  why they should  reasonably be excluded from the promotion. I 
can see Mr C appears to have increased  the amount he was using his account  and was 
receiving similar amounts  back from the betting sites he used. However, the fact Mr C 
increased his transaction levels seems reasonable given the nature of the promotion  the 
more he used his account the more hed receive back. I dont think its fair to say increased 
use of his account meant he was acting outside the terms of the promotion.
Ref: DRN76397082The transactions in dispute  here were  to a few gambling websites and Mr C has provided 
evidence of his betting activity on those  accounts.  I understand  that Paysafe says that 
betting activity  amounted  to bonus abuse but its not supplied reasonable supporting 
evidence to show that. 
I can see weve got information from a gambling websites operator that says customers had 
used their accounts to transfer funds from Paysafe without carrying  out any bets. But the 
information provided is a list of names, personal details and deposit amounts without 
providing any additional context. I havent  been persuaded that this information is evidence  
that Mr Cs betting activity wasnt in line with the promotions  terms. 
The evidence from Mr C shows he was actively betting with the funds he transferred to the 
gambling websites  via Paysafe. I appreciate the email from the gambling websites operator 
says there  was little or no gambling carried out during the promotion period but thats not 
what Ive seen. Neither Paysafe or the gambling  websites  operator have said exactly  why 
they felt the bets Mr C made amounted to bonus abuse. As a result,  Ive based my decision 
on the evidence  I have available which shows Mr C bet extensively  during the promotion  
period. 
Paysafe says section  6a of its promotion  terms says eligible transactions can be disregarded 
if they have no commercial purpose. But I note section 3d of the same terms says that to 
participate in the promotion account holders must not use their account for commercial 
purposes. I think theres a lack of clarity here that makes Paysafes decision to exclude 
certain transactions difficult  to understand.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Paysafe fairly excluded  Mr C from the promotion so it 
should now reinstate  him and put him back in the position he wouldve been  in before it took 
that step. 
I recently asked the investigator to get in touch with both Mr C and Paysafe to check whether 
they wanted to say anything else or provide any further evidence  but neither party 
responded. I wanted to ensure both sides had been given the chance to explain  their 
positions before I issued  my decision.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Paysafe  fairly excluded Mr Cs transactions  from the 
promotion. Paysafe  should put Mr C back in the position he wouldve been  in had it not 
excluded his transactions from the promotion. It should also pay interest  on the amount  he 
shouldve received as hes been  deprived of these  funds.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Paysafe Financial Services Limited  
to settle as follows:
Reinstate Mr C to the promotion;
Include all transactions carried out via participating sites during  the promotional  
period;
Pay Mr C any cashback due under the promotion; and
Ref: DRN76397083Pay interest on the above sum calculated at 8% simple interest a year from 
17 January 2017 (the original date the promotion bonus was to be paid)  to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639708