K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a loan from NewDay Limited,  trading as Aqua, wasnt  affordable  for him 
and that it shouldnt have been made  to him. He also complains that the credit limit 
increases on his credit card account with Aqua werent affordable for him and that it 
shouldve made  more checks. 
background
Mr H had a credit card account with Aqua with a credit limit of £250.  He was offered 
increases in his credit  limit to £500  in May 2017  and £1,000 in October 2017. He then asked  
Aqua to increase his credit  limit to £2,000 in June 2018, but it only agreed to increase his 
limit to £1,600. He applied to Aqua for a loan of £2,500  in July 2018 and he entered  into a 
fixed sum loan agreement. 
He complained to Aqua  in September 2018  that it had lent to him irresponsibly. It said that it 
remained confident  that it had lent to him responsibly, so it was unable  to refund any fees or 
remove any adverse information  from his credit  file. Mr H wasnt satisfied  with its response, 
so he complained to this service later that month.  He says that he was spending  thousands 
of pounds each  month  on gambling.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Aqua had performed sufficient assessments before making any credit  limit increases  and 
before approving his loan application. She said that Aquas system notes show that Mr Hs 
vulnerability was recorded  in February 2019 and she thought  that his vulnerability  couldve 
been recorded sooner, but that wouldnt have prevented him from making further gambling 
transactions. She thought  that it would be unreasonable  to expect Aqua to take action as 
Mr H paid off his balance  which  showed  he managed his account well and he didnt request 
it to lower his limit. She said that there were no further credit limit increases and his request 
to close his account was actioned once  the full balance was repaid. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that hed like the whole of his complaint to be checked and not just the period from when he 
made Aqua aware of his gambling. He asks whats the point of a vulnerable marker on a 
customers account if it means no action is required and why was it only put on his account 
in February 2019  when  he made it aware of his gambling before then. He says that Aqua 
shouldve suspended his credit card or reduced the limit on the account (and the limit wasn't 
reduced until after Aqua was contacted  by this service). He says that a large number of 
complaints to this service  which  involve gambling issues are settled, this isnt an easy topic  
for him and he feels that he wasn't protected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr H for his gambling  
issues and for the other difficulties that hes suffered as a result. I see that hes getting  
treatment for it and that seems to be a positive step. 
He complained to Aqua  about  irresponsible lending in September  2018  and he then 
complained about those  issues  to this service later that month and referred to his gambling  
issues. His complaint about Aquas subsequent response to his gambling issues has been  
added since then. But as it wasnt included as part of his original complaint, Im unable to 
Ref: DRN72862152fully address those  issues in this decision. If Mr H wants to make  a complaint about Aquas 
response to his gambling issues  he should  complain to Aqua and then  if hes not satisfied 
with its response  he may be able to complain to this service.
Mr H had a credit card account with Aqua with a credit limit of £250.  It says that his account 
was reviewed in May 2017 and he had become eligible for a credit limit increase even 
though some over limit charges had been  applied to his account. It says that over limit 
charges dont disqualify a customer from receiving a credit limit increase unless they 
received them for each  of the three months preceding the credit limit increase. Mr H was 
offered an increase in his credit limit to £500 which he accepted. Im not persuaded that it 
was irresponsible  for Aqua to offer Mr H an increase in his credit limit from £250 to £500 at 
that time.
It says that a further account review took place in October  2017  and Mr H was eligible for a 
credit limit increase from £500 to £1,000 which was offered  to him and accepted. It says that 
another over limit fee had been applied to his account since his last credit  increase,  but the 
account was still within its policy for a credit limit increase.  Im not persuaded that theres  
enough evidence  to show that it was irresponsible for Aqua to offer Mr H an increase in his 
credit limit from £500 to £1,000 at that time  and if he didnt want  it, he had the option to not 
accept it. 
Mr H then contacted  Aqua in June 2018  and asked for his credit limit to be increased to 
£2,000. It said that it could only increase his credit limit to £1,600  which he accepted. And 
in August 2018 he contacted it again and asked for his credit  limit to be increased  to £1,800 
but it declined  his request. Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show that it 
was irresponsible  for Aqua to increase Mr Hs credit limit from £1,000 to £1,600 at that time. 
Mr H had asked it for an increase to £2,000 but it only increased  it to £1,600 and declined 
his request to increase his limit in August 2018 which  I consider shows  that it was acting 
responsibly.
When Mr H complained to Aqua in September 2019  its notes show  that he was: unhappy 
with the irresponsible lending and [credit limit increases]. There was no mention of his 
gambling issues at that time and its final response  letter didnt refer to those issues.  He only 
referred to his gambling issues when he complained to this service later that month. 
The adjudicator said that Mr Hs gambling  issues were first noted on his account by Aqua in 
February 2019, but he says that he made it aware of his gambling issues before then. But 
Ive seen nothing  to show that he made Aqua aware  that he had gambling  issues  before his 
complaint to this service  which  was then sent to Aqua by this service the following month. So 
I consider that it should then have been aware of his gambling issues. But Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that it was aware of his gambling issues when it 
increased his credit  limit or made the loan to him. 
Mr H has continued to spend money  on gambling but Aqua hasnt increased his credit  limit 
and has received no request from him to reduce his credit limit. He asked  for it to close his 
account and he borrowed money from his family to clear the outstanding  balance of the 
account so that it could  be closed.  Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show 
that Aqua has acted  incorrectly  or that it was required to take any other  actions.
Mr H applied to Aqua for a loan of £2,500 in July 2018 and he entered  into a fixed sum loan 
agreement. The loan was repayable by 47 monthly  payments of £72.48 and a final payment  
of £72.24 and the interest rate was 18.9%  APR.  Hed provided information  to show  that his 
Ref: DRN72862153monthly income was £1,600 and that his expenses were £697 (£47 on credit commitments,  
£150 on rent, £100 on groceries, £100  on insurance, £50 on travel  and other  expenses  of 
£250). The outstanding balance on his credit card in June 2018 was £373.20  (with  a credit 
limit of £1,600)  and the minimum payment  was £24.65. 
A lender should make proportionate checks about the affordability of a loan before lending  to 
a customer. What is proportionate  will depend on the circumstances of the loan. I consider 
that the information that Aqua had gathered about  Mr Hs income and expenditure  was 
proportionate for a loan of £2,500 with monthly  repayments of £72.48. And I consider that it 
was reasonable  for it to conclude on the basis of that information that the loan was 
affordable for Mr H at that time.
Mr Hs credit card statement for July 2018  after the loan had been made to him  shows  
that he had new transactions of £1,694  many of which related to gambling. But there were 
no such transactions on the June 2018 statement. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that it was irresponsible for Aqua to have made the loan to Mr H or that the 
loan was unaffordable for him at the time that it was made to him.
Aqua says that that the outstanding balance  on the loan account  is £1,557.54. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that its acted incorrectly in its dealings with 
Mr H. So, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to write off the loan,  
refund the interest or fees that hes been charged or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7286215