K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) stopped  her 
unemployment claim on her mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
Another business administered the policy, but L&G as the underwriter  are ultimately 
responsible for the assessment and payment of claims under this policy  and so are 
responsible for this complaint.  So within my final decision  Ill only refer to L&G.  But in 
referencing L&G, this includes  the actions of the business responsible for administering  the 
policy and/or  the claim.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 July 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally upheld  Mrs Bs complaint in part.
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
L&G responded saying it agreed  with my provisional findings and had nothing  further  to add.
Mrs B remained of the opinion that she felt let down  by L&G as she was told that her claim 
would continue to be paid, as long as she proved  she was working less than 16 hours  a 
week. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to what Mrs B has said about  what L&G told her  but I did explain within my 
provisional decision that I agreed L&G did cause  confusion  by giving Mrs B the impression 
that she could  continue to claim as long as she proved she was working less than 16 hours a 
week. 
But, and importantly, I explained why it was fair for the claim  despite  the confusion   to 
only be paid up until the 11 May 2018.  
This was because of the call Mrs B had with L&G on 11 May 2018. From this, I was satisfied 
that Mrs B, at this point,  was made aware that being registered as unemployed was a 
requirement of her claim to continue.  
As Mrs B didnt re-register  with the Benefits Office, or attempt to re-register  and let L&G 
know what the outcome  was if there  were  any complications in doing  so, I considered it was 
fair for the claim to stop on 11 May 2018.
I appreciate that Mrs B will be disappointed,  and I know Mrs B feels strongly about her 
complaint, but I havent seen anything that changes my opinion.
Ref: DRN78639972my final decision
For the reasons  give above, and within my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint in 
part.
My final decision is that:
L&G acted fairly  in not seeking to recover the claim  payment of £891.12 which  was 
for the period 4 March  2018 until 5 April 2018
L&G caused confusion around  the requirements  Mrs B needed to satisfy  for her 
unemployment claim. Because of this, Mrs B was given  the impression that she could 
claim despite not being registered  as unemployed. It wasnt, in my opinion, until 
11 May 2018 that this confusion was cleared up and Mrs B was made  formally aware 
during her call with L&G that she needed  to be registered as unemployed for her 
claim to continue.
Because of this, L&G should pay Mrs B a further  claim  benefit  covering the period  
5 April 2018 until 11 May 2018.
As Mrs B didnt re-register  with the Benefits Office from 11 May 2018  L&G doesnt 
need to do anything further  in respect  of Mrs Bs unemployment claim.
L&Gs additional compensation  award to Mrs B of £150 (in total) for the confusion  
and inconvenience  caused is fair. If this hasnt been paid L&G should reissue the 
payment or cheque.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78639973Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs B is unhappy  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)  stopped her unemployment  claim 
on her mortgage payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Another business administered the policy, but L&G as the underwriter  are ultimately responsible for 
the assessment  and payment of claims  under this policy   and so are responsible  for this complaint.  
So within my provisional decision Ill only refer to L&G. But in referencing L&G,  this includes the 
actions of the business responsible for administering  the policy and/or the claim.
background
In May 2017,  Mrs B became unemployed. Mrs B submitted an unemployment claim to L&G in 
November 2017. The claim was assessed,  accepted  and claim benefits  were paid.
In March 2018, Mrs B contacted  L&G to inform them that she had found a new job. Mrs Bs contract  
was for 52 hours a year. Mrs B was guaranteed  at least one hour a week but with the possibility of 
more hours. Mrs B explained that it was less than 16 hours a week but the amount of hours would 
vary and she would receive short notice as to when  she was required to work. Because of the varying 
hours and short notice Mrs B told L&G she wouldnt  be able to continue to sign on with the Job Centre 
(Benefits Office).
Mrs B wanted  to know how this would impact her ongoing unemployment  claim. L&Gs  adviser 
explained that the claim could continue as long as it was satisfied  that Mrs B was working less than 
16 hours a week.
Mrs B provided the necessary information to L&G. Mrs B then received a letter  on 12 April 2018 
saying that the claim payment had been  made.
L&G explained in its letter  that as Mrs B was working  less than 16 hours per week her claim payment 
was not affected, providing she continued to actively seek full time employment. L&G also asked that 
when Mrs B submitted  her continuing claim form each month she also provided a copy  of her wage 
slip(s) for the work she had completed during that month, so it could ensure  that Mrs B was working 
less than 16 hours a week.
L&G also explained that it wanted a copy of the Benefits  Office P45 that was issued  to Mrs B when 
she had to sign off or any other  documents Mrs B had to support the Benefits Office decision to stop 
her claim with them.
Mrs B provided the P45. Upon receiving the information   L&G wrote out to Mrs B on 3 May 2018. It 
said that as Mrs Bs registration with the Benefits Office  had ended  on 4 March 2018, it had paid Mrs 
Bs claim  when it shouldnt have. This was because the policy terms required Mrs B to be registered  
as unemployed with the Benefits  Office.
L&G asked Mrs B to pay back  the claim  amount she had received when she shouldnt have done. 
This was for the period  4 March 2018,  when Mrs B was no longer registered  as unemployed with the 
Benefits Office, up until 5 April 2018  when it paid that months claim benefit. The amount  it asked 
Mrs B to pay back was £891.12
 
Unhappy, Mrs B contacted L&G on 11 May 2018. Mrs B explained that she had informed L&G that 
she wouldnt  be able to continue to sign on with the Benefits Office  because of the employment she 
had undertaken  and was told that it wouldnt affect her claim.
Ref: DRN78639974L&G realised that there had been confusion and an error  on its part. It explained that as Mrs B had 
told them about her situation  before and as it hadnt clearly explained that she needed  to still be 
registered with the Benefits Office, it wouldnt seek to recover the claim payment. It also explained 
that, going  forward,  if Mrs B wanted to continue to claim,  she would need to be registered with the 
Benefits Office. Finally it offered Mrs B £50 as compensation for the confusion  it had caused.
Nothing further  happened  until July 2018 when Mrs B wrote to L&G to formally complain. Mrs B re-
iterated the reasons why she was unhappy that her claim  wasnt continuing.
In August 2018, L&G issued its formal response. It maintained that in order for the claim to continue, 
Mrs B needed  to be registered as unemployed with the Benefits Office. But it did accept that Mrs B 
hadnt been given the clearest advice and offered a further £100.
Mrs B remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said the intention  of the policy terms regarding  being 
registered as unemployed  was to ensure the policyholder was trying to find their way back into work, 
which was a requirement  of receiving unemployment benefit. He thought  Mrs B had shown this 
through trying to get back into work  and having  undertaken a role that offered  some hours of work. 
And as Mrs B was given the impression she could continue to claim as long as she was working less 
than 16 hours  a week, he thought  L&G had unfairly ended Mrs Bs claim.
Our adjudicator recommended  that L&G continue to pay the claim up until Mrs Bs unemployment 
ended because she returned to full time employment or the maximum  duration Mrs B could claim had 
been reached.
As L&G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, the matter has been  referred to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs Bs claim was made, and was being paid. This complaint centres on whether  L&G ended  the 
claim unfairly.
First, having looked at the terms of Mrs Bs policy, I can see they do require her to be registered as 
unemployed with the Benefits Office  for an unemployment claim.
This is not an unusual term and it is a common requirement from an insurer  to a consumer  who is 
seeking to claim unemployment benefit.  Being registered  as unemployed with the Benefits Office  is 
independent evidence that insurers can rely on to show that a consumer is unemployed or out of work  
and is actively looking  for work.
Mrs B managed to find some  work  while  she was unemployed and looking for full time employment. 
The contract was for one hour a week  but with the possibility of more hours. Mrs B because of the 
short notice she would receive about her working times, ended her registration  with the Benefits  
Office. Mrs Bs registration with the Benefits Office is recorded as ending on 4 March 2018.
So, Mrs B had already ended her registration as unemployed, prior to contacting L&G on 12 March 
2018 when she called to see what it meant for her claim.
Ref: DRN78639975Ive listened to the call Mrs B had with the adviser on 12 March 2018.  I agree  that there was confusion 
and the adviser should have been able to deal with Mrs B query  better  than they did. I think the 
adviser thought that the Benefits Office  had stopped Mrs Bs unemployment benefits  and not the other 
way round. Its clear  that this led to confusion on L&Gs side. I can see why Mrs B was left with the 
impression that her claim could continue despite not being registered  with the Benefits Office. But the 
adviser did also say for Mrs B to explain everything when she submitted her next continuing  claim 
form. 
Mrs B did submit her continuing claim form explaining her situation. The claim payment was paid, 
and L&G asked Mrs B for continuing  evidence  each month  to show that she was working less than 16 
hours a week.  It also asked  for the P45 she would have received when she signed off from the 
Benefits Office.
When L&G understood that Mrs B had signed off from the Benefits  Office it asked for the claim 
payment it had made to be returned. When Mrs B contacted L&G about this, I am glad to see that 
L&G spotted  that there was confusion that stemmed from their side and agreed to not recover any 
claim payment it had paid. Mrs B had been open  and honest in supplying the information about her 
circumstances and it was for L&G to give her correct information  about what the policy requirements  
are for her unemployment  claim. L&G offered  £50 for the inconvenience caused at this point.
But, listening  to this call Mrs B had with L&G, it did make Mrs B aware that being  registered  as 
unemployed with the Benefits Office  was a requirement  of the policy if she wanted her unemployment  
claim to continue. 
Mrs B explained that she had difficulty in getting to the Benefits Office every two weeks because  of 
the short  notice she was given about the hours she would be working.  This was discussed  a little, but 
ultimately the adviser explained that Mrs B did need  to be registered as unemployed. Mrs B said that 
she would contact  the Benefits Office to see if she could re-register and would get back  in touch  with 
L&G.
But I cant see that anything  further happened. 
Mrs B had signed off from the Benefits Office  on 4 March 2018, prior to her starting the new job and 
prior to her informing  L&G about  what impact  this would  have on her claim.  I appreciate that being 
given short notice of what hours you will be working can make it difficult  to meet an appointment with 
the Benefits Office. But I cant see that Mrs B attempted  to try and work the hours she was given 
whilst trying to remain  registered as unemployed. It may have  been the case that her working hours  
didnt clash with her Benefits  Office  appointment which Mrs B says was once every two weeks. 
And when  Mrs B was informed in May 2018 that she did need to be registered  as unemployed to 
continue the claim, I cant see that Mrs B pursued this and contacted  L&G to let them  know the 
outcome of any conversations she had with the Benefits  Office.
So as it stands, I am of the opinion that Mrs B didnt  make a reasonable attempt to comply with the 
policy terms of being registered as unemployed.  
L&G did cause confusion by giving  Mrs B the impression that she could continue to claim, but overall 
L&G did pay her claim up until 5 April 2018 which  included the period Mrs B wasnt registered  as 
unemployed. As that was L&Gs mistake with the advice it gave, it was fair that it didnt seek to 
recover that payment.
But, and importantly,  Mrs B from 11 May 2018 was aware that being  registered was a requirement of 
her claim to continue.  Mrs B didnt re-register with the Benefits Office, or attempt to re-register and let 
L&G know what the outcome was if there were  any complications in doing so.
Ref: DRN78639976Overall I think  Mrs B could  have  remained  registered as unemployed despite finding work. If there 
was a clash with her work conflicting with her appointment with Benefits  Office and she missed her 
appointment, she could have let the Benefits Office know the reason and arranged to reschedule the 
appointment. And Mrs B could  have  kept L&G updated also.
That said, although Mrs B had signed off from the Benefits Office, she was given the impression that 
she could continue to claim. The claim  was paid up until 5 April 2018. But in my opinion, Mrs B would 
have been reasonably  aware that being registered  as unemployed  was a definite requirement, when 
Mrs B and L&G spoke on 11 May 2018.
So I think Mrs B is owed  a further claim  payment, covering  5 April 2018  until 11 May 2018. I say this 
because for this period Mrs B was under the impression that her claim was continuing and the 
confusion about continuing  to be registered as unemployed hadnt been cleared  up. So Mrs B was 
under the impression  that she didnt  need to be registered and as long as she provided  wage slips 
showing she was working less than 16 hours a week  for her employer and provided evidence  to show 
that she was actively seeking full time employment, her claim would be met.
As Mrs B was aware on 11 May 2018 that she needed  to be registered  as unemployed for her claim  
to continue and didnt pursue re-registering or informing  L&G of the Benefits Office decision if this was 
declined, then L&G dont  need to pay the claim  beyond this date.
Finally, in respect of the additional compensation payments L&G offered Mrs B for the confusion  
caused, I can see in total it offered £150. £50 was initially  offered in May 2018. And a further £100 
was offered in its letter to Mrs B in August  2018. 
I think  this is a fair amount  for the confusion caused by L&G.  Also L&G acted  fairly  in not seeking  to 
recover the claim  payment for the period Mrs B wasnt registered as unemployed  due to the 
confusion it caused.
It appears the £50 compensation  was to be processed to Mrs Bs account  with the £100  
compensation being issued by cheque. I am unsure whether these have actually been paid or cashed 
 if they havent, L&G should ensure they are.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  give above, I am provisionally  minded  to uphold this complaint, in part.
My provisional  decision  is that:
L&G acted fairly in not seeking to recover the claim  payment of £891.12 which  was for the 
period 4 March  2018 until 5 April 2018
L&G caused confusion  around  the requirements  Mrs B needed  to satisfy for her 
unemployment claim. Because of this, Mrs B was given the impression that she could claim  
despite not being  registered as unemployed. It wasnt, in my opinion, until 11 May 2018 that 
this confusion was cleared up and Mrs B was made  formally aware during her call with L&G 
that she needed to be registered as unemployed  for her claim  to continue.
Because of this, I think L&G should pay Mrs B a further claim benefit  covering the period 5 
April 2018 until 11 May 2018.
As Mrs B didnt re-register with the Benefits Office from 11 May 2018  L&G doesnt need to 
do anything further in respect  of Mrs Bs unemployment claim.
L&Gs  additional compensation award to Mrs B of £150 (in total)  for the confusion and 
inconvenience caused  is fair. If this hasnt  been paid L&G should reissue the payment or 
cheque.
Ref: DRN78639977I invite both parties to respond with anything further that they wish for me to consider. They should do 
so by the date set out at the start of this decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7863997