K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. Although  
he says he didnt  know the PPI was optional,  he hasnt given us any more detail about 
what Halifax did to make  him think he had to have it. And Ive seen the type of paperwork 
hes likely to have completed at the time and I think this would have made it clear the PPI 
was optional.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Although Mr G would have received generous  
sick pay from his employer, the PPI would pay out on top of this and would have been 
particularly useful  if he was off for more than six months and his income halved. The PPI 
would mean he wouldnt have to worry about  his mortgage repayments  and would leave 
his savings available for other household  expenses. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. I dont 
know how Halifax explained  the cost of the PPI but its likely Mr G would have 
understood he had to pay something  for it. As the cost was less than £10 a month  and 
seems to have been affordable, I think its unlikely better information would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023922