K821x#15Complaint
Dr and Miss H have complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLCs (Lloyds) changes to its overdraft  
pricing structure caused them financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 18 June  2021, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Dr and Miss Hs complaint 
and invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Lloyds  confirmed that it accepted  my provisional decision and that it agreed to 
pay redress. Dr and Miss H also replied confirming that they accepted my decision and had 
nothing further  to add. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their comments and Im pleased to see that Lloyds has agreed  to pay 
redress to Dr and Miss H. I set out in some  detail why I intended to uphold Dr and Miss Hs 
complaint in my provisional decision. And, in the absence of anything  further from either 
party, I see no reason  to change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im still upholding  Dr and Miss Hs complaint. And 
I remain satisfied that Lloyds should  put things right in the way I set out below. 
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Dr and Miss H.
Having thought about everything, I think that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Dr and Miss Hs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Dr and Miss Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in May 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Dr and Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record negative  information on          
Dr and Miss Hs credit file, it should  backdate this to May 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Dr and Miss H along  with 8% simple  interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were  made  (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Lloyds should remove  any adverse information from Dr and Miss Hs 
credit file. 
Ref: DRN79987412 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Dr and Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Dr and Miss Hs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN79987413COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Dr and Miss H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLCs (Lloyds) changes  to its overdraft  pricing 
structure caused them  financial difficulty.
Background
Dr and Miss H complained  to Lloyds  after it said it was about  to change its overdraft pricing structure 
in January 2019. They  said they extra cost would make their overdraft  more difficult to repay. Lloyds 
didnt uphold  the complaint. And as Dr and Miss H were dissatisfied they referred the complaint to our 
service.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations  and good industry  practice we consider when 
looking at whether  a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying  overdraft  charges. 
So I dont consider  it necessary  to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted unfairly  when 
it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed  Dr  and Miss Hs 
overdraft in May 2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that          Dr and Miss H were in no 
position to sustainably repay what they owed  within  a reasonable period of time. 
Dr and Miss Hs statements  leading up to the renewal show  theyd spent  a prolonged in their overdraft  
and this was after a significant  credit  balance  had been depleted. Im also mindful that there was a 
drop in the amount of credits  going  into the account each month too. In these  circumstances, I cant  
see how Lloyds reasonably concluded Dr and Miss H were able to repay £7,000.00 within a 
reasonable period.  
So having carefully thought  about everything, Im satisfied that think that Lloyds  should have stopped 
providing the overdraft on the same terms in May 2018, stopped adding fees and charges  and instead 
treated Dr and Miss H with forbearance. All of this means that Lloyds should  have realised Dr and 
Miss H were having difficulty clearing their overdraft, werent using their overdraft  as intended and 
shouldnt have continued  offering it on the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Dr and Miss Hs 
overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly  and 
reasonably. 
Dr and Miss H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft  and this ended  
up exacerbating difficulty clearing  it. So Im minded to find that Lloyds didnt  treat Dr and Miss H fairly  
and they lost out because of what  Lloyds  did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation   what Lloyds needs  to do to put things  right for Dr and Miss  H.
Having thought about everything,  Im minded to issues a final decision which says it would  be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Dr and Miss Hs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Dr and Miss Hs current  overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied  to it after the renewal in May 2018 are removed.
AND
Ref: DRN79987414If an outstanding balance remains  on the overdraft  once these adjustments have  been 
made Lloyds  should  contact  Dr and Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Dr and Miss Hs credit file, it 
should backdate this to May 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges  results  in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Dr and Miss H along with 8% simple  interest on the overpayments  from the date they 
were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding  balance remains  
after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove any adverse 
information from Dr and Miss Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds must  give Dr and 
Miss H a certificate showing  how much tax it has taken  off if they ask for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Dr and Miss Hs complaint and tell Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 6 July 2021  changes my mind, thats what Ill tell 
Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7998741