K822xcomplaint
Mrs G made  a claim on her motor insurance policy following the total loss of her leased car. 
She complains that Advantage  Insurance Company  Limited made her an offer for the cars  
full retail market value and then withdrew  it. This left her out of pocket on the lease  
agreement.
background 
Mrs G entered into a lease agreement  in March 2018 with a lease company and insured the 
car with Advantage. She paid a deposit  of £596.77 as her first instalment and paid the 
remainder in equal monthly payments  of £198.92.  In October  2018,  Mrs Gs car was 
involved in a car accident and the car was declared  a total loss. Advantages engineer 
offered Mrs G £14850, being  the retail market  value of the car in settlement and Mrs G 
accepted. Advantage then withdrew the offer and settled the lease agreement at £11666  
directly with the lease  company. 
Mrs G says this left her out of pocket as she had been paying the monthly payments and 
had paid a deposit to purchase the car. She says she was also left with a shortfall of £748 to 
pay on the lease  agreement. She wants to be paid the difference  between  the £14850  
Advantage offered her and the £11666 paid to the lease company. 
Advantage said they didnt know the car was leased and thought it was privately owned by 
Mrs G so made the offer directly to her on this basis. They say they would have 
communicated directly  with the lease company to begin with if they had known the car was 
leased. They  accepted the error  and offered to pay Mrs G £50. They  didnt agree that they 
should pay the difference between what was offered to her and what  was paid to the lease 
company as the car was owned by the lease company and not Mrs G. 
The investigator agreed Advantage had made a mistake but didnt think Advantage should  
pay the difference in the two amounts  as Mrs G had asked. Instead she asked Advantage to 
pay £332.49 plus 8% simple interest per year in consideration of the deposit  Mrs G paid at 
the start of the lease. This factors in the pro rata cost of 234 days  use Mrs G had from the 
lease date to the date the car was declared  a total loss. Advantage agreed to make  this offer 
to the consumer. The investigator also didnt  think the compensation amount was sufficient 
and asked them to pay £100.
Mrs G didnt agree. She says Advantage already knew the car was leased as it is on her 
policy documents which she provided  us so she feels she should be paid the difference  
between the original offer to her and what was paid to the lease company. She asked for this 
to be reviewed again so this has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Offer to Mrs G
Ive looked at Mrs Gs motor insurance policy  with Advantage. It clearly says the car is 
Leased  private so Advantage should  have known  this. I think  Advantage made an honest 
mistake and because  they failed to realise  the car was leased they made  the settlement offer 
Ref: DRN79381972to her in error. Advantage accepted they made  a mistake here. Our role here is not to punish 
a business for a mistake its made, it is to ensure a fair resolution to complaints when things 
go wrong. So I dont  think asking Advantage to pay the balance money just because  of the 
error they made  would  be fair.
Payment to the lease company
The terms and conditions  of the policy say:
If your Car is on lease  or contract  hire, your Insurer  will pay the lease or contract hire 
company either the Market Value of the Car, or the amount required to settle  the 
contract, whichever is less.
The policy terms are clear  that if the car was hired  under a leasing agreement, the insurer  
will pay the total loss claim directly to the lease hire company. So I dont think  Advantage 
was wrong to do this.
The terms clearly say Advantage is entitled  to pay the lease company the amount required 
to settle the contract. So I didnt think Advantage acted  unreasonably in terms of the sum 
they paid the lease  hire company. Also, the difference between  that and the cars market  
value was never going to be payable to Mrs G because the lease company owned the car 
that was the subject of the total loss figure and so were entitl ed to receive  any settlement 
payment. 
Deposit
Its clear that as Mrs Gs lease didnt run its full term, shes paid a disproportionate  sum as a 
deposit. So I would expect an insurer to refund the consumer part of the deposit.  But only if 
the sum they would  pay out would  be no more than the cars market value. Advantages 
engineer said the cars retail market value  was £14850. But the policy only required 
Advantage to pay the lease hire firm the sum they asked for, which was £11666. So in my 
view Advantage had the scope to consider paying  Mrs G for part of any deposit shed paid 
so she doesnt  lose out on the entire  deposit.  I dont think paying Mrs G this amounts to 
betterment. So I think its fair and reasonable to require  Advantage to pay Mrs G for the extra 
amount she paid. 
Mrs Gs first payment on the lease was the deposit of £596.77. She was then required to pay 
23 instalments of £198.92.  The lease  ran for 234 days out of the 730 days  it should  have  
been - so I think Mrs G should only have  to pay the pro rata amount of deposit. Ive 
explained my calculations below.
Cost of entire lease   £596.77 deposit  + £198.92 monthly instalment x 23 months of 
lease = £5171.93
Total payments  made - £596.77 deposit + £1392.44 monthly  payments made(seven)  
= 1989.21
Cost of lease  per day - £5171.93 / 730 days = £7.08
Cost of lease  up to accident date - £7.08  daily cost of lease x 234 days  of use 
= £1656.72
Ref: DRN79381973I think it would be fair and reasonable for Advantage to pay Mrs G the difference  between 
the pro rata amount and the amount actually paid.  The pro rata amount for the lease  up to 
the accident date was £1656.72 and Mrs G had paid a total of £1989.21. For her not to lose 
out as a result of the car being  declared  a total loss, I recommend that Advantage pay the 
difference between  the two amounts. I calculate  this to be £332.49  plus 8% simple interest 
per year from the date of settlement. 
Advantage have  accepted they made  the settlement offer to Mrs G in error. This has caused  
her distress  as she thought she was going  to receive more  money.  In addition to this, she 
was told she would  be left out of pocket  covering a shortfall for money that was still owed on 
the lease. This has added to the distress  shes suffered and so I think she should be 
compensated £100 for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Advantage Insurance Company  Limited to pay the 
following:-
-pay Mrs G £332.49  plus 8% simple interest per year from the date of settlement 
-pay Mrs G £100  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7938197