K822xcomplaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that British  Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) wouldnt compensate 
them for a missed appointment. This complaint has been brought  by Mrs M, on behalf of 
them both.  
background 
Mrs M said that she booked an appointment with BGI for a boiler service. The appointment 
was on 8 March,  between 12pm and 6pm. She said that she had to pay someone  else to 
cover for her, so she could have  that time off. But she said that BGIs engineer didnt turn up. 
So she wanted  BGI to pay her the cost of the cover  shed had to arrange.
Mrs M said that she rang BGI after 5pm, and it said that the appointment was still booked. 
But then it rang back, and said that the engineer  wouldnt  be coming. She said she 
complained, and BGI said it wouldnt cover her losses.  Mrs M said that BGI had provided her 
with very poor customer service, both in terms of the initial missed appointment and then in 
how it dealt with her complaint.
BGI said that when  Mrs M rang,  the engineer  was still due to attend.  But only a few minutes 
later, it found out that he wouldnt be able to get there after all. BGI said it does have  to 
prioritise emergency breakdown appointments for things like a total loss of heating  and hot 
water. 
BGI said it had sent Mrs M a cheque for £115, made up of £65 for not having  had an annual 
service under her policy, and £50 for the missed appointment. It said that £65 was the cost 
of its annual service. BGI thought that its offer was fair. Mrs M has told us she received that 
cheque, but wouldnt be cashing it. 
Mrs M sent us payslips for someone who works for her. These sheets showed that this 
person worked  on 8 March, and that this particular weekday is not regularly worked by that 
person. The pay rate was £35 per hour, and Mrs M said that two and a half hours  of the 
payslip was work that she would otherwise have done herself. 
On the basis of this, our investigator recommended that BGI increase its offer. BGI said it 
would pay a further £40 to cover  the cost of providing someone to fill in for Mrs M when she 
wasnt available. BGI also said that it would carry out the service  that Mrs M had missed, 
even though she and Mr M had cancelled their policy. 
Mrs M said that she didnt want to accept this. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said shed listened  to the calls that Mrs M 
had with BGI, and she appreciated that the call handlers delivery  couldve been  better  when 
Mrs M first tried to raise  her complaint. But she said that this person didnt work  for the 
complaints department. Mrs M did get an explanation about what compensation is usually 
offered, and had an opportunity to discuss her complaint with a manager and a customer  
relations adviser.  And our investigator said that she thought  that BGI had thought about all 
the issues that Mrs M had raised. 
Our investigator said that it wasnt unreasonable for BGI to prioritise emergency work over 
scheduled services.  And our service doesnt usually ask businesses to pay compensation for 
the time someone  has spent taking a complaint. Our investigator thought that BGIs offer,  
Ref: DRN75400792which included the cost of the missed service at £65, £90 for Mrs Ms financial loss, and the 
offer of a service, was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M didnt  agree with that. She said that if the advisor she first spoke to couldnt  make 
decisions about complaints, he shouldnt have  made  his flippant  remark about possible 
redress. She also said that this person was trying  to blackmail her by requiring her to make a 
new appointment before she could raise a complaint. She said that the correspondence  
shed had since then with BGI was a complete waste of time.  And she wasnt  satisfied that 
BGI had other priorities on the day. She thought that BGI had failed to make an appointment 
because of incompetence rather  than poor weather or luck.
Mrs M said that she thought it might  be appropriate  for our service to look at BGIs wasting 
customers time unnecessarily.
Because Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigator, this complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mrs M and Mr M had a home emergency policy with BGI. An annual boiler service was 
included in the cost of that cover. Mrs M complained  about what  happened  when she 
arranged that annual service. 
-Mrs M suggested  that our service  should look at BGIs overall approach  to meeting 
appointments, to see if it is wasting  a lot of customer time.  But I explained that our 
service cant do that. We arent  a regulator.  We can only look at individual complaints. So 
thats what I did here.
-We knew BGI didnt attend the scheduled  appointment.  I did think  the late cancellation  of 
Mrs Ms appointment was unfortunate,  but I also thought it was clearly unforeseen. Mrs 
M didnt accept that BGIs engineer had been redirected  elsewhere because of an 
emergency. But I hadnt seen anything to suggest to me this wasnt  the case. 
-Mrs M spoke to BGI when it rang to cancel,  and she lodged  a complaint then. She 
objected to how BGI dealt  with this call. I agreed  with our investigator  that the issue of 
possible compensation couldve been  better handled at the start by the initial call 
handler, but I also noted that this call was confrontational in tone from the start. 
-I thought that BGI did then discuss Mrs Ms complaint with her in some detail, so she had 
the chance to put her points across. And I also didnt think BGI was seeking to blackmail  
Mrs M by asking  her to rebook. She had already paid for the boiler service, as part of her 
annual premium. So I thought BGI was trying to make sure that she got a service shed 
paid for.
-Mrs M said the correspondence she later entered  into with BGI was a waste of her time. 
BGIs letter to her about her complaint said if there  was anything further that she wanted 
to bring to BGIs  attention that hadnt already  been  considered,  she should get in touch 
with BGI. If she wasnt happy with the outcome, she could  complain to us. Mrs M said 
she responded to that letter from BGI, but was told her complaint was closed with it. 
Ref: DRN75400793-Id read the email  Mrs M sent to BGI, and I thought that the issues she raised there  were  
issues that BGI was already aware  of when it sent its letter  to her. So I thought  that 
Mrs M wasnt raising new issues that BGI hadnt already considered. She was objecting 
to the conclusion that BGI had reached  on her existing complaint. So her complaint was, 
quite properly, redirected to us by BGI. I didnt  think BGI made a mistake when it did that.
-Overall, I did think that the customer service  that BGI initially offered Mrs M, after her 
appointment was cancelled,  couldve been better. And I also appreciated that there was 
inconvenience to Mrs M if she had to stay in all afternoon  for an appointment that wasnt  
met. But I thought  that the offer that BGI made  provided a fair and reasonable outcome 
to her complaint.  
-Mrs M wanted  compensation  for the inconvenience, and she also wanted BGI to pay the 
costs shed incurred,  staying in that afternoon. I did think  that BGI should make a 
payment for inconvenience. But I didnt think it had to pay the costs shed incurred, 
staying in that afternoon. I didnt  think that was a loss to Mrs M that BGI caused. I said I 
would explain why I thought that.
-Mrs M told us that she missed a work opportunity. She said she had to pay someone 
else to cover for her. BGI has said it doesnt  usually  cover  lost wages, but Mrs M said 
this was a direct  financial loss to her. BGI agreed to increase its offer to cover that. 
-Mrs M showed  us that she had to pay someone  to cover a work  session  for her. I 
appreciated that shed missed out on an earning opportunity, and hadnt  got the boiler 
service she thought she would get. But Mrs M chose  when to book this appointment. So 
Mrs M was always going to lose that money. 
-The problem Mrs M had, was that she didnt get a service  on her boiler  during that time. 
So she presumably needed to arrange  a new service. But Mrs M hadnt shown us that 
the only way for her to get a boiler  service  now would be for her to miss out on further  
earning opportunities. Mrs M didnt want BGI to book a new service  for her. She hadnt 
said whether she intended to have  the boiler  serviced. 
-So I didnt think that Mrs M had actually shown us that there was a £90 loss to her, which 
was caused by what BGI did, as opposed  to, for example, when Mrs M had chosen to 
schedule this appointment.
-Mrs M also wanted us to take account of the fact that shed had to bring a complaint to 
our service. I had considered that, as well as all the issues  set out above,  in reaching my 
conclusion on this complaint. 
-BGI had offered £90 for Mrs Ms loss, plus £65 which is what  it pays  for a service,  and a 
free service to her boiler, the same as she wouldve  been  entitled to under her cancelled 
policy. For the reasons  Id set out, I thought the amount that BGI had offered provided 
fair and reasonable compensation for the missed appointment,  and what I considered  
were initial  lapses  in customer  service when Mrs M first tried to register her complaint. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BGI agreed  with my decision. Mr and Mrs M didnt  reply.
my findings
Ref: DRN75400794Although neither side has offered anything  further, Ive still reconsidered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind. So Ill now make the award I initially  proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs M and Mr M a total of 
£155 in compensation, and provide a free boiler service  if they wish to have this. British Gas 
Insurance Limited can include  in this amount any compensation it has already paid Mrs M 
and Mr M for this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7540079