K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with 
N.I.I.B Group Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) wasnt of satisfactory  quality. 
She would like the costs  of the repairs  to be reimbursed and to receive compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
background
In September  2018  Miss G acquired  a used car via a three year hire purchase agreement  
with Northbridge. The car was around three  and half years  old and had a mileage of 
38,500.
Miss G says that within a short time she noticed  the car made  a noise when  reversing, 
braking or turning.  The dealership investigated  the noise but said it couldnt find 
anything wrong. Miss G took the car back.
In October 2018 the car suffered a puncture and Miss G took the car to a local garage 
who advised her that all four of the cars tyres  required  replacing  as they were worn. 
Miss G contacted the dealership and the car was booked in. The dealership changed all 
the tyres  and cleaned  the brakes  as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss G says that the car continued to make the same  noise  as before despite the repairs  
that had been carried out by the dealership. She says she contacted the dealership again 
and tried to get the car further repaired but was sent back  and forth between  different 
branches of the dealership. So she decided  to take the car to another  garage for the 
repairs and was told that the brake pads needed replacing. In November 2018 Miss G paid 
for new brake pads to be fitted.
Miss G was unhappy that the car had been  supplied to her with defective tyres and 
brakes and complained to Northridge. She asked for compensation to cover  the repairs, 
the time it had taken to get the car repaired and loss of earnings.  Miss G explained she 
was a private hire driver and used  the car for business. 
Northridge didnt uphold  her complaint.  It said that the tyres had been replaced and the 
brakes cleaned  by the dealership as a gesture of goodwill. It also said that it hadnt been 
aware that Miss G was using the car as a private  hire vehicle rather than domestic use. And 
that due to this lack of knowledge it said the insurance policies  and warranty taken out by 
Miss G when shed acquired  the car and which had been included  in the financial 
agreement werent  valid.  It said these would need  to be cancelled  and any payments made 
by Miss G for these items  should be reimbursed.
Miss G was unhappy at Northridges decision and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended her complaint  should  be upheld. She said under the 
Consumer Credit Act 2015 the car must be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
And to be considered of satisfactory quality  the car needed to meet  the standard  
expected by a reasonable person taking into account things such as any description  of 
the car, its age, mileage  and price paid.
Our investigator said as this was a used car with a mileage of 38,500  then a reasonable 
person would expect  some parts  to have already suffered some wear  and tear. And that 
Ref: DRN77884662the risks of this car requiring repairs and maintenance  compared to a newer  one with a 
lower mileage were greater.
Our investigator noted that Miss G had driven further  6,100 miles in the car from the point of 
acquisition in September until the repairs in November 2018.  And that Northridge had said 
that these additional miles were substantially  more than would be expected if the car was 
only privately used. Northridge also said that this extra  mileage was evidence that the issue 
with the brake pads  was just fair wear and tear that had been brought  on sooner than 
normal due to the amount of use of the car.
Our investigator said that she was satisfied that the dealerships goodwill gesture of 
changing the tyres had been fair. She also said that a puncture could  result  from any number 
of different reasons  and that she didnt think it would be reasonable to require Northridge to 
reimburse Miss G the cost of that repair.
Our investigator said that usually  brake pads needing to be replaced would be considered 
as fair wear and tear; and here the cars  brakes had been raised as an advisory item when it 
had been subject to a MOT in March 2018. She said an advisory didnt mean  the car wasnt  
road worthy as it had passed its MOT but shed seen it had then been  driven  for a further 
7,200 miles before being acquired by Miss G. Our investigator said this would have  had an 
impact on the brakes meaning they would have been close  to the end of their working life.
Our investigator also said that Miss G had raised the noise the car had been  making  within  a 
short time of her acquiring it. And that this noise persisted until the brake pads were 
changed so it was reasonable to think the noise was connected to the standard of the 
brakes. She said she was satisfied that the issue  with the brakes wasnt  due to Miss Gs use 
of the car but had been present at the point of sale.
Our investigator said it would be fair for Northridge to reimburse  Miss G the cost of the 
repairs to the brakes and £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
to her having the fault repaired.
Miss G agreed  with our investigators view but Northridge  disagreed.  It said it agreed the 
brake pads  would have been  worn at the point of sale but didnt accept this was a fault or a 
minor defect with the car. It said brake pads were  a serviceable item which  degraded over 
time and that it wasnt industry  practice  for garages to replace brake pads on used cars 
until they were no longer  roadworthy or had reached the end of their lifespan.
Northridge said the car was used commercially and so was driven  substantially  more 
than would have  been expected. This meant  it was likely the brake  pads had worn  out 
more quickly than if the car had been for private use only.
Northridge said if it had been  aware  Miss G intended to use the vehicle for commercial  use 
it was likely it would have  declined her application for a financial agreement.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  the car must be of satisfactory quality, as described 
and fit for purpose at the point of sale. As set out by our investigator satisfactory quality is 
what a reasonable  person would expect  taking into account things like the age and 
mileage of the car. It also includes durability as although a reasonable person wouldnt 
Ref: DRN77884663expect all the components  of the car to last forever without repair they wouldnt expect 
repairs to be required for a reasonable period of time.
Here, the car was three and half years old with a mileage of 38,500. So I thought it was fair 
to say a reasonable person would expect some maintenance and repair  issues  would arise 
with the car.
Id seen that the car had a MOT in March 2018  which it had passed though there  were  
advisories regarding its front and rear brakes  pads wearing thin. However advisories  didnt 
mean the car wasnt  roadworthy but were references to the car requiring some 
maintenance or repairs in the future.
Miss G had acquired the car six months  after the MOT had been carried out and by this time 
the car had been driven for a further  7,000  so I agreed that this would have meant the brake 
pads had been further worn.
However, while I appreciated  Miss G had experienced a noise from the car she hadnt 
raised there  was an issue with the act of braking or that she considered  the car was unsafe 
to drive. Shed been able to drive  the car as Id seen she driven it to carry fare paying 
passengers for over three months  before  being advised by another  garage that the brake 
pads needed to be changed. And in this time she had driven the car another  6,000 miles 
which I thought would be fair to say was substantially more  than the average  expected  
mileage of 1000 miles per month.
It wasnt disputed that the brake pads would have been worn when Miss G acquired the 
car. The issue for me to decide was whether that meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality or fit for purpose.
Looking at the evidence  I didnt think I could reasonably  say the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale or that it wasnt fit for purpose.  As Id already  
said I thought a reasonable person would have expected  a car of this age and mileage 
to have required maintenance and repairs in a reasonable period of time and although  
the repairs were carried  out after around three  months I thought it was fair I look at the 
amount of use Miss G had made of the car in that time. I thought it was reasonable to 
say the repairs  to the brakes arose  as soon  as they did due to the number of miles 
being driven. Had the car been  used only for non- commercial  purposes then I thought 
the repairs wouldnt have  been needed  for several  months.
So although  the car was making a noise I thought this indicated that there  would be 
maintenance issues in the future  rather than the brake pads were faulty or needed 
immediate replacement. I didnt think I could fairly say the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality at the point of sale.
Miss G said she told the dealership shed intended to use the car as a taxi but Id seen that 
wasnt the occupation that was listed on her agreement. Id also seen that once Northridge 
became aware  that the car was being  used commercially it had contacted  Miss G to explain 
that the smart insurance and the tyre and alloy cover shed taken out wouldnt be valid nor 
would the two year guarantee.  These items all need  to be removed from the credit  
agreement and the balance owing adjusted to reflect what  Miss G actually  now owed.
However, I didnt think I needed  to resolve  whether the dealership knew Miss G was 
acquiring the car to use it commercially or not as it wouldnt alter my provisional view that 
Ref: DRN77884664the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and that I wasnt  intending to uphold  
Miss Gs complaint.
Miss G disagrees with my provisional  view. She says she believes that it is her right as a 
consumer to have  been provided  with a car that was in a serviceable  condition for six 
months. Miss G also said she had raised  the noise from the brakes within  days  of obtaining 
the car. Only after the noise getting  worse and losing confidence with the reassurance from 
the dealership  did she take the car to another garage when she was informed the brakes 
needed replacing. She said she believed the brakes  should have been replaced before shed 
purchased the car.
Miss G said the fact that the brakes  were shown as advisories on the MOT meant they 
werent of satisfactory  quality.
Miss G said she hadnt yet been  reimbursed for the wheel and tyre cover  shed taken out.
Northridge said it agreed with my provisional view except that it would be unable  to alter the 
agreement as this was a fixed rate fixed term agreement and the balance  couldnt be altered. 
However it said the dealership had attempted to make contact  with Miss G to reimburse her 
for the ancillary  products  she had taken out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my provisional  decision  the relevant law says that the quality  of the goods 
is satisfactory  if they meet the standard  that a reasonable  person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description  of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances. The other relevant circumstances things to take into account  
include the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles  history.   
The general state  and condition and other  things like their fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor  defects, safety, and durability can be 
aspects of the quality  of the goods.  But I dont  agree  with Miss  G that the car must  be of 
a serviceable  condition  for the first 6 months  to meet  the description  of satisfactory  
quality.  
The length  of time before  reasonable  maintenance  issues  arise  will depend  on a number  
of factors  such  as the age, condition  and use of the car. Here the car was three  and half 
years old and had a mileage of 38,500  so I think a reasonable person would expect 
maintenance and repair  issues to arise  over time and much sooner than if the car had been 
newer with a lower  mileage
Brakes are a serviceable component as they become worn  over time with use and I think a 
reasonable person would expect a used car to require  new brakes at some point. So I think 
its reasonable to look at the amount of use the car has had before the brakes required 
repair and Ive seen  that Miss G was able to drive  the car for 6,000  miles. I think  that had the 
car been subject  to an average use then the brakes  wouldnt have required repair as soon 
as they had and its fair to take that into account  when  considering  whether the car was of 
satisfactory condition or not.  
Ref: DRN77884665I disagree with Miss G that as the brakes were shown as an advisory item on the cars MOT 
they werent of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Its an indicator that works will be 
required in the future.  Noises from brakes  are a sign that repairs are likely to be required in 
the future.  Miss G hasnt  raised that there was an actual fault with the braking action of the 
car and was able to drive it as private hire vehicle for 6,000 miles.
I also disagree that because the brakes  were  an advisory the dealership  was under an 
obligation to replace them. I dont  have any evidence the car wasnt  roadworthy when 
Miss G acquired it.
So I havent changed my view and Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. I accept that the 
credit agreement cant be amended to remove the ancillary items Miss G also took out when 
she acquired the car but as she isnt eligible for these products then the dealership does 
need to reimburse  her. I understand that there  have  been efforts to do so but the dealership  
hasnt been able to make contact. I would suggest Miss G now makes contact herself so any 
repayment can be organised.
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7788466