K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a store card.
background
For the avoidance of doubt  although  FICL is neither the lender nor the seller  of the PPI 
policy complained  about, as the insurance  underwriter  of the policy  it has taken responsibility 
for this complaint.  So Ill only refer to FICL in this decision.
In 1997 Ms S took out a high street store card during a store visit. At the same time she also 
bought Account Cover  and element of which  was PPI designed to protect her card 
payments in the event she couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
The policy also provided purchase protection cover. But Ms S hasnt  complained about this 
element of cover. So as it doesnt form part of this complaint I havent considered  it. But for 
the purposes of the complaint and to put Ms S in the most favourable position, I have 
attributed the full cost of the policy to the PPI element. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  for every £100 Ms S owed on the card. And it offered a 
monthly benefit of 15% of the balanced owed until Ms S returned  to work or the balance was 
paid off - whichever came first.
FICLs records  show that Ms S paid just under  £60 in premiums during the life of the policy.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Ms S chose to take out PPI. 
And there was nothing  to indicate shed  lost out as a result of taking it out. He also said that 
because FICL arent a lender,  the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  (FCA) rules and guidance 
for businesses to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints that are affected by The 
Supreme Court ruling in the case  of Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance1 dont apply. So he 
said this didnt make a difference to Ms S complaint about  FICL.
Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  In doing so Ms S representative 
repeated its complaint point about high commission  and the non-disclosure of it.
The complaint therefore comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account  whats  
relevant here in deciding Ms S case.  
There doesnt appear to be a dispute  that PPI was bought during a store visit. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest FICL recommended the cover to Ms S  FICL said it didnt and Ms S 
doesnt know or cant remember. So FICL didnt have  to make sure the policy was right or 
suitable for Ms S. But it did have to give her enough  clear information about the policy  so 
she could make a properly informed decision about it. Ive kept this in mind in my 
consideration of the complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN79720072Ms S says FICL didnt make it clear she had a choice and that the cover was added without 
her knowledge.  FICL says Ms S chose PPI and it has provided  a copy of the store card 
application and agreement form completed  at the time.
Ive therefore  considered  this matter carefully.  In doing so Ive looked at the store card 
application FICL has provided   its from the time in question, so I think  it is important 
information - and weighed this up alongside what Ms S says happened.
Here I can see there was a separate  section for PPI headed Payment & Purchase  
Protection. After an outline  of the nature of the cover there was a box next to the statement: 
Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection  InsurancePlease 
debit my account with the relevant monthly premium  until further  notice. And the box is 
ticked.
Because Ms S also signed the overall  agreement,  it seems to me that Ms S chose to take 
out the cover  most  likely because the outline of cover caught her interest - by ticking  the 
required box. Ive not seen enough  evidence to persuade me that she wasnt given a choice 
in the matter or that PPI was added without her knowledge.
But theres not enough evidence to demonstrate that Ms S was given all of the information  
she needed to make an informed choice about  the policy. For example it doesnt appear the 
cost and benefit was made clear or that the significant exclusions and limitations of cover 
were clearly brought  to her attention, such as existing medical condition exclusions.
I think Ms S was likely sent a policy document by FICL after she took out the cover because  
this is what it was required  to do. But Ms S didnt base her decision on this information. 
So overall I dont  think it likely that Ms S got all of the information about the cover in a timely 
manner which she needed  to make a properly  informed  decision about it. And I dont  think 
that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
However, in light of Ms S particular circumstances at the time, I dont think  shes  lost out as 
a result of the things  FICL  did wrong. I say this because for the following reasons, I dont 
think Ms S would have  been put off taking out the policy if FICL had done more:
Ms S was eligible for the cover  and its benefits  for example she told us that despite 
working part-time she was working  at least 16 hours a week.
Ms S chose to take it out; albeit Im mindful she did so with incomplete information.
The policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for her based on her circumstances 
at the time, so I think  she would  have found  it useful. Ms S only had limited sick pay and 
no savings, so it would  have  helped her manage  the consequences  if she found herself 
unable to work as a result of accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
She may have been able to rely on her husbands wages for a time as she says. But the 
policy provided a monthly  benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance  and had the 
potential to clear the entire account balance.  And this might  have  been  better  than Ms S 
expected from the information she received when she chose it.
Ref: DRN79720073Ms S was employed and in good health,  so she wouldnt  have been affected  by any of 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover  for example existing medical 
condition exclusions.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable  for Ms S.
So overall I think Ms S chose to take out PPI because when it was offered  to her in the store 
card application  it was something  that interested her. And despite the fact that she didnt get 
clear information about the policy, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think shes lost 
out  I think Ms S would still most likely  have  bought  PPI if FICL had done more.
For the sake of clarity and completeness  (and for the benefit of Ms S representative) this is 
a complaint about FICL. FICL is an insurer - not a lender. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s140A of the Act and the rules and guidance made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) about the handling  of complaints  about the non-disclosure of commission in 
the light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable in this case. So this is not something for 
me to take into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Ms S has not lost out as a result  of buying 
PPI alongside  her store card, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7972007