K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  unfairly declined a claim and voided his 
landlords insurance policy.
background
Mr M took out a commercial landlords insurance policy with UKI on 5 November 2018, to 
provide cover for a house he rents  out.
He says that on 2 December  2018  the police  called him. They said there was suspicious 
activity at the house and asked his permission to force entry.  It turned out that the tenants  
had been growing cannabis and that extensive  damage had been  done to the property. 
Mr M notified UKI of his claim the following day.
Following an investigation UKI declined the claim and avoided  the policy. It said it did this 
because it believed Mr M had recklessly provided  information to it which was untrue or 
misleading. It said Mr M had told it the tenant  was employed but that he had not been able to 
to provide any documentary evidence to support this.
Mr M thought that was unfair. He said that, as far as he was aware, hed done everything he 
needed to do under the terms of the policy. In summary he said:
the tenant had told him he was a professional joiner in full time employment, and that 
he was moving to the area for his work;
the tenant appeared to be a family  man, his wife and young son were  present and 
had asked questions  about local schools and doctors;
hed obtained  proof of identification and wasnt aware he needed to obtain  proof  of 
employment;
the fact that the tenant paid six-months rent in advance  reassured him that he was a 
solid tenant.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and agreed with Mr M. 
He looked at the questions which Mr M had been  asked about the tenant when he took 
out the policy and could  see that he had answered  yes to a statement that the tenant 
was employed.
But the investigator didnt think Mr M had acted recklessly or that hed given 
deliberately misleading  information. This was because Mr M had interviewed  the 
tenant personally, was satisfied  by what the tenant  had told him, and wasnt  aware  that 
UKI required him to obtain proof of employment.  
Our investigator explained this to UKI in a letter dated 10 May 2020.  He asked UKI to 
put things right by reinstating the insurance  policy as if it hadnt  been voided and 
looking into the claim under the policy terms and conditions.
UKI strongly  disagreed. It referred to Mr Ms legal obligations as a landlord,  specifically 
the right to rent requirements. And it suggested  that it had other concerns about the 
claim. 
Ref: DRN71096212Another investigator considered what UKI had said. In an email of 16 September  2020 
he reminded  UKI that Mr M had obtained  proof  of identity  as required under the right to 
rent requirements, and he pointed out that there  was no legal requirement to obtain 
proof of employment. He said that if UKI had concerns that the correct checks under  
the right to rent requirements hadnt  been  completed it should let us know  what those 
concerns were. He also said that if UKI had other  concerns  it should  let us have 
evidence so that we could  consider them.
In response UKI said that it had avoided the policy because Mr M hadnt  obtained  
proof of employment from his tenant, not because he hadnt complied with the right to 
rent requirements. It said the policy application  made clear that the tenant must be 
employed and that it was not unreasonable to expect a landlord to check  the facts. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved it has now been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint for largely the same  reasons as our investigators. 
Mr M applied  for the policy on line. He confirmed, during the application process, that his 
tenant was employed.  He says he thought this was the true, based on what the tenant had 
told him and how the tenant had presented himself. Mr M says the tenant  offered to pay six-
months rent in advance and that he saw that as further evidence  that the tenant  was 
sound.
When UKI considered  Mr Ms insurance claim it asked him for documentary  proof  that his 
tenant was employed  and, when he couldnt  provide this, it avoided the policy, effectively  
treating it as if it never existed. It says it did this because  Mr M had breached the terms of 
the policy when  he told it the tenant was employed. It said this wasnt  a fair presentation  of 
the risk. 
This is a commercial policy and so the relevant law is The Insurance Act 2015. This places a 
duty on customers to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer  when  taking out a 
policy. If a customer fails to do that, deliberately or recklessly, then the insurer can avoid the 
policy. This is also set out in the general  terms of the policy.
As I understand it the tenants disappeared during  the police raid and havent been  traced.  It 
seems reasonable  to assume that the tenant wasnt, in fact, employed.  
But what  I have to consider is whether it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr M had 
deliberately or recklessly  misled it when he took out the policy.
UKI says it was unreasonable for Mr M to rely on the tenants word without getting  
documentary proof,  such as employment  references  or payslips. It thinks  that the tenant 
offering to pay six-months rent in advance was suspicious and should have put Mr M on alert 
that something might not be right.
I understand UKIs point. With hindsight it might have  been prudent for Mr M to make  further  
enquiries. But Mr M wasnt  an experienced landlord.  This was his only rental property and it 
Ref: DRN71096213had previously been let to family  friends.  I can understand that Mr M may have thought hed 
taken reasonable  steps to satisfy himself  that the tenant was suitable and that hed been 
reassured by the way the tenant  came across as a family man, interested  in the local 
amenities. I can also understand that Mr M might have thought the offer to pay rent in 
advance was a positive sign that the tenant  was sound  and wouldnt default  on the rent. I 
dont think it would necessarily have put him on alert, particularly as he says it was done as 
part of a negotiation for a slightly reduced  rent.
Mr M has said that he wasnt aware that he needed to obtain  proof  of employment and UKI 
hasnt provided  us with anything  to show that it made this clear to Mr M during the 
application process. And whilst I acknowledge that there is information for landlords on UKIs 
website, including  information on tenant  referencing, its not clear  that this was drawn to 
Mr Ms attention during  the application  process,  or that the suggested checks  were  a 
requirement of the policy. 
Mr M says he thought hed done everything  he needed to do as a responsible landlord and 
that he believed  the information  he gave to UKI to be true. 
In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr M deliberately  or recklessly 
supplied misleading  information about the tenants employment status when he applied for 
the policy. 
It follows that I dont think UKI can fairly avoid the policy for the reason it has given.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint and directing UKI Insurance Limited to reinstate the 
policy as if it hadnt  been voided  and to look into Mr Ms claim under the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 9 March  2021.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7109621