K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited.  He isnt happy  about the way it 
replaced his boiler  following a claim  under  his home  emergency policy.
background
Mr C had problems with his boiler in November  2018 and it was decided that it needed to be 
replaced. This was because it was beyond economic repair. Under  the policy terms Mr C 
had to pay for the installation costs of the boiler.
The replacement of Mr Cs boiler  didnt go smoothly and the new boiler had a leak and 
lacked pressure. It was decided that the pipework needed replacing and this had to be done 
above ground which Mr C found unsightly. And when the pipework was done issues still 
remained.
Aviva went  onto agree that a second replacement boiler would be installed. It acknowledged 
that the new pipework  shouldve  been  included in the original repair  costs  (and that there 
was a problem  with the flue). Given all the delays and poor service  it agreed to waive the 
pipework installation costs  and to pay £350  compensation.
Mr C complained to this service and our adjudicator looked into his complaint. He accepted  
that Aviva  got a number of things wrong. But he thought that Avivas  offer was fair in the 
circumstances. 
As Mr C didnt  agree so the matter  has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the complaint  
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
As it is accepted that Aviva got things wrong when it replaced Mr Cs boiler in relation to the 
quotation and the actual  replacement of the boiler  I dont propose  to rehearse the detail 
around this again  here. Ill simply consider whether Avivas action and offer of compensation 
is fair in all the circumstances.
It is clear that Mr C was put to a fair degree of stress and inconvenience  in having his boiler  
replaced on two separate occasions. And he was clearly left without heating for a short 
period of time.
But Aviva has offered Mr C £350  compensation in acknowledgement of this. And it has 
agreed to waive  the additional costs of the pipework (that shouldve been within the original 
replacement installation costs in any event). I think this is a fair amount of compensation in 
the circumstances and in line with awards  this service would generally make.
I can understand why Mr C doesnt  want the pipework being visible on the outside of his 
property. But I havent been provided with any evidence that this wasnt an appropriate  way 
to fix the problems with the pipework. And Aviva  has waived the costs  of installation  so I 
think it has acted reasonably here.
Ref: DRN70236642So, although  I can understand how stressful all this was for Mr C; I think  Avivas offer of 
£350 compensation is fair.
my final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023664