K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Virgin Money plc charged them  an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs S had taken a five-year fixed rate with Virgin Money in 2013. In 2018, as the rate 
came to an end, they decided to re-mortgage to another lender, borrowing a further £10,000 
for home improvements. Their broker arranged the new mortgage and they instructed 
solicitors to process it for them.
The solicitors arranged  a completion date of 22 May. The mortgage  was redeemed on that 
day. But this meant Mr and Mrs S paid an ERC  of £4,500. The ERC was only applicable up 
to 1 June  so had Mr and Mrs S waited an extra 10 days, the ERC  wouldnt have been 
charged.
Mr and Mrs S complained. Initially, they complained  to the Legal Ombudsman about  the 
solicitors, but they say that complaint wasnt upheld. They  now complain about Virgin 
Money. They say it isnt fair to charge them an ERC  so close to the expiry date, and when 
theyve made all the payments due. And they say Virgin Money  should  have warned them  
the ERC  was payable  but could have  been  avoided had they waited  a few days.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr and Mrs S asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer from 2013 sets out that an ERC was payable up to 1 June 2018. The 
ERC was set out in the way the regulator requires, so Im satisfied it was clearly  explained  
both how much it was and when it would be payable   to Mr and Mrs S.
The terms and conditions,  therefore, say that the ERC is payable  up to 1 June. Virgin  Money 
was contractually entitled to charge  the ERC up to that date, and to that extent it hasnt  done  
anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative accepts that. But he says it isnt fair to charge the ERC in 
these circumstances,  even if it was entitled  to do so.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S feel that. Ive thought  carefully about what  they say. But 
Im afraid I dont agree that there  are compelling  arguments that mean that I should say 
Virgin Money should in fairness  refund the ERC even though it was entitled  to charge it.
I dont know why 22 May was set as the completion  day. Mr S said in the complaint form that 
date was agreed between Mrs S and the solicitors,  but the solicitors didnt give her a 
breakdown of how the redemption figure  would be made  up. I can see from the redemption 
statement Virgin Money sent that the ERC was included  and separately itemised  so the 
solicitors had that information.
Ref: DRN72902642Virgin Money wouldnt know why that date was selected either. There  might be many  
reasons in individual cases why a particular date is chosen  because of a house purchase 
chain, because money needs  to be drawn down for a specific  purpose by a deadline, or 
many other reasons  but as Virgin Money isnt involved in the process of setting up the new 
mortgage it wouldnt know any of that. I think it acted reasonably  in setting out how much the 
redemption figure  would be, including  the ERC, on the date selected  and leaving it to 
Mr and Mrs S and their representatives  to choose the right date, balancing all the factors 
only they would know about.
Its true that there were  only about 10 days left, and Mr and Mrs S had made  all their 
payments. But an ERC isnt calculated with reference to the cost to the lender of any specific  
individual mortgage being repaid.
The ERC has to be included as a specific amount in the mortgage offer, before the mortgage 
is ever taken out let alone brought to an end. So its impossible for the lender to know what  
its losses might be if this mortgage is ended early,  when  or even whether that might  happen.
Therefore ERCs are calculated across groups of mortgages. The lender wouldnt know  when 
or whether any particular  mortgage would end early. But it can forecast how many  of a 
group, on average, would, and how much, on average, the loss would be. That average 
estimate is then applied to all the mortgages  in the group.
Its for that reason that I dont think it makes a difference in this case that Mr and Mrs S had 
made all their payments.  They paid the mortgage  back before the end date of the ERC. Its 
in the nature of a broad average that some individuals will be at one extreme, and some at 
the other.  But if it wasnt fair for Virgin Money not to charge the ERC in cases at one end of 
the range,  that would put the ERC up overall  for those who do still pay it. Ultimately there 
has to be a cut-off point  somewhere. Mr and Mrs S were close  to that cut-off, but still within 
it.
As I say, I dont know why 22 May was selected.  But Im satisfied Virgin  Money did enough  
to make Mr and Mrs S aware  they would be liable for an ERC  if they redeemed  before 
1 June. And Im satisfied  it did enough to make  their solicitors aware that an ERC would be 
payable on the selected date. The ERC was properly chargeable, and Virgin  Money was 
entitled to charge it. I do understand why Mr and Mrs S are aggrieved that it could have been  
avoided by waiting  a few more days.  But I dont think  theres enough for me to say that 
fairness demands that Virgin  Money refund it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7290264