K820x#14complaint
Ms Y complains  that Calpe Insurance Company Limited is holding her liable after a claim on 
her motor insurance policy and that its holding her responsible  for some costs. She wants  it 
to pay the claim.
background
The named  driver on Ms Ys policy was involved in an accident with another driver.  The 
parties gave conflicting  accounts of what had happened. Calpe investigated the claim and 
settled it on a 50/50 split liability basis. Ms Y didnt claim  for her repairs, but Calpe had to 
pay half the other drivers repair costs. Ms Ys policy excess was £3,000, so she was asked 
to pay £1,052.68.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Calpe 
had reasonably investigated  the claim and settled it as it was entitled  to do by the policy  
terms and conditions. So she didnt think  it had done anything wrong or needed to waive the 
amount it had asked  Ms Y to pay. 
Ms Y replied that she didnt think the named  driver was to blame for the accident. She sent 
us photographs of the cars involved.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms Y is disappointed with Calpes decision, especially as she didnt 
make a claim for her own repairs. I can see that this will have a financial impact  and affect  
her No Claims Bonus.  
The named  driver said the other driver  was overtaking  him when the road narrowed and he 
then pulled  over into his lane and hit Ms Ys car. The other driver said the named driver 
pulled into his lane to overtake a caravan bike and so clipped  his car.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Calpe is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Ms Y to take over,  defend, 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Ms Y has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether  she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making  a decision on liability.  
Ref: DRN78736132Calpe instructed an investigator  to interview the named driver and it considered  his and the 
other drivers  conflicting  accounts. I cant see that there were any independent  witnesses or 
CCTV footage  available. I understand that the police attended but they didnt witness the 
collision. Ms Y provided a video and photographs  that were  taken after the incident, but 
Calpe said they didnt show who was responsible. 
Calpe appointed engineers to look at the damage to the cars and asked its own engineer to 
provide a consistency report. He concluded  that the damage was consistent with either 
sides version of events. I think it was reasonable for Calpe to rely on the engineers expert 
opinion. I havent  seen any further evidence  that should have been considered. 
 
So Calpe considered whether it could defend the claim  if the matter went  to court. And it 
thought that a court would hold both drivers equally liable. And so it thought the best 
possible outcome  was to settle the claim on a 50/50  split liability  basis, without prejudice. 
I think Calpe  reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before making 
its decision on liability. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I 
cant say it did anything  wrong or require it to change its decision.  As the claim was settled 
on a without prejudice basis, Ms Y can pursue the matter further at her own cost if she so 
wishes. 
Ms Ys policy excess is £3,000. This is the first part of claim thats to be paid. Calpe had to 
pay 50% of the other drivers claim and it incurred investigation costs. I think its entitled by 
the policy terms and conditions to reclaim its outlay from Ms Y as this is less than her 
excess. So I cant say it was wrong for Calpe to ask Ms Y to pay £1,052.86 for its outlay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7873613