K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting in 2003 to protect Mrs Js 
mortgage repayments. The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment
cover. She paid a monthly amount  for it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check it was suitable for her. And it had 
to give her enough clear  information so she could make an informed decision whether or not 
to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.
I say this because  Mrs J had a pre-existing medical condition which would not have been
covered by the policy. So it was likely  that Mrs J would not have been able to claim on the
policy when she needed to, and when she expected to be able to. And I cant see Barclays
considered this when it made its recommendation, or that it made this clear to Mrs J.
Ive considered the banks argument that upon acceptance of Mrs Js application  for PPI she 
would have been sent a policy  document that provided comprehensive information on the 
terms and conditions, and that she would have  been  given a number to call if she had any 
queries. But I dont think this evidences that it clearly highlighted that Mrs Js pre-existing 
medical condition  would  most likely  be excluded from cover  at the time Mrs J was making 
her decision  to take out the cover. Or that it took her condition  properly into account when 
making its recommendation.
The bank also asked  for more information  on Mrs Js condition saying it was diagnosed  
many years prior to the sale so may not have prevented her claiming.  But Im not sure why it 
has suggested that as it doesnt  seem there is any such exemption to the exclusion in the 
policy terms and conditions. Mrs J has told us it caused her to take time off work spread out 
over time and given  the nature of her condition  I think its likely she would have been 
concerned it could recur,  and be a reason she would need to claim. So I think  its most likely 
Mrs J wouldnt  have taken out the PPI if shed been  better advised and informed.
It follows I think Mrs J has lost out because of the problems  with this sale.
putting things right
Ref: DRN77487562Barclays should put Mrs J in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Barclays  should:
Pay Mrs J the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off the value 
of the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any commission
already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give
Mrs J a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay compensation to 
Mrs J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7748756