K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc settled a motor  
insurance claim.
background
Mr M is a named driver  on Mrs Ms car insurance  policy. He was involved in a car accident at 
the end of 2018 and RSA declared  his car a total loss. RSA paid a total of £864  to begin with 
but added  a further £12 to reflect changing a deduction of 20% for the car being a previous 
total loss to 10%. 
Mr M thinks this is far too little and says his car was one of just 20 left in the world  and 
believes £4,000  to be a fairer amount. Mr M also kept the vehicle for which  a deduction was 
made from the overall amount  before  paying  the claim.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and during the course of the investigation 
it became apparent that RSA had made  a mistake with the amount it had paid - instead of 
paying an additional £120 RSA mistakenly paid just £12 extra (to reflect  the change  from 
20% to 10% for the total loss marker). The investigator though  a fair outcome was for RSA to 
pay a total of £984, which is what RSA had intended  to do. 
Mr M disagreed and so did RSA.  Mr M thought he should get much more and RSA said even 
though it had made a mistake the investigator hadnt found that the initial  (mistaken)  amount 
paid was unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy,  like most car insurance policies  Ive seen, says RSA will settle  a total loss claim 
for the market value,  and defines  this as:
The cost of replacing  your car with a car of the same make, model,  specification,  mileage 
and age, in the same condition as your car was immediately before the loss or damage you 
are claiming  for.
Given the age of Mrs Ms car the availability of trade guide valuations  is limited. Our 
approach to market  value  is to take into account the motor trade guides and we usually find 
these persuasive as theyre based  on likely selling prices. The range of values is from just 
over £700  to £936. Ive taken into account the fact that Mrs Ms vehicle had previously been 
written-off. We accept that this can put off potential  buyers and indeed  it can negatively  
affect the vehicle  value.  RSA deducted  20% but then changed this to 10% to reflect this and 
I dont think thats  unreasonable in the circumstances. But as RSA accepts it made  an error 
by paying £12 instead of £120. The highest value that the investigator found was £936  which  
is more than the amount RSA has paid so far. But its less than the amount RSA would pay 
by increasing its payment  to correct its original mistake. And its because of this that the 
investigator thought  a fair outcome was £984.
The information Mr M has sent us is for advertised  prices and so not reflective  of the likely  
selling price. But Ive checked and seen  a similar car that is advertised as a previous total 
Ref: DRN73479212loss but with a significantly lower mileage at £1,250. This is similar to the starting point of 
RSAs valuation. So taking this all into account  and the fact that deductions were made for 
Mrs M retaining  the vehicle and the previous total loss marker, Im satisfied £984 is a fair 
reflection of the market value.
my final decision
As Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc had originally intended to pay Mr and Mrs M £984,  
and only didnt because  of a mistake, I conclude that such  an offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should  pay 
Mr and Mrs M £984.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7347921