K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused her request to make  a chargeback for 
several payments  made from her current account  to a holiday club company.
background
Mrs D made  three substantial payments from her current  account  in the period May 2005 
through to November  2006 to a company  running a holiday  club. She also made a further 
payment to a connected company in March 2006.  She and her husband  feel the company 
running the club hasnt delivered  what was promised and it has since  gone  into liquidation. 
Mrs D says she also made a payment with her HSBC credit  card,  but this is the subject of a 
separate complaint and I am only considering the payments made  from her current account.
In February 2017  she asked the bank to make a chargeback. There were some delays in 
dealing with her letter, but in due course  HSBC said that it was too late to make a 
chargeback. She brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld.
She expressed her sympathy with Mrs D, but she didnt think HSBC had done anything  
wrong. It assessed the chargeback request and found  that it was out of time. She further  
explained that chargebacks can only be raised  on debit card transactions,  if a customer paid 
by transferring funds  straight from their bank  account  they can ask their bank to cancel or 
recall the transaction. This is normally only possible if the issue is raised with the bank 
straight away after the transaction took place (probably in a matter  of hours or maybe a 
couple of days  at most) while the funds  are still in the receiving account.
She said it was now too late for HSBC to try and reverse the bank transfer. She thought  
HSBC could have  been clearer in explaining  this to Mrs D, but that said she didnt believe it 
could help Mrs D. Mrs D didnt agree and said she wasnt  aware of the time limits and asked 
that her ignorance  be overlooked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the Card Scheme. It allows  customers  to ask for 
a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services  they've paid for. 
There's no automatic  right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method  of 
getting a refund. The Card Scheme checks the nature of the problem against the possible 
chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the bank feels  that a 
claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.  
The Card  Scheme only accepts claims made  within specified time limits. Claims must be 
made within 120 days  of the transaction, but for services bought to be used in the future the 
date starts when the service is used. However,  a claim must be made  within 540 days of the 
transaction processing date.
Mrs D made  the last of the payments in May 2007  and so her right to make a chargeback 
expired around  November  2008.  Given her request to HSBC was only made in February 
2017, over eight years after the time limit expired I cannot require the bank to pursue a 
Ref: DRN71844792chargeback. It is not responsible for making the decision as to whether a chargeback  
succeeds or not; that falls to the Card  Scheme which is a separate entity. However,  the bank 
is not obliged  to make a chargeback where  it is so far outside the Card Schemes rules.
I appreciate she wasnt aware  of the time limits, but that isnt grounds for ignoring them.  So 
while I have every sympathy with her situation  I cannot say that HSBC has done anything 
materially wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7184479