K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  unfairly refused to cover  
the cost of a number of items  stolen  from his outbuilding. 
background
Mr C has buildings and contents  insurance with Lloyds that includes cover for items  stored  
within his outbuildings. 
In April 2019 Mr C made  a claim under the policy as a number  of items had been stolen from 
his outbuildings, including tools,  a model airplane and a number of component  parts and 
accessories. Lloyds accepted part of the claim  and offered a settlement for Mr Cs tools but it 
said his model aircraft and its accessories werent  covered by the policy. It referred to the 
following exclusion:
What we dont cover
Road vehicles or any other mechanically  propelled or assisted vehicles and toys (including  
mobility scooters)  or any parts or accessories for any of them
Aircraft, caravans, trailers, boats, windsurfers, other watercraft (but not surfboards) and all 
their accessories or associated equipment. 
Mr C disagreed and asked our service  to look into the matter. Our investigator  considered  
the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He was persuaded the exclusion reasonably applied to the 
items Mr C had claimed for, so he didnt think Lloyds was unreasonable  in turning down the 
claim. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his case. He argued that the 
exclusion didnt reasonably apply to his model aircraft. He said the model aircraft was neither 
a vehicle nor a toy. He also disputed that it could  reasonably be classed as an aircraft.  He 
referred to information  from the Civil Aviation Authority which  set out the difference between 
manned aircraft and model aircraft. So the matter  has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, so Id like to explain my reasons for reaching  this decision.  
The issue  for me to determine is whether Mr Cs model  aircraft,  component  parts and 
accessories reasonably fall within Lloyds exclusion set out above. Having carefully 
considered the matter,  Im satisfied they do. 
Ive considered Mr Cs argument that his model  aircraft cant  be classified as a vehicle, and 
Im inclined  to agree. While the policy doesnt define vehicle a dictionary definition  suggests 
its something thats capable of transporting goods  or people. Im satisfied that Mr Cs model 
aircraft wasnt capable  of doing either. 
Ref: DRN73954262But the policy exclusion is broader than just excluding vehicles, it also excludes 
mechanically propelled  or assisted vehicles  and toys. While I can appreciate why Mr C may 
not consider his model aircraft to be a toy, given its significant cost, Ive again considered 
what can reasonably  be considered to be a toy. Again  the policy doesnt define toys, so Ive 
considered a standard dictionary definition. Whilst most definitions  suggest that a toy is an 
object for a child to play with, the definitions Ive considered also suggest that a toy can be 
an object you have  for enjoyment or pleasure.  
I appreciate that Mr C used the model  aircraft  in a competitive  setting, but overall Im 
satisfied it was used  for his pleasure and amusement, rather  than for his work or profession.  
As such,  I consider that for the purposes of the policy  wording Mr Cs model aircraft was a 
mechanically propelled  or assistedtoy and was therefore excluded  from cover.  
  
Ive considered Mr Cs argument that the other items hes claimed  for, such as batteries and 
control equipment,  shouldnt be caught  by the policy exclusion as they have a general 
purpose and arent explicitly  linked to his model  aircraft. But, I think  its important to note that 
a number of the claimed for items had been  added to the model aircraft structure at the time 
they were stolen. So I consider they can reasonably be classed as parts  or accessories. 
The policy exclusion  is clear that these items  are also excluded  from cover,  so I think its 
reasonable for Lloyds to turn down this part of the claim as well. 
Lloyds has confirmed that the remainder  or Mr Cs claim  is on hold pending the outcome of 
this complaint, but that it will complete  the claims assessment once  Mr C is ready for it to. 
Overall, I dont  consider  Lloyds has acted unfairly  in declining the aspects of Mr Cs claim 
that relate to his model aircraft or its components. Its confirmed it will now review  the 
remainder of the claim, which  it should now do.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Lisa De Noronha
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7395426