K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way in which Barclays Bank UK plc handled  their joint 
current account and, in particular, its closure.  
background 
Mr and Mrs W both had accounts with Barclays. The bank took the decision to close  Mr Ws 
accounts and gave him notice that it was doing  so. The bank suggested that he be added to 
Mrs Ws account and her account become a joint one. He and Mrs W agreed  and the 
account was converted.  
Barclays had however closed Mr Ws accounts because it no longer wanted to retain  its 
relationship with him. It therefore put the joint account under review and, in the meantime, 
blocked it. It didnt  tell Mr and Mrs W that it had done that, and Mrs W only found  out when a 
card payment was declined. 
The funds in the account were released  just over a week after it was blocked, and it was 
then closed. Mr and Mrs W complained about  the banks actions. Barclays accepted that it 
had wrongly suggested adding Mr W to Mrs Ws account and offered them  £150  in 
recognition of the inconvenience that had caused. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  consider  that went far enough and referred the matter  to this service,  
where one of our investigators considered it. She thought  that an appropriate  level of 
compensation was a little higher  £250  and recommend that as a settlement. Barclays 
agreed with the investigators opinion, but Mr and Mrs W didnt. They asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, I agree with 
the investigator that £250 is a fair payment in this case. 
Banks are generally entitled to decide for themselves  whether  or not to provide, or to 
continue to provide,  banking  facilities to customers. We wont  generally  intervene in that 
exercise of their commercial judgment,  as long as its exercised legitimately. In this case,  
however, I think Barclays placed  Mr and Mrs W in a position where the newly-created joint 
account would be closed; they shouldnt  have been in that position. 
The bank had taken  the decision to exit its relationship with Mr W, but not with Mrs W. It 
should not therefore have  suggested adding Mr W to her account,  or agreed to it. By doing  
so, it placed Mrs W at risk of having  what had been  her account closed. 
Mr Ws accounts had already been closed. The investigator noted  that he had, therefore, 
been provided with banking  facilities for a little longer than would have been  the case. 
Against that, of course,  he then also had to deal with a further  account  closure.  And overall 
his position might have  been easier if Mrs W had kept a sole account. I dont entirely  share 
the view then that, overall, Mr W benefited from being added  to the account; there was a 
detriment as well. 
Ref: DRN71803532Mrs W however  had her relationship with Barclays ended as a result. There was no real 
benefit to her. I do note however that she has other banking  arrangements, and I must take 
that into account in deciding  what I consider to be a fair outcome.
Mr and Mrs W provided details of additional costs which they say they incurred as a result  of 
the banks actions. Im not persuaded however that they were directly linked. In saying  that, I 
have in mind in particular that the money in the joint account was released  within  a few days  
of it being blocked and that Mrs W at least had other banking  arrangements. 
I do agree  however that Barclays initial offer was a little on the low side;  I agree with the 
investigator that a payment of £250 would be more appropriate.         
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK plc should pay Mr and Mrs W 
£250 to resolve  this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7180353