K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policies for their mortgage and further  advances.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in late 1999. They  then bought further 
policies in order cover  their further advances,  which they took out between 2000 and 2003. 
Mr and Mrs F paid for their PPI with regular monthly  premiums, which didnt  attract interest. 
The policies covered the mortgage and further advance  payments in case  Mr F was off work 
sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided that these policies were  not mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at how Mr and Mrs F applied for each PPI policy. I can see that for each 
policy, they signed and submitted an application form specifically for PPI, separately to 
applying for the mortgage or further  advances themselves. From the way the forms were set 
out, it wouldve  been clear they were applying for PPI  it wasnt hidden  in the small print.  Mr 
and Mrs F chose  what type of cover  they wanted and confirmed that Mr F was eligible  for the 
insurance. And I can see they signed direct debit  mandates  to pay for the PPI, from when 
they first took it out and each time they increased their cover. Similarly, these direct debits 
were separate to the ones  for the mortgage or further advances  the PPIs  cost wasnt  part 
and parcel of the lending. Overall, I think that Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs F aware they had a 
choice about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it each time  though  I can understand 
if they no longer  recall  doing so given  just how long ago the sales were.
Lloyds recommended PPI for Mr F, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based  on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at each  sale, I think it was. For example, Mr F doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policies key exclusions or limitations. And from 
what hes told us, it doesnt look like he had any other significant  protection  in place  if he was 
off sick or lost his job, which potentially  left Mr and Mrs F at serious risk. Its worth bearing in 
mind that Mr F was the sole earner, and if Mr and Mrs F fell behind  on their mortgage  or 
further advance  payments,  they risked losing  their home. So the PPI couldve really been  
useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN71359192Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs F about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs F chose to take out each policy, which 
implies they wanted  this type of cover. As I said above, Mr F wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policies didnt  cover, and the PPI couldve really  been useful in case  
something went wrong. Then if Mr or Mrs Fs circumstances changed, they could cancel the 
policies at any time without a penalty.  So overall, I dont  think  that better information was 
likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135919