K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the annuity he bought from The Royal  London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited. 
background
In 2008, Mr S used  his pension pot to buy an annuity from Royal London (trading as 
Co-operative Investments at the time). Hes unhappy  that he wasnt able to take his entire  
pension as a lump sum. And hes unhappy  that he cant  now covert  his annuity into a lump 
sum.
Our investigator didnt  think Royal London had done  anything  wrong.  Mr S disagrees so the 
matter has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.
There are two main elements to this complaint. Firstly, Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt able 
to take his entire pension (which was relatively small) as a lump sum when he bought  his 
annuity in 2008. Unfortunately for Mr S, pension rules at the time meant he wouldnt have 
been allowed  to do this. There were rules  in place that allowed small pensions to be paid as 
a lump sum (known as trivial commutation). But the rules only allowed for this from the age 
of 60. Mr S was 52 at the time. So Im satisfied Royal London treated Mr S fairly.
Mr Ss second area of complaint  is that pension rules have recently  changed and he says 
this means he can now cash in his annuity for a lump sum. Mr S is correct that the 
government was thinking about  reforming the market to allow people to cash in their 
annuities in this way. However, the government ultimately decided  against this  largely  
because it didnt think such  a move would be in the best interest of consumers. This change  
of heart  is unfortunate for Mr S. Even so, I cant hold Royal London responsible  for the fact 
that the market  didnt  develop in the way he would have wanted.
Mr S may also be thinking of the pension  freedom  changes that came  into effect in 2015.  
Broadly speaking, these  changes eased the restrictions that previously resulted in many 
people having  to buy an annuity.  However, this doesnt change things for Mr S because he 
took his pension in 2008 when the restrictions in relation to his retirement  options were  still in 
place. I appreciate its frustrating for Mr S that he took his pension at a time when people in 
his position had fewer options. But that doesnt  mean Royal London did anything  wrong.
Mr S is also concerned that Royal London may have offered trivial commutation to other 
customers and says its decision to not now offer him a lump sum differs from others  in the 
insurance industry. He thinks Royal London should  reconsider. But cashing in annuities isnt 
widespread. More importantly, an annuity  is a lifetime contract that both parties  agreed  to. It 
cant now be unwound unilaterally. So even if (and its a big if) Royal London has in the past 
agreed to cash in an annuity  like Mr Ss, it would have taken the agreement of both parties  
the customer and Royal London  for this to happen.  With that in mind, if Royal  London 
doesnt want to swap Mr Ss annuity  for a lump  sum,  I dont think it would be fair for me to 
force it to do so.
Ref: DRN78775072 
I do appreciate how frustrating this is for Mr S, and I do recognise the financial position  he is 
in. But for the reasons given above, I wont be upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.  
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7877507