K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added  
interest fees and charges on their overdraft while they were  experiencing financial difficulty.
background
One of our investigators  looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. He thought  that Halifax should 
refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to Mr and Mrs Fs account after January 
2014 as Halifaxs  contact notes indicated that Mr and Mrs F contacted it for help managing  
their overdraft at that stage.
Mr and Mrs F accepted our investigators assessment. Halifax disagreed  and eventually  
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  In summary, it said that it did provide assistance, when 
it was sought  in January 2014,  by waiving some unplanned overdraft fees and suggesting             
Mr and Mrs F register for internet  banking. It also said that it was Mr and Mrs Fs 
responsibility to monitor  their account.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that our investigators  proposed resolution isnt unreasonable.  Id like 
to explain why this is the case.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs F contacted  Halifax for assistance with their overdraft. So 
while I dont agree with Halifaxs  assertion that it had no responsibility to monitor                     
Mr and Mrs Fs account and how their overdraft was being used, Mr and Mrs F did in any 
event get in contact  and ask for assistance  as they were struggling in January 2014. And in 
these circumstances,  I dont think that it was fair, reasonable and proportionate to continue 
charging further fees a month  later without establishing some kind of repayment strategy for 
the outstanding balance.
Ive seen what Halifax has said about  certain  transactions which  appear on Mr and Mrs Fs 
account statements. But the direct debit was a contractual commitment. And I dont think that 
it was the reason why Mr and Mrs F were habitually overdrawn. As for the other  
transactions, I think that Halifax ought  to have  investigated whether  Mr and Mrs F continually  
making transactions of this kind would more  likely  than not have impaired their ability  to 
repay their overdraft within a reasonable period of time  after all Halifax  itself says that 
overdrafts are only meant to be used  for emergency  borrowing.  
So Halifax  appears  to accept that overdrafts  arent  a suitable  means of managing  persistent 
indebtedness and in these circumstances I think it fair, reasonable and proportionate to 
expect Halifax  to  have  taken action. I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Halifax  to 
ignore this as well as the previous request  for help and continue  adding interest, fees and 
charges without reassessing Mr and Mrs Fs ability to repay their overdraft within  a 
reasonable period of time.
Finally, Halifax  has said that the returned  direct debits werent for its payments and it was for 
Mr and Mrs Fs other creditors to discuss these missed payments. I think that this somewhat 
misses the point here. 
Ref: DRN74188482The returned  direct  debits  especially the mortgage  payment   was a sign that                  
Mr and Mrs Fs finances might have been  distressed. Indeed  Id refer Halifax to CONC 1 
which sets out the regulators  guidance on recognising when a borrower  might  be in financial 
difficulty. 
In these circumstances, it is fair, reasonable and proportionate to expect Halifax  to have 
looked at whether the visible signs that Mr and Mrs F may have been  experiencing financial  
difficulty meant that they might have difficulty repaying its debt  the overdraft  thats the 
subject of this case. Our investigator wasnt suggesting that Halifax needed to inform           
Mr and Mrs Fs creditors of any potential financial  difficulty  or that it needed to take steps to 
make those debts manageable. That was a matter for Mr and Mrs Fs other creditors  to 
address.
Having carefully considered everything, Im partially upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and 
Halifax should put things right as set out below. 
fair compensation  what  Halifax should do to put things  right for Mr and Mrs F.
Having carefully considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  for Halifax to put things right in the following way:
rework Mr and Mrs Fs current overdraft balance so that all the interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from February  2014 onwards are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr and Mrs F to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. It can also backdate a default  on Mr and Mrs Fs credit file to February 
2014 should it wish to do so; 
OR
if the effect of removing all interest  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr and Mrs F. If no outstanding balance  remains after all adjustments 
have been made then Halifax  should  remove all adverse information  from               
Mr and Mrs Fs credit file.
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments  from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN74188483my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Bank of 
Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  should  put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418848