K820x#14complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr C bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a loan. HSBC says it cant 
now be sure how the loan and PPI were  sold to Mr C. Mr C says he applied  for the loan and 
PPI policy  in a meeting  and I think this is most likely  to have been the case. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £588.36  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  Including  the 
interest added  to the PPI policy, its total cost was £676.47, with the PPI adding £27.84 to the 
monthly loan repayment. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It also provided  some additional hospitalisation and personal 
accident cover. It offered  to repay  Mr Cs monthly  loan repayment for the remaining term of 
the loan in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr C was self-employed as a carpenter.  He has told us he could have sold a 
rental property he owned  or received financial support from his wife if hed been  unable to 
work. Mr C has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  
HSBC has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 2003.
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representative 
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr C about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN75139782Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN75139783Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the 
Banking Ombudsman  might have been  expected to reach in relation  to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN75139784Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Did Mr C know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
HSBC no longer has any of the actual paperwork from the time - this isnt that surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place and the loan ended.  But HSBC has provided sample 
copies of a loan agreement and a Creditor Protection Declaration (CPD) which  it says was 
being used in branch sales at this time. So I think its reasonable to assume that its most 
likely these were the type of forms which Mr C would have been given when he took out the 
loan and PPI. 
I can see that Mr C would have had to sign the separate CPD document  confirming he had 
decided to buy PPI. And hed also would have had to sign at the bottom of the declaration. 
Having decided this form was most likely  to have  been used, I think HSBC  did make  it clear  
to him the PPI was a separate and optional product. By signing this document  and the loan 
agreement which detailed  the PPI costs, I think its more likely than not Mr C consented to 
have PPI added to his loan knowing it was optional and without undue pressure. But I can 
understand why he might  not remember this now, as this sale took place a long time ago.
Did HSBC provide advice?
HSBC says it cant now be sure whether advice was given on this sale. And Mr C doesnt 
seem to have a clear  recollection of what happened  during the meeting. But, having carefully 
considered the very limited information now available, I think  its most likely that this was an 
advised sale.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr C with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr C. It seems  Mr C cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mr Cs financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mr C would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  HSBC considered whether Mr C had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN75139785-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr C had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Cs ability  to continue to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time. Mr C says he would have  been able to use the proceeds  
from a house  sale in these circumstances. But I dont think this course  of action 
would have been likely to have provided  the necessary funds  in the timescales  
needed. And although he also says his wife could  have provided financial support  in 
need, I dont think  this could have been guaranteed  to have provided the same level 
of security as this policy.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr C.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Cs self-employment or occupation  which would have made it 
significantly more difficult for him to claim.  And he hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  his ability  to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr C cancelled the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mr C had plans  to repay the loan early.  The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr C sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C given a broad  description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr C was unable  
to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mr C would have  taken out the policy  without any sense  of what  
the policy was. And I think Mr C knew that the single premium  being added to the loan was 
££588.36 and the monthly cost was £27.84  (as this information was, in my view,  sufficiently  
clear on the loan agreement I think Mr C would have been required to sign).
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total combined cost of the loan and PPI 
policy over the full term of the loan - or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr C 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr C. Im not persuaded HSBC gave  Mr C all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN75139786Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to [him/her/them]. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr C agreed to take out 
the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr C. Im not persuaded HSBC gave  Mr C all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN75139787value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings have on Mr C? To what  extent did Mr C suffer loss or 
damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mr C would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Ref: DRN75139788Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr C knew  he was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £27.84 a month, it doesnt appear HSBC told him the 
total combined cost of the policy and the loan including the interest.  Having said that, I dont 
think it likely  the missing  cost information  would have affected Mr Cs decision to buy the 
policy in his circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr C would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr C would get back  in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Cs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr C knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;
 
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr C repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr C to have done so; 
and
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to [him/her/them] 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he would  have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions. And theres  no evidence to suggest he intended, to repay  the 
loan early. So, I still think he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr C unemployed, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr C 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Cs representative says the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN75139789That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular circumstances of 
the complaint,  there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr C compensation,  as that would  put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7513978