K820x#14complaint
Mrs S and Mr T complain  that ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) cancelled cover  for
Mrs S pre-existing medical conditions under their annual, multi-trip, travel insurance  policy.
ERV is the underwriter of Mrs S and Mr Ts policy. Reference to ERV includes reference to 
its agents.
Mrs S made a separate complaint about the business that arranged her policy.  
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of
11 February 2020, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that ERV had acted in accordance  with 
the policy terms and conditions and hadnt  acted unfairly in cancelling  cover for Mrs S 
pre-existing conditions.  
responses to my provisional  decision
ERV said that it had nothing further  to add. Mrs S commented on her experience  with the 
business that arranged her policy.  She was disappointed that my provisional decision 
differed from the investigators view and that the cavalier decision to suddenly withdraw 
cover for pre-existing conditions could be upheld. Mrs S says that she was told that a claim 
would have been honoured. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  is confined  to this complaint about  ERV.  Mrs S complaint about the business 
that arranged  her policy has already been dealt with separately, so I make no comment on 
that. 
I do appreciate that Mrs S is disappointed with my provisional decision but, for the reasons I 
explained, I dont  think that ERV treated her unfairly  in cancelling cover  for pre-existing 
conditions. 
Given that neither  ERV nor Mrs S and Mr T have provided me with anything further on the 
substance of the complaint against ERV, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think that ERV 
treated Mrs S unfairly.  
Ref: DRN72521172my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S and Mr T but for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision and above, I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72521173extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs S and Mr T complain  that ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) cancelled cover  for
Mrs S pre-exiting medical conditions under their annual, multi-trip, travel insurance  policy.
ERV is the underwriter of Mrs S and Mr Ts policy. Reference to ERV includes reference 
to its agents.
Mrs S made a separate complaint about the broker.
background
In December  2017, Mrs S and Mr Ts annual, multi-trip, travel  insurance policy renewed 
automatically. The certificate showed three  declared  medical  conditions  for Mrs S.
In May and June  2018,  Mrs S booked two trips. Later in June  2018,  Mrs S contacted ERV to 
tell it that she had been under investigation for undiagnosed foot pain, which  shed had for 
approximately six months.  ERV subsequently  told Mrs S that it could no longer provide 
cover for her pre-existing medical conditions.
ERV said that Mrs S could either continue with the policy and travel without cover  for her
pre-existing conditions or anything medically related to them, or cancel the policy and have 
a proportionate refund of the premium. Mrs S chose to cancel the policy.
Mrs S says that she was left without  cover under the ERV policy  for two trips. For one 
trip, she had no cover  at all and for the other,  she arranged alternative  insurance. Mrs S 
wants compensation for the trouble she was caused by not having cover.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She said that ERV hadnt applied its 
terms fairly or correctly.  The investigator  said that ERV shouldnt have cancelled cover  for 
Mrs S declared pre-existing conditions. She said that ERV could have either excluded 
cover for anything related  to the foot pain or charged  an additional premium to provide 
cover.
The investigator said that as events had moved  on, she couldnt ask ERV to put Mrs S 
back into the position she wouldve been in if it hadnt made an error. She thought  that 
compensation of £125 was fair.
Mrs S accepted the investigators recommendations and said that whilst she wasnt 
unhappy with the suggested  level of compensation, she thought  that £150 would be more  
reasonable. Mrs S reiterated that she was greatly  disappointed and distressed by ERVs 
decision to exclude  all existing medical  conditions.
ERV didnt accept  the investigators recommendations. It said, in summary:
Mrs S knew about the undiagnosed condition for some  time before 
booking both trips.
Its difficult  to underwrite a risk for an undiagnosed medical  condition,  so there 
must be a diagnosis so that it can accurately  underwrite the risk.
Ref: DRN72521174Conditions that appear to be unrelated  can be related  and it wouldnt expect 
the insured to know for sure whether  a new, undiagnosed condition is 
unrelated to their other  existing  conditions.
Its approach gives the insured the greatest protection, as its clear  what  is 
and isnt covered.
If the undiagnosed  condition had been  known about at renewal, all cover would 
have been excluded from the renewal  date.
In the circumstances  here, it offered Mrs S the options of either continuing  with 
the policy and travelling without cover  for her pre-existing conditions or 
anything medically  related  to them, or cancelling the policy and having a 
proportionate refund of the premium.
If it had agreed to continue to cover Mrs S pre-existing conditions  but not the 
new, undiagnosed condition, it would have broken  its own underwriting  
guidance.
As Mrs S had an undiagnosed  medical  condition, it dealt with her in the 
same way that it would have dealt  with any other  insured person.
Mrs S made her complaint against  ERV after her complaint  against the 
broker was rejected.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs S in particular has very strong feelings about this matter. However,  I 
trust that neither she nor Mr T will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what  I 
consider the central issue. I need  to decide whether ERV acted  both in accordance  with 
the policy terms and conditions and fairly in withdrawing cover  for Mrs S pre-existing 
conditions after she told it about an undiagnosed  medical condition.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy.  The relevant terms 
and conditions are as follows:
General Conditions  applying to all sections
[]
3. It is your responsibility to ensure you have  told us about any change  in your health,  
or medical  status  before you depart  on each  trip and throughout the period of cover
Ref: DRN72521175Medical Declaration
[]
The insurance will also NOT cover  you for any of your pre-existing medical  conditions 
whether diagnosed or not, if you have  any undiagnosed symptoms  that require attention, or 
investigation in the future  (that is symptoms for which you are awaiting 
investigations/consultations, or awaiting results  of investigations, where the underlying  
cause has not been established), or are awaiting any medical procedure, surgery,  
radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or dialysis.
did ERV act in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly?
I think that ERV acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions and that it didnt  
treat Mrs S unfairly in cancelling cover  for her pre-existing conditions after notification of 
an undiagnosed condition. Ill explain why:
Mrs S was obliged to tell ERV about changes to her health, which she did in 
June2018. Ive listened to the phone call. Mrs S told ERV that she was under 
investigation for undiagnosed foot pain that shed  had for approximately six 
months, that shed had an x-ray and ultrasound  treatment and was going to go 
back to the hospital in July 2018,  possibly for cortisone injections.
As Mrs S foot pain was undiagnosed,  ERV was entitled to cancel cover for 
her pre- existing conditions under the term Ive set out above.  Theres nothing  
in that provision which requires the new, undiagnosed condition  to be related  
to the pre-existing conditions. Indeed, as the new condition was undiagnosed 
at that point, it wasnt  known whether it was related  to Mrs S pre-existing 
conditions or not.
Mrs S foot pain required attention and future  investigation. She was also 
waiting for a possible  medical procedure (cortisol injections). ERV was entitled 
to withdraw cover for all of Mrs S pre-existing  conditions under the term Ive 
set out above.
Its been  suggested that the term upon  which ERV relied only applies on the 
initial sale or renewal but thats  not the case. Mrs S was obliged  to tell ERV 
about changes  to her health throughout the term of the policy and can make a 
medical declaration  at any time.
I dont think that ERV treated Mrs S unfairly  in relying on that term. An insurer 
needs to rate the risk of any cover it offers. Its very difficult  to do that where 
theres an undiagnosed medical  condition. Thats  because it doesnt know what 
that might entail and whether its related to any pre-existing  condition  or not.
Ive seen that ERV followed its own underwriting process in cancelling Mrs S 
cover for pre-existing conditions in the circumstances  that arose  here. I dont 
think that it acted  unfairly in doing so.
my provisional decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S and Mr T but, for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont propose 
to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN7252117