K821x£15complaint
Mr P complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr P had seven loans from Satsuma between August 2014 and June 2016 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment* Due Repaid
1 7 Aug 2014 £300 13w £140.01 7 Nov 2014 18 Oct 2014
Early
2 13 May 2016 £490 26w £156.39 11 Nov 2016 16 May 2016
Cancelled
3 16 May 2016 £800 26w £255.32 18 Nov 2016 20 May 2016
Cancelled
4 25 May 2016 £800 39w £176.89 24 Feb 2017 8 Jun 2016
Cancelled
5 8 Jun 2016 £600 34w £152.19 3 Feb 2017 9 Jun 2016
Cancelled
6 9 Jun 2016 £500 39w £110.57 10 Mar 2017 10 Jun 2016
Cancelled
7 10 Jun 2016 £500 47w £91.74 5 May 2017 Outstanding
Sold
* Average scheduled monthly repayment over the term of the loan
Mr P says Satsuma should  have  done  better checks before it lent to him. He says it allowed 
him to borrow numerous times despite the fact he had multiple other loans and a gambling 
addiction.
Satsuma says it asked  Mr P about his income  and expenditure and checked his credit file 
before it approved each of the applications.  It says it adjusted Mr Ps declared expenditure 
upwards as a result  of what it saw on his credit  file, but it still found each of the loans to be 
affordable to him.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. He said that by loan 4 
he thought proportional checks would have  shown Mr P was having  problems  managing his 
money as he was spending large  amounts on gambling. He added that, by loan 7, the 
pattern of borrowing itself suggested Mr P had become  reliant on short-term lending so was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loans. Our adjudicator recommended  Satsuma 
should refund interest and charges on loans 4 to 7 (plus 8% statutory interest)  and remove 
negative information  about loans 4 to 6 from Mr Ps credit file. He said it should  also remove 
loan 7 from Mr Ps credit  file in its entirety.
Neither Mr P, nor Satsuma, responded to the adjudicators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN73618672Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loan 1
As this was Mr Ps first loan with Satsuma,  and Satsuma asked for income  and expenditure 
information and checked his credit  file, I dont consider  it needed to carry out further checks. 
There was nothing in the available information that suggested Mr P was in financial 
difficulties, so I cant conclude it was wrong  to approve loan 1.
Loans 2 and 3
It was 19 months before  Mr P applied for his second  loan with Satsuma, so it was entitled to 
consider the application  as part of new loan chain.  For this, and loan 3, Satsuma asked  Mr P 
about income and expenditure and checked his credit file and I cant  see there was anything 
in the information that would have indicated the loans were unaffordable  to Mr P.
Ref: DRN73618673Loans 4 to 6
By the time Mr P applied  for loan 4, hed cancelled both loans 2 and 3 and applied  for the 
higher amount of £800 to be repaid  over a longer term of 39 weeks.  Given  hed told Satsuma 
that his disposable income  was almost £1,900 per month, I think  this attempt to reduce his 
monthly repayments should have prompted  Satsuma to do better checks.
For loan 4 onwards,  I consider Satsuma should  have carried out a full financial  review as 
Mr Ps application history suggested  he may have been in financial difficulties. Had it done  
so, it would have  seen that not only was Mr P using other short-term lenders, but he was 
also gambling a significant amount of money  each month.
So I dont  find Satsuma  should have approved any of loans 4 to 6.
Loan 7
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
Loan 7 was Mr Ps sixth application in quick succession and his pattern of borrowing 
and cancelling  loans  was erratic. So Satsuma ought  to have realised it was more  
likely than not Mr P was having problems managing his money;
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he wanted to borrow from 
Satsuma. Loan 7 was applied for about  a month  after loan 2, and it was for roughly 
the same  amount.  But the borrowing period was extending each time which  should  
have suggested  to Satsuma that he couldnt  afford the higher repayments.
I think that Mr P lost out because Satsuma continued to approve his loan applications. I think 
its likely  that the sheer number of loan applications  in such a short  period had negative 
implications on Mr Ps ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 7 and Satsuma should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma Loans) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr P paid on loans 4 to 7;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 7, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr P; 
Arrange to repay any portion  of the sum due to the third party that is made  up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
Ref: DRN73618674Pay Mr P interest and charges he has already paid to the third party plus 8% interest 
simple per annum  on each amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
Remove any negative  information about loans 4 to 6 from Mr Ps credit file.
The number of loans  taken by loan 7 means any information  recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 7 should  be removed from Mr Ps credit  file once 
the loan has been  repaid;
Request the third party to remove  any information it may have recorded about loan 7 
once the loan has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Satsuma 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7361867