K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr G. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. Lloyds doesnt  know when the sale of the 
PPI took place, but the credit card account  ran from 1982 to 2000.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
The sale took place  at least 19 years ago and possibly almost 37 years ago. So, not 
surprisingly, there are no documents surviving  about the sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened so many years ago when the 
PPI started. Ive borne in mind these difficulties  in the evidence  when considering  the case 
and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr G and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I dont have any evidence that Lloyds failed  to make Mr G aware  that the PPI was 
optional.
Lloyds probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr G, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Gs employer  sick pay 
lasted. And it would have  paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy 
pay, so leaving  Mr G more financially secure for longer. And Mr G has said he didnt 
have savings to fall back on. So, overall, the PPI was potentially  useful. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds  gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mr G.
Ref: DRN74777102Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  8 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7477710