K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them  a packaged  bank 
account which it called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out an URCA  in 2007. The fee was £10 a month. 
The URCA benefits included mobile phone insurance, worldwide  family  travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover, interest  and fee free overdrafts  of up to £300 and 
better rates for higher overdrafts; and £50 cashback  on loans of over £5000.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs S disagree so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr and Mrs S were aware the URCA was optional and 
whether they were  given a clear choice  in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that they were. I say this because  they had previously had a 
fee free bank  account with Bank of Scotland for many years.  So, although they say they 
were pressured into taking the URCA, I think its more likely than not that they were just 
being advised to take it and they knew they could have an account without a fee. And Mr 
and Mrs S have signed the application  form for the account. So I think  Mr and Mrs S were 
aware they had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Mr and Mrs S to take it, 
but Mr and Mrs S says it did. Ive decided  to look at this complaint as an advised  sale as it is 
to Mr and Mrs Ss advantage and doesnt affect  the outcome of my decision. So, Bank of 
Scotland needed to provide Mr and Mrs S with sufficient information  about the URCA  to 
make an informed choice.  And in recommending  the URCA, it also needed to take adequate 
steps to ensure that the URCA  was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the URCA was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs S and they had clearly been told about  the account. I say this because  Bank  of 
Scotland has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs S took immediate advantage of the £50 
cashback benefit from the URCA when they took an £8000  loan at the same  time as the 
URCA. This would have  covered Mr and Mrs Ss fee for over 5 months. Mr and Mrs S 
subsequently made  extensive use of the overdraft facility benefits on the account.  And 
theyve said that when they took out the URCA they were told about the breakdown  
insurance, travel insurance and mobile  phone insurance but they were paying for these with 
other providers. Even so, all of these other policies could  have  been  cancelled by Mr and 
Mrs S and the cover provided by the URCA.  And as Mr and Mrs S knew  the account was 
Ref: DRN73970762optional, they could have closed the account whenever they wished to, but didnt for several 
years. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said that at the time of the sale there was nothing  about their personal  
circumstances that would stop them taking  advantage of the URCAs benefits. They 
complain that they didnt  use the insurance  benefits, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
they couldnt have used  the benefits if theyd  needed to make a claim.
I note that Mr and Mrs S have complained that later in their usage of the URCA, Bank  of 
Scotland refused them a loan and reduced  their overdraft limit from £3000  to £650.  But Bank 
of Scotland was entitled to do this as the automatic granting of a loan and/or any overdraft 
level over £300  were not benefits of the URCA.  Mr and Mrs S also say that they werent 
informed of the reduction in the overdraft  limit at the time. But Bank of Scotland  says it did 
inform Mr and Mrs S of the reduction,  and I have no reason to say its more  likely than not 
that it didnt.
So in my view Mr and Mrs S knew they had a choice about the URCA and decided  to take it, 
and the URCA was suitable for them so they have not lost out as result  of anything Bank of 
Scotland may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7397076