K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that TSB Bank Plc didnt treat him fairly  when he was suffering from financial 
hardship. He says the poor service led to him selling  his house, which then in turn meant  he 
lost £15,000 in equity, incurred a £5,000  early  repayment charge (ERC) and lost custody of 
his son.
background
Mr L took out this mortgage with TSB in April 2016  on an interest rate that was fixed  until 
April 2021. He borrowed £135,000 on a repayment basis  over a 21-year term. 
In October  2017 Mr L contacted TSB to say he was struggling financially. He said hed 
stopped work in August  2016 and been  a single parent since October  2016. He said his 
parents had been paying the mortgage  for him. After  looking at Mr Ls income  and 
expenditure TSB said that as Mr L was running  in a deficit  every month its normal  
forbearance options (such  as a term extension)  couldnt be offered as they werent 
affordable.
Mr L contacted TSB again in May 2018 as his parents were now struggling to help him; he 
said hed be putting  the house on the market shortly. Mr L and TSB discussed  applying for 
the Department of Work  and Pensions  (DWP)  Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI), and it 
was agreed that Mr L wouldnt  make  a mortgage  payment  for May and June, on the 
understanding that the missed payments would be shown on Mr Ls credit  file.
On 16 July Mr L phoned TSB to ask if it had received the SMI form hed sent in. TSB said it 
hadnt received  it, and on 20 July Mr L said hed get another copy  sent in. On 24 July Mr L 
said again that hed be putting his property on the market. And then on 26 July TSB  having 
finally received the SMI form  sent the completed  paperwork off to the DWP.
After being on the market  since the summer  of 2018, the house sold earlier  this year and 
Mr L repaid his mortgage. As he had a fixed rate product he incurred an ERC.
Mr L complained to TSB, saying TSB had lost his SMI form which  led to him having  to sell 
his property. He also complained that hed been  harassed by TSB sending  him letters about 
his arrears. TSB apologised for sending Mr L four letters about his arrears in seven days,  
and it paid £400 compensation for that. But it didnt uphold the other parts of his complaint,  
saying it hadnt  initially received the SMI form and when it did it sent the form off to the DWP 
in good time.
Our investigator said TSBs offer was fair for the four letters  it sent in quick  succession, but 
didnt uphold  the rest of the complaint. He said there was nothing  to show TSB had received 
the SMI form and misplaced it, and it was more likely delayed  in the post. Mr L didnt agree 
so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ref: DRN70432552This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties. Im satisfied thats  
what the investigator did in Mr Ls case. Insofar as our investigator  didnt agree with him on 
the outcome of the complaint, that isnt in itself indicative of bias, however unwelcome Mr L 
found his conclusions. 
I understand Mr L was concerned that issues TSB had with its computer  systems  led to it 
losing his SMI form. Ive considered this point carefully but Im not persuaded by it. The 
notes show Mr L phoned TSB on a Monday  to ask if it had received the form hed posted the 
previous week. TSB checked and said it hadnt  received the form at that time. As the form 
wasnt sent by a tracked method we cant say exactly what happened to it, but Ive no reason 
to disbelieve  TSB when  it said the form only turned up later. 
Mr L says he then phoned further  times to check if the form had been received and was told 
it hadnt. He also says that the DWP didnt  receive  the form and wants  evidence TSB sent it 
to the DWP.  Whilst I understand Mr L doesnt believe TSB and wants evidence the form was 
sent to the DWP Im satisfied that the form was sent. Theres  no reason for TSB to lie about 
that when it could quite easily have said it still hadnt  received the form Mr L had sent in (as it 
had when Mr L had previously called).
In a call on 24 July Mr L told TSB that hed resend the form by recorded delivery, and that in 
any event his property  was going  on the market by 10 August. But it seems  that second  form 
was never  sent in by Mr L. As we were only a week or so on at that point not much time had 
been lost and it would have been  easy enough for a replacement form to have been sent in 
by Mr L if that was what he really wanted to do rather than sell his house. But instead it 
seems hed made the decision  to sell, and he told TSB he was confident that his property 
would sell quickly. Im not persuaded the only reason  Mr L sold his property was because of 
that one DWP form, which could easily have been  resolved.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr L is the one bringing the complaint against  
TSB, to uphold the complaint Mr Ls version  needs  to be more likely than TSBs version; not 
just as likely . And having considered everything  I cant say Mr Ls version  is anything  more 
than just as likely.
Once the mortgage was in arrears TSB was entitled  to take steps  to recover the money 
owed to it. Contacting  Mr L to discuss the level of arrears on the account is a legitimate 
action that TSB was entitled to take.  Ive looked at the level of contact on the account  and 
I cant say that TSB treated Mr L unfairly   or harassed him  when doing so, other than the 
seven-day period  at the start of July 2018  that TSB has already paid £400 compensation for. 
TSB has an obligation to keep Mr L informed about  the status of his account, so I cant  say it 
did anything wrong  when it issued the other  arrears  letters to him. Having considered 
everything Im satisfied the £400 compensation paid by TSB is reasonable and so I make no 
other order or award  for that.
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr Ls situation was anything but temporary.  Theres no doubt  Mr Ls 
gone through very difficult times. The pressure to make his mortgage payments against  such  
a backdrop must have  been immense for Mr L. But my impartiality means I must also have 
regard for TSBs point  of view. 
Ref: DRN70432553TSB can only agree to a forbearance plan if its affordable. Mr Ls outgoings were higher 
than his income and there was no immediate likelihood of that changing. So whatever TSB 
offered would be classed as unaffordable, other  than for Mr L to not pay anything  at all. 
Mr Ls mortgage was already  on a fairly  low interest  rate, and a term extension  wouldnt 
have made  a huge difference  in the monthly  repayment due. Whilst a switch to interest-only 
is often requested by consumers, all that does is move the problem  further down the line 
unless its a very short term plan (i.e. for a month  or two) to cover a shortfall  in income where  
theres a guaranteed improvement due shortly. In May 2018  TSB agreed to accept  no 
payments for May and June, and then from July it accepted just the contractual mortgage 
payment (without  anything extra towards  the arrears),  and that seems  fair in all the 
circumstances.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our terms of reference to comment  on, or 
otherwise determine,  how financial businesses operate in general terms.  I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr Ls particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC are set out in the 2016 mortgage  offer in a way that should have been 
readily understandable  to Mr L; certainly,  the information about the ERC was set out in a 
manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr L knew  or at least  
should have known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid  the mortgage  before the end 
of the fixed-rate period.  
Lenders generally raise  money to offer preferential rates  for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money  markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed  in advance.  But a 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh  those costs in the form of interest on the 
mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage ends early, it doesnt get 
that interest,  and so doesnt make back the costs in raising the funds to offer that preferential  
rate. TSB cant afford to just offer preferential rates without carrying  out such deals, and its 
only right those costs were passed  onto Mr L when he ended his deal early by selling his 
house. In the circumstances, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to charge Mr L the ERC.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043255