K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that the Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading  as Post Office  Money  made 
adverse entries  on her credit file following missed  payments to her credit  card account.
background
Mrs N has a credit card account with Post Office  Money. Mrs N says she made a payment in 
April 2018 to clear the balance  in full shortly before going abroad for several months.  Post 
Office Money says that the payment was received one day after the date it was due meaning 
interest was added to her account. Mrs N says she didnt check her account or make any 
further payments  for several  months  as she thought the balance had been cleared. In the 
meantime, Post Office  Money added further  interest  and late payment fees and sent letters 
to Mrs N telling her about the arrears. Mrs N says that she didnt see these letters until 
August 2018 when  she paid off the balance. Because of this, there are late payment markers 
on her credit  file which Mrs N says have affected her ability  to get a mortgage.
Mrs N complained to Post Office Money. She said the balance  had been  paid, therefore she 
shouldnt be in arrears.  So she wanted her credit  file amended. She also said Post Office 
Money should have  contacted her if it thought she was in arrears. Post Office Money didnt 
uphold Mrs Ns complaint  but took time to do so. It said that the interest and late payment 
fees had been correctly  added to the account and that it had to report her payment history to 
credit reference agencies. However,  it accepted  that it didnt respond quickly enough  to the 
complaint and offered £100  compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable.
Mrs N asked us to look into her complaint. She remained unhappy about the arrears  on her 
account, saying  that Post Office Money  should have contacted  her about them  and that she 
wanted her credit file corrected. Our investigator  didnt uphold  the complaint saying that: the 
interest and fees had been applied correctly; a check of the account  would have shown an 
outstanding balance; and Mrs Ns credit file was accurate. Mrs N didnt agree and asked for 
her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was Post Office Money right to charge  interest  and late payment fees?
Ive reviewed the agreement between Mrs N and Post Office Money and the statements sent 
to Mrs N. They say that, if the minimum amount isnt paid by the due date, interest  and a late 
payment fee will be added to the account. Mrs N would have been  aware  of this as thats 
exactly what happened in January 2018 when she made a payment one day after the due 
date. I think Mrs N could have expected the same outcome when  she made a late payment 
in March 2018. Given how close the payment date was to the due date,  I think its 
reasonable for Mrs N to have checked  her account to see if the payment  had gone  through 
in time. Had she done this, she would have seen that her account  had an outstanding 
balance, and Ive no doubt that Mrs N would  have it paid off. From what  Ive seen, I think  
Post Office  Money was fair in adding interest  and late payment fees to Mrs Ns account.
did Post Office Money take reasonable steps  to contact Mrs N?
Ref: DRN72899022Ive seen that as the number of missing  payments  grew, there were messages on the 
account statements  asking Mrs N to stop using her credit card and to make contact. Ive also 
seen example letters Post Office Money says it sent to Mrs N each time there was a late 
payment fee. In summer  2018, four letters would have  been sent. Mrs N was abroad  and 
only caught up with her post some months later. She wasnt  checking her account online,  so 
she wouldnt  have seen  the messages on the statements.  Mrs N accepts that she didnt let 
Post Office  Money know  shed be abroad. If she had, its likely  that an alternative way of 
keeping in touch  would  have been  agreed. From what Ive seen Post Office  Money  tried to 
inform Mrs N of the arrears on her account.  I can understand why Mrs N didnt monitor  her 
account while she was abroad, but I think Post Office Money took reasonable steps  to let her 
know about the arrears.
Mrs N said Post Office Money had contacted  her on a previous  occasion when her account 
had gone into arrears and wanted to know why she wasnt contacted in the summer of 2018. 
The previous  occasion was in December 2017 when  Mrs N says that she tried to make a 
payment, but it didnt  go through.  She says that Post Office Money then phoned her and the 
payment was made over the phone,  although  it says it has no record of contacting Mrs N in 
December 2017.  Nor does the account statement  for that month show a payment being 
made. From the evidence  Ive seen I dont think there was telephone  contact  in December 
2017 and that post is the main method  of letting Mrs N know about the late payment fees.  So 
I wouldnt have expected Post Office Money to telephone Mrs N about  the arrears.
are the entries  on Mrs Ns credit  file correct?
Ive reviewed Mrs Ns credit report and can see that there are a number of late payment 
markers. The markers are accurate and reflect  the periods when  Mrs N didnt make 
payments or when  they were  late. I sympathise with Mrs Ns concern about the effect these 
markers may have  on a mortgage application. But its fair that Post Office  Money  records  
that payments  werent made, and I dont think its reasonable  to ask for the markers to be 
removed from the credit  file. 
Taking everything into account  that Ive just mentioned, I think that interest and fees were  
added correctly to Mrs Ns credit  card account  and that Post Office Money acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so. I also think that it took reasonable steps to inform  Mrs N when her 
account fell into arrears from April 2018. I can understand why Mrs N is upset about the 
entries on her credit  file, but I dont think Post Office Money has done  anything wrong in 
adding them to her file and I wont be asking for them to be removed.  
my final decision
I am aware  that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading as Post Office Money has made an offer to 
pay £100. I conclude  that such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. My 
decision is that Post Office Money  should  pay Mrs N £100 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7289902