K820x#14Complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the work carried out and service provided under  her HomeCare Two 
policy underwritten by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas).
Background
Ms M says she had an annual service  on 31 December  2018 and following this she 
experienced problems with her boiler  involving multiple call outs and a period of one and a 
half days when she had no heating  or hot water. She believes her boiler hasnt  worked 
properly since the annual service and as a result shes  suffered considerable stress  and 
inconvenience. 
British Gas visited Ms Ms home and completed  work as follows:
29/01/19  expansion vessel recharged
06/02/19  leaking  valve fixed 
05/03/19  expansion vessel checked,  air removed from the system. The boiler was working 
when the engineer left, but stopped working  shortly afterwards
06/03/19  boiler  pressure  topped up 
11/07/19  expansion vessel replaced
British Gas explained the reasons for the visits and offered Ms M £60 as a gesture  of 
goodwill. Ms M doesnt think this figure adequately reflects the stress and inconvenience 
shes suffered.
The investigator who considered Ms Ms complaint didnt  uphold it. He said hed considered  
the evidence of trained engineers and there  was nothing  to suggest British  Gas had caused 
the problems Ms M experienced. The investigator said each  visit to Ms Ms home was to 
resolve a different issue and British Gas had attended within  a reasonable timeframe after 
being notified of a problem. Its offer of £60 compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, so her complaint has been passed to me. She said:
-She hadnt experienced any problems with her boiler before the service at the end of 
2019.
-British Gas hasnt  revealed the truth about  what it found in visits or admitted any 
shortcomings.
-The investigator didnt  take what she said in to consideration.  Ms M questioned how 
he could suggest  she got an independent report if there were  no errors or 
shortcomings.
-She had heating and hot water before the engineers  visit on 5 March  2019, but not 
shortly after. The engineer who visited on 5 March  also seemed uncertain about what 
to do. 
-The investigator had failed to consider the impact on her of the number of visits 
required and of no having no heating and hot water for a day and a half. 
-British Gas engineers  referred to fixing problems caused by previous  engineers  when 
they visited.
My findings
Ref: DRN77178262Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
British Gas say the annual  service  is to, ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or central 
heating and ventilation  is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations.     
Ms Ms HomeCare agreement makes it clear  that if the engineer finds  a problem  or fault that 
needs to be fixed, British  Gas will tell its customer.  The safety checks completed  didnt  
identify any problem that needed to be fixed.  So I dont consider work was carried  out at the 
time of the safety check (which British  Gas has explained included checking  the expansion 
vessel). Given  this point I find it unlikely a British  Gas engineer  can have done anything to 
cause Ms Ms boiler to work  differently after the annual  service. 
Ive nevertheless considered the records made by British Gas at the time of their subsequent 
visits, and the opinions of engineers with relevant experience and expertise, to decide  if its 
more likely than not that subsequent issues with Ms Ms boiler  related to the annual  service. 
Ive also thought about whether problems could  have  been identified by British Gas 
engineers and dealt with earlier.  
At the end of January  2019 Ms M complained of a loss of pressure and an engineer 
recharged the expansion vessel. It was then tested and found  to be working  properly. At the 
following visit in February 2019 a valve was replaced as it was leaking. British Gas has been 
unable to identify  which valve  was replaced,  but it seems to me that replacing the valve 
wasnt related to recharging the expansion vessel  it was just a case  of wear over a period 
of time. British Gas has explained the expansion vessel  wouldnt have been checked at this 
visit.
At the next visit on 5 March 2019 the system had too much water pressure, so this was 
reduced, some radiators  that had acquired  air were bled, and the boiler  was left operating. 
This wasnt the case a few hours  later and so Ms M called  British  Gas and a further visit was 
arranged the following  day. Ive looked  in to why this was the case and what was done  the 
following day. British  Gas has explained that the pressure was topped  up on 6 March 2019. I 
understand from a British  Gas technical  manager  that this could have  been  required 
because too much pressure was removed the day before or air could have been emitted via 
the auto air vent. The same manager  also explained that it can be hard to check the 
pressure as the gauge tends to stay up if the water is hot within the system.
Given the information Ive received from a British  Gas technical manager  I consider that it 
was unfortunate  Ms M had to call British  Gas out on consecutive days,  but Im not 
persuaded this was because British Gas acted unreasonably. 
In July 2019 the expansion vessel in Ms Ms boiler was replaced so Ive looked at whether 
earlier problems are likely to have  related  to the expansion vessel  - meaning  that replacing  it 
sooner may have  resulted  in fewer visits. British Gas has confirmed that expansion vessels  
lose air over time and have no fixed lifespan.  The expansion vessel was charged in January 
and checked in March, suggesting  it was keeping its charge  at the time. So Im not 
persuaded British  Gas should have replaced the expansion vessel sooner. 
I understand that being without heating and hot water in early March will have been difficult  
and caused inconvenience. Ms M called British Gas to report the issue after 9pm on 5 March 
2019. At that time British  Gas checked  whether Ms M was in any immediate danger and    
Ref: DRN77178263Ms M confirmed she wasnt. In the circumstances, I consider British Gas acted reasonably in 
not sending an out of hours engineer to Ms Ms home during the night  but to arrange a visit 
for the following day. A more limited  number of engineers  work  at night and priority is rightly 
given to those  in more vulnerable situations. Im satisfied this was explained to Ms M at the 
time. After the engineers visit the following day Ms M had heating and hot water again. 
British Gas has provided Ms M with a goodwill payment of £60 and Im not asking it to do 
anything more. 
Ms M has said engineers  who visited referred to poor work by other  engineers and has also 
said some  engineers didnt seem  to know what they were doing. There  is no record  of any 
such conversations and British Gas has confirmed that all its engineers are appropriately 
qualified. 
Given there is expert evidence available and Ms M and the investigator dont have expert 
knowledge, the investigator invited  Ms M to provide evidence if she disagreed  with his 
conclusions. This doesnt mean the investigator  felt British Gas caused the problems Ms M 
experienced with her boiler. 
I understand Ms M says her boiler worked  differently  after it was serviced  at the end of 2018, 
but as Im not an expert  Ive considered  evidence from engineers who regularly service  
boilers. Having done  so, Im not persuaded British  Gas acted unreasonably  or caused Ms M 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2021.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7717826