K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about eight instalment loans Satsuma provided  to Mr S between March 
2015 and August 2017. The loans ranged in term from 13 weeks  to six months. This is a 
summary of Mr Ss lending  history  from Satsuma. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 12/03/2015 24/06/2015 130
2 24/08/2015 28/11/2015 150
3 30/10/2015 18/03/2016 300
4 25/09/2016 31/03/2017 100
5 30/01/2017 01/07/2017 100
6 05/04/2017 01/07/2017 150
7 01/07/2017 - 350
8 11/08/2017 - 150
In its final response letter  Satsuma upheld Mr Ss complaint about loans 1 to 3. And its offer 
to compensate him was in line with our guidelines. But our adjudicator  thought the loans 
from loan 4 onwards  also shouldnt  have  been  given. Satsuma didnt agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN70414182the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
As Satsuma  has already  upheld Mr Ss complaint about loans 1 to 3 I will focus on loans 4 to 
8. There was a significant  gap of over six months in Mr Ss borrowing from Satsuma 
between loans 3 and 4. So I think it would have been reasonable for Satsuma to view that 
gap as an indication  that Mr Ss finances had stabilised after whatever  the circumstances 
that had caused him to take out his previous loans. This means I will look at loans 4 to 8 as a 
separate lending chain.    
I think Satsuma carried out proportionate checks for loan 4, but I dont think it made the right 
lending decision based on the information  it had gathered. From its checks  Satsuma thought 
it was likely Mr S had understated his monthly  expenditure,  so it based its affordability 
calculation on a higher number. This showed  Mr S would have very little disposable income  
and whilst his loan repayment of £31.94 may have  been affordable on a pounds  and pence 
basis, this wasnt the only thing Satsuma had to consider. As Ive explained above, it had to 
make sure the loan was sustainably affordable. So I think  Satsuma ought to have realised 
that leaving Mr S with disposable income  (after the loan repayment)  of less than £50 was 
most likely to cause him difficulties. So it was wrong  to give loan 4.    
Mr S applied for loan 5 whilst he was still repaying loan 4. And I dont think Satsuma carried 
out proportionate checks at this stage. Had it done so it would most likely have seen that 
Mr S already  had at least three other short term loans outstanding  with other lenders. So it 
would have realised  his finances  were  under pressure.  And it was most likely he was just 
borrowing to pay off other loans. And that this loan, and any subsequent loans, were unlikely 
to be sustainably affordable for Mr S. It follows I dont think Satsuma should have given 
loans 5 to 8 Mr S.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 onwards, and Satsuma should  put things  right. 
Ref: DRN70414183putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 4 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loans 7 and 8 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr S**; and
remove any negative information  about loans 4 to 8 from Mr Ss credit file
If Satsuma has sold the outstanding  debt from loans 7 and 8 to a third party it should buy it 
back before  doing  what  Ive said above.  If this isnt possible,  Satsuma  needs  to make sure 
that Mr S has paid or will pay no more in total than the principal amounts he was lent. So 
Satsuma should  (in addition  to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr S has already  paid to the third party,  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any information that it may have recorded about the 
loans from Mr Ss credit file.
If Satsuma  doesnt  buy the debt back  then it isnt entitled to make any deductions 
from the amount  that it needs to pay Mr S.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Satsuma intends to apply the 
refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there is still a principal balance due, I remind  Satsuma  of its obligation 
to treat Mr S fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
I note Mr S feels  Satsuma should  also compensate him for its poor complaint handling.  
Whilst I understand it has been  a frustrating process  for him, I dont think  the inconvenience 
he has suffered is such that I have  grounds  to award  him an additional payment from 
Satsuma. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should  pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7041418