K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  was misrepresented  to him.
.
background 
On 10 March 2018 Mr B acquired a car with the benefit of a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. Mr B says he was told by the dealership that it was a 1.6 diesel and this was 
also confirmed on the sales invoice and in the advert. He says when  he went to insure the 
car it was confirmed as a 1.6 diesel and was insured on this basis.
But he says the car developed problems with its performance and seemed to be 
underpowered. He took it back to the garage  three  times within the first few months  and the 
garage then replaced  the pressure boost sensor  and said it was fixed. Mr B felt it was still 
underpowered. When he checked the cars documents, he found  it was a 1.2 diesel, not a 
1.6 as hed been told.
Mr B says if hed known he wouldnt have bought the car. His previous car was a 1.8 diesel 
and he was looking for something similar. He feels he was misled by the selling garage  and 
persuaded into acquiring the car on the basis of the misrepresentation. Hed like the 
agreement cancelled.
Moneybarn disagreed and said regardless of what was said in the sales invoice and dealers 
advert, the conditional  sale agreement had described the car correctly  so it felt Mr B would 
have known this before he signed the agreement.  It noted the engine  size was correctly 
described in the cars registration form (V5C) and the HPI document  which again would have 
put Mr B on notice of the actual engine size. 
It noted Mr B hadnt complained about the misrepresentation until August 2018,  some 5 
months after hed acquired it and only after he was facing some financial difficulties. It didnt 
agree hed been misled or that it should now cancel  the agreement.
Our investigator said Mr B had acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn and, as such,  Moneybarn was responsible if the selling  garage  told Mr B 
something about the car that was untrue but which he then relied on in deciding whether to 
go ahead  in acquiring the car.
There was little direct information about what had been said between  the dealership and Mr 
B at the time. The finance agreement  listed the car as a 1.2 diesel  but the sales  invoice 
signed by Mr B stated  the car was a 1.6. The insurance  document  also recorded  the car as 
having a 1.6 engine, and this fitted with what Mr B had said about looking for a car with a 
similar sized  engine  to his previous car, a 1.8 diesel.  While there was no clear  information 
about what had been said at the dealership, on balance he felt it probable Mr B had been  
told this car had a 1.6 engine and that hed gone  ahead on that basis.  In particular he 
thought it unlikely hed have insured it as a 1.6 diesel, and paid higher premiums as a result,  
if he hadnt genuinely thought that was the case.
Hed also taken into account  Mr Bs concerns about the cars lack of power  once hed taken 
delivery. This was clearly important to him and added weight to his statement that he 
wouldnt have been interested  in a car with a smaller engine.
Ref: DRN79133672Although Mr B had seen  and signed  the finance  agreement, which  was correct, this had to 
be balanced against the other information,  in particular  the sales invoice that showed  a 
different engine size. There  was conflicting evidence but on balance our investigator  felt 
thered been misrepresentation  by the dealership that Mr B had relied on in deciding  to go 
ahead with this car. On that basis he recommended that Mr B be allowed to cancel  the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay. However Mr B had use of the car for several months 
before it was taken  back so he didnt recommend a refund of any payments. He did however 
recommend Moneybarn pay Mr B £150 for the inconvenience caused  by what had 
happened.
Mr B accepted the recommendation. Moneybarn however didnt agree. It felt Mr B had had 
enough information to know the correct size of the engine or at least  to have queried the 
information. It asked  for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
On 3 June 2019 I issued  a provisional  decision in which  I said,  in summary:
If Mr B was given misleading  or inaccurate  information which persuaded  him to enter into the 
finance agreement, then as the provider of the finance, Moneybarn  would  be  responsible for 
this and could  be required to take steps  to put matters right.
There was strong evidence to suggest  Mr B was told he was buying a 1.6 diesel.  This was 
stated in the sales invoice signed  by the garage and was identified  in the insurance policy he 
took out for the car at this time. I thought it improbable  Mr B would have insured it as 1.6 
diesel unless he understood  this to be correct and the only way hed have come  to that view 
was if hed been told this by the garage.
I also took into account that Mr B had had a 1.8 engine in his previous car and had been 
looking to replace it with something similar. Taking all this into account I felt it more  probable  
than not that Mr B understood he was acquiring a 1.6 diesel and that he wouldnt have been  
interested in a car with a lower specification. On that basis, I considered that, intended or 
not, the car had been misrepresented  to Mr B and that Mr B relied on this in deciding 
whether to go ahead.
But this had to be balanced against  the fact that the correct engine size was stated in the 
conditional sale agreement signed by Mr B. It wasnt clear why Mr B hadnt spotted  this at 
the time but it seemed  hed assumed the details were the same  as hed had before and went 
ahead on that basis. And when  the cars log book was sent to him shortly after, he simply put 
it away without reading it in detail. Although this didnt take away  from the original 
misrepresentation, it did explain why Mr B hadnt seen the error sooner. As Mr B was in part 
responsible for this, Id taken it into account in the remedy.
Ref: DRN79133673In the circumstances of this particular case,  I was of the view Mr B hadnt received the car 
hed been led to believe. On that basis, I proposed that he should now be allowed to end the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay. Moneybarn should also mark the agreement as 
settled on Mr Bs credit file and ensure any adverse information recorded in relation to this 
agreement was removed.  Mr B had made a number of payments until the issue  was 
identified but these payments reflected the use hed had of the car at this time so I wouldnt 
be asking Moneybarn to refund them. And for the reasons  given, I consider Mr B was in part 
responsible for the time it took to identify  this error  so I didnt consider  it reasonable for 
Moneybarn to also pay compensation to Mr B.
Mr B accepted the decision but also asked for the deposit of £50 hed paid to the garage to 
be refunded. Moneybarn also accepted the decision but queried the refund of this deposit as 
it had no record of it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I havent  seen  anything  to 
change my provisional view and Ive therefore decided  to adopt this as my final decision.
Ive looked at the information available and on balance, I think  it probable  that Mr B was 
looking to find a similar sized car as a replacement and that this was what  he understood 
hed be getting  when he agreed  to go ahead with this car. And it seems  clear to me that this 
must have  been  part of the discussion with the garage as this was what  was shown on the 
sales invoice and on the back of that, in the insurance document.  In the event the car was a 
smaller sized  model which I dont believe Mr B wouldnt have bought  had he known this at 
the time.  For that reason  I remain of the view its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
allow Mr B to reject the car and cancel  the agreement. 
However I didnt agree  that Moneybarn needed  to refund the monthly  payments  already 
made by Mr B or to pay him compensation. The correct details were set out in the finance  
agreement and in the cars log book so I felt Mr B could have identified  the problem at the 
time and, if he had, then the problem could have been resolved sooner. And the monthly  
payments simply reflected the use Mr B had of the car until the problem  was identified.
In his comments Mr B has said he also paid a deposit of £50 to the garage.  However this 
wasnt shown in the finance agreement  and it appears to have been a private arrangement  
between Mr B and the garage.  If Mr B wishes to pursue this then I advise him to contact the 
garage but I cant see that this money was paid to Moneybarn or that it was included  in any 
way in the finance arrangement so I cant reasonably ask Moneybarn  to refund this as well.
Ref: DRN79133674my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Moneybarn No 1 Limited:
to allow  Mr B to cancel the finance agreement 
to mark the agreement as settled on Mr Bs credit file and remove any adverse 
information recorded in connection  with this agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7913367