K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited  debited his account  with a series  of online and 
card payments totalling approximately £20,000 which  he says he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
background
Mr S disputes making thirty-six payments between 16 October  and 5 November 2018 which  
totalled around £20,000. These payments were a combination of online and card 
transactions, and most were made to gambling websites or shops. Whilst these transactions  
were ongoing  there  were  several undisputed payments on the account  including payments in 
of gambling winnings and faster payments, and one payment out to a garage.
Mr S explained he was in hospital for a couple of days, starting just before the disputed 
transactions occurred.   He explained  he didnt have his Starling card with him in hospital  and 
couldnt recall where hed left it. He then spent  a few weeks recovering at home where his 
parents looked  after him. He said he was bedbound so had no reason to use his card and 
didnt notice the card was missing during that period.  
He said he had never shared or recorded  his PIN, nor was it something memorable which  
someone close to him could have guessed. He didnt know  how someone would have 
accessed his other  personal details to set up gambling accounts in his name but thought 
perhaps his details may have been obtained  online or by a cybercriminal.  
Starling contacted the gambling companies  and received evidence that showed at least one 
of the accounts  was set up using Mr Ss correct  details.  Someone also contacted one of the 
gambling companies to dispute the transactions, which led to the account  being blocked. Mr 
S initially told us he didnt gamble, but then accepted he did gamble but told us he would  
only gamble money  that he could afford. 
Mr S complained that Starling should  have  questioned why so much money left his account 
and done something to prevent this. He also explained that he had reported the transactions 
to the relevant authorities. 
Mr S complained to Starling who refused  to refund the transactions on the grounds they 
believed hed authorised them as:
his genuine  card and PIN, and his card details including CVV,  were used to complete  
the transactions
the card remained active for around three weeks and during this time the available  
account balance  wasnt fully utilised
they received  details  from one of the gambling companies that was registered  using  
all of Mr Ss genuine  information.  
credits were received  from gambling merchants, as well as funds being transferred 
from another bank  account that appeared to be in Mr Ss name
They also took the decision to close Mr Ss account  with 30 days notice. 
Mr S didnt agree with Starlings decision,  so he asked us to investigate.  Our investigator 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  they felt unable to conclude  
the transactions had been made fraudulently and were persuaded they were most likely 
Ref: DRN77268002made and authorised by Mr S. Ms S asked  for the answer to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Starling can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Im satisfied  
from the banks  technical  evidence that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
disputed transactions  in person, as well as his genuine card details including the CVV being 
used for online  payments.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, on its own,  
enough to enable Starling to hold him liable. So, I need to think about  whether the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that Mr S consented to these transactions  being made.
From what  Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Starling to conclude  that Mr S authorised the 
transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Ss genuine card and card details, 
but Mr S accepts he made some transactions during the period the disputed 
transactions were  taking  place.  Whilst I accept its possible, Im not persuaded its the 
most likely explanation here than an unknown third party  took Mr Ss card and then 
returned it to him without  him noticing, only to take it again. 
I say this because  it also seems unusual that an unknown third party could have 
learned Mr Ss PIN. By his own admission  he hadnt shared it, written it down or 
picked a number  someone could have  guessed.  His last genuine use of his card and 
PIN was about twenty-one  hours prior to the first disputed transaction,  and Id find it 
unusual if an unknown  third party had been  able to observe  him entering his PIN, 
take his card but wait that long to use the card. 
Further, it also seems unusual that an unknown third party  with access  to both the 
card and PIN would  take and replace the card more  than once, to mainly complete 
gambling transactions over a three-week  period. The winnings were  returned to the 
card which  Mr S could cancel at any point  which would  prevent an unknown  third 
party benefitting from any winnings. One might expect an unknown  third party to 
maximise the use of any account  balance through withdrawals or spending as soon 
as possible in case Mr S were to notice  his card was missing and cancel it.
Further, the details  used to set up at least one of the accounts including  the email 
address and mobile number matches  those  belonging to Mr S. I find it unlikely that an 
unknown third party would have been  able to access all of these details.  It would also 
be unusual for an unknown third party to use all of Mr Ss correct details as this 
would risk alerting  Mr S to the fraudulent  activity  as messages would have likely been 
sent to confirm setting  up the account or transactions taking place. 
It is unclear why an unknown third party  would have contacted one of the gambling 
companies to dispute some of the transactions  as this led to the account being  
Ref: DRN77268003closed, and this took place approximately  five days before Mr S got in touch with 
Starling to cancel  his card. 
The transactions werent  out of character  for Mr S - Ive seen that Mr S has used the 
gambling company  and other  betting merchants on another account prior to these 
disputed transactions.  
Mr S suggested to us that a cybercriminal may have completed the transactions, but I 
am satisfied some  of the transactions required his genuine physical card so Im 
unclear how a cybercriminal  would have obtained  this. Mr S has made no suggestion 
that someone close to him completed  these transactions,  nor is there any evidence  
to suggest someone other than Mr S completed  these.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7726800