K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that One Call Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him cover for breakdown 
and legal services  when he bought a motor insurance policy through  it. 
background
Mr L bought a gold standard breakdown / recovery policy. One Call said it covered 
unlimited breakdowns. But when he made a request for a call out, his insurer  said he wasnt 
covered, as a recovery agent had already attended  for the same  problem.  He also thought 
hed bought general legal insurance. But when he wanted legal advice about something that 
wasnt related to a claim, he found  he wasnt covered.  Mr L said hed never received a copy 
of the policies  terms and conditions. He said hed just been  directed  to the website.
One Call said all the policy documents were  available to view online on the day of sale.  They 
were posted  to Mr L a few days later.  It said the gold standard  policy covered unlimited call 
outs, but repeat call outs for the same  fault were  excluded. It said the legal advice Mr L 
wanted wasnt available because it fell outside  the cover the legal policy  provided.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ls complaint. She thought One Call had given him 
enough information and didnt mis-sell  the policies to him. As there was no agreement,  the 
complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
In the sales calls, Mr L was told there was unlimited cover for breakdowns. The summary  of 
the policy document  setting out the key facts  about it  also says unlimited call outs are 
covered. But on the same  page  theres a section headed What are my obligations ? The 
section covers the basic conditions all consumers must satisfy (such  as keeping  their 
vehicles in a roadworthy condition.) One of the conditions is that consumers must have any 
fault picked up by a recovery agent  dealt with. It says any further breakdown  request for the 
same fault may not be covered. The summary  was provided just after the policy  was sold.
Not every issue can be covered in a sales call. I dont think it was essential for One Call to 
have highlighted  that call outs for the same  problem wouldnt be covered. Similar terms are 
very common in breakdown policies. And even  if One Call had highlighted it, I dont think it 
would have made any difference to Mr L. From  the calls Ive heard, I think  he bought the 
gold policy  partly because  call outs were free and unlimited  rather  than just two a year,  
charged at £20 each,  on the basic cover. But it was also very important to him to have free 
recovery from anywhere in the UK. The basic cover was limited to just a 10 mile radius.
Numerous issues can lead to a vehicle breaking  down.  The policy provided unlimited call 
outs for each new issue. I dont think Mr L would have declined the policys  many benefits 
because it wouldnt cover a problem already identified  under it as needing attention.  I dont 
think thats what breakdown policies are intended  for. And I dont think its likely that Mr L 
would have found a similar  breakdown  policy that covered him in those circumstances  
One Call has shown  that the policy documents were uploaded on the day of purchase  so 
Ref: DRN76842072Mr L could view them online. It cant provide the email  it sent to Mr L informing him how to 
access the documents, but Mr L has told us he was referred to the website. And One Call 
can show it sent the policy documents to him by post within the 14-day cooling off period. 
If Mr L didnt receive them, that isnt One Calls fault. It can show that he accessed his online 
account within that time, so he was able to see the documents placed there in good  time. 
Mr L was asked to read the policy documents carefully during the final sales call. He thinks  
important details shouldnt  be set out in a policys small print. But I dont think  a policy  
summary can be considered small print. In this case each  policy summary is short, with clear 
headings. Theyre intended to draw consumers  attention to important policy  details without 
their having  to search through the policy to find them. 
When Mr L tried to make a second claim on the breakdown policy for what  seemed to be the 
same fault an agent had attended for the previous day, it was declined by his insurer. Mr L 
disputes the circumstances of the call out, but One Call wasnt responsible for that decision. 
If Mr L thinks it wasnt fair, its open  to him to raise  it with his insurer. But I dont think  he can 
show that One Call mis-sold the gold breakdown policy to him. 
Mr L was told during the sales call that the guaranteed hire / legal  cover  policy  provided  a 
hire vehicle - even in the event of a fault claim - and covered personal injury  and loss of 
earnings. Mr L queried whether the legal  cover would apply in the event of a dispute. The 
advisor said it would.  I think the advisor assumed Mr L was asking  about  disputes related to 
the issues hed just outlined. I think that was reasonable enough.  The policy  wasnt  there to 
provide general  legal advice and the advisor  had outlined the specific  areas it covered. 
I think the advisor gave  Mr L sufficient  details of the cover  and the policy documents 
uploaded that day and then posted  to him also set them  out clearly. The policy is entitled 
Basic Legal and Guaranteed  Hire Vehicle . The policy summary says it provides a personal 
injury assistance service, covering loss of earnings, personal injury  compensation and the 
recovery of policy excesses. I think thats  basically what Mr L was told at the point of sale,  so 
I dont think One Call mis-sold the policy to him. Again, if Mr L thinks his insurer declined his 
request for advice  unfairly, he can raise  that with the insurer.    
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules  I must ask Mr L to accept or reject  my decision before 6 February 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7684207