K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains on behalf of himself and Mrs Z that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
debited £735.94  from their account for a SWIFT payment that didnt reach  the beneficiary 
account.
 
background
Mr and Mrs Z held a joint account with Nationwide. In late 2018 Nationwide debited  £735.94 
from the account. As Mr Z didnt know why this money had been  taken  from the account, he 
made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide said that the debit related to a SWIFT  payment that Mr Z had attempted to make 
in early 2018. Nationwide had made an error when processing the payment and spelt  Mr Zs 
name wrong.  Nationwide  said they attempted to send an amendment  to the payment but 
couldnt confirm  it had worked. So, they didnt think the payment had gone through and they 
refunded Mr Z the full amount,  whilst  they waited for the funds to be returned to them.
Nationwide said that the funds were  never  returned,  so they started  to trace  where they had 
gone. Nationwide said they discovered the funds were successfully deposited in the 
intended beneficiary account.  So, they re-debited Mr Zs account  for the payment which  they 
had earlier  refunded.
Mr Z was unhappy with Nationwides response  as he said that the funds hadnt  ever reached 
the beneficiary account which was in his name. So, Mr Z brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator felt that Nationwide had shown  sufficient  evidence that the funds had 
reached the intended beneficiary account. They  felt Nationwide  were able to re-debit the 
funds, so they said Nationwide didnt do anything wrong. Mr Z remained unhappy as he 
maintained that the funds had not been received to the beneficiary account.  So, the case 
has been passed onto me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr Z is upset  that, 11 months after he had made the original 
transaction, he suddenly had over £700 taken  from his account without warning. So, Ive 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to debit the account as it did.
Theres no disagreement that Mr Z instructed Nationwide  to make the SWIFT payment in 
early 2018.  What is disputed is whether this money  reached its destination. 
So, Ive looked  at what the parties  have provided  in this respect. Nationwide  has provided 
information it says it received from the receiving bank, indicating  that the money was 
received in early  February 2018. We asked  Mr Z to provide evidence to support his claim 
that he never received the money,  such as a bank statement for the period in question. 
He hasnt provided one, nor any other  correspondence from his bank  that might  lead me to 
think the information Nationwide provided is incorrect.  On this basis,  I cant  reasonably 
conclude hes suffered the loss hes claiming
Ref: DRN73658922Nationwide have said that terms and conditions of the account allow it to make deductions 
for payments that Mr Z asks them to make. Mr Z instructed Nationwide  to make the SWIFT  
payment and from what Ive seen  itss likely  that payment was successfully made. So, I think 
it was reasonable  to re-debit Mr Zs account  for the SWIFT payment. 
Ive then considered  the timing of Nationwides  actions.  Im satisfied that during the interim 
time Nationwide  were making  reasonable efforts to try and recover,  and then trace,  the 
funds. And, they didnt  delay in recovering costs from Mr Z once they had evidence the 
payment was successful.
Nationwide didnt give Mr Z any prior notice that the funds were  going to be re-debited from 
the account. I understand why this upset Mr Z however, the funds had successfully  been  
transferred into Mr Zs beneficiary  account  several months beforehand. So, Mr Z wasnt 
entitled to this money and I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide  to reclaim  it. 
Although Nationwide wrote to Mr Z on the day that the funds were  reclaimed,  notifying  him of 
their actions, I do think Nationwide  could have contacted Mr Z before  re-debiting his account.  
Especially considering the amount  of time that had passed since the original transaction. 
However, Mr Z wasnt materially disadvantaged by this, so Im not going to require any 
further action  from Nationwide.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7365892