K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold  him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Mr P took out a mortgage with YBS. The PPI policy  started on 24 May 1993. The policy  was 
amended in June  2011.
Our adjudicator upheld  this case.  They didnt think YBS had given Mr P enough information 
about the key terms and conditions of the policy. And they didnt think  Mr P wouldve bought 
the policy if hed been given better information.
YBS did not accept  the adjudicators opinion so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint because I dont think YBS gave him clear enough 
information about the policy when  they sold it to him. I say this because  Im persuaded Mr P 
had a pre-existing medical condition, which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. I think 
had he known he couldnt claim for his pre-existing medical conditions,  he wouldnt have 
bought the policy. So I think Mr P has lost out as a result of what  YBS did wrong. 
YBS questions whether Mr P had a medical condition when the PPI was sold.  It points to the 
fact that initially  Mr P said he had no medical  conditions when he first brought  complaint to 
us.  
We queried this with Mr P and asked for more detail. He explained that he had a medical  
condition since the early 1990s.  We asked  for evidence and hes sent us medical records 
showing that during  a GP visit on 13 April1993 he had a medical examination  the results of 
which indicated a medical condition. It also shows he visited his GP on 17 May 1993  and 
underwent the same  medical examination the results of which again indicated  a medical 
condition. Mr P says this was discussed  with him and regardless of the suspected cause of 
the condition being noted as lifestyle related, Im persuaded he was aware he had a medical 
condition by 13 April 1993 at the latest.  I note that something had prompted  Mr P to visit his 
GP at this time so its possible he was aware something was wrong  even earlier than this 
date.  
YBS also says at the time of sale Mr P signed  a declaration on his PPI form stating he was 
in good health. But from what I can see YBS didnt tell him why this was important or what  
conditions might not be covered under the policy. So this doesnt  change my opinion that Mr 
P most likely had a medical condition when the policy was sold.  
YBS has also pointed to the fact that Mr P didnt receive any treatment for this condition  until 
1998. But the policy term doesnt  say that only conditions for which  the consumer was 
receiving treatment are excluded  it reads wider than that and excludes  any medical 
Ref: DRN72642832condition that Mr P was aware of in the 12 months  prior to the commencement of cover.   
So this doesnt  change my decision.   
YBS has made a number of other points as to why Mr P wouldnt have been affected by the 
limitations of the policy, not all of which I have addressed in my decision, but which  I have 
thought about carefully.  Taking  everything  into account I think  its unlikely Mr P wouldve  
been able to claim on the policy for issues arising  from this condition. And given Mr P had 
visited the doctor in relation to this condition, I think its likely this condition wouldve been at 
the forefront of his mind  when the policy was sold. Overall, I dont think Mr P wouldve 
chosen to take the insurance  had he been given clear information. 
what YBS should do to put things right
YBS should  put Mr P in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and YBS should:
-Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, YBS can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019. 
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7264283