K821x#15complaint
Ms A is unhappy Dynamo Cover Limited  wont refund the premium she paid for a breakdown 
insurance policy. 
background
In August  last year Ms As car had a tyre blowout and was taken to a garage.  That evening 
she took out a breakdown insurance policy through Dynamo. This had a 72 hour 
exclusionary period  before a claim  could be made.  Ms A says 48 hours  after taking out the 
policy she called to find out whether her car could be recovered to a garage near her. During 
that call she said the car already had a flat tyre and was told that as this was a pre-existing 
issue the policy wouldnt cover her. The policy was cancelled.  
Dynamo said where a claim  had been  reported  no premium  refund was payable. And it 
believed that was the case here. It also said as Ms A purchased  the policy with the intent of 
claiming on it this was mis-representation. And it suggested shed acted fraudulently. Ms A 
was unhappy  Dynamo wouldnt refund her premiums and with how she was spoken  to 
during a phone  call. 
Our investigator didnt  think Ms A had reported a claim and said Dynamo  should  refund her 
premiums (less the administration  charge  the policy entitled it to deduct). He also thought  it 
should pay her £50 in recognition of the poor customer service  it provided when it spoke to 
Ms A. 
Dynamo didnt agree  and so the complaint  was allocated  to me to reach a final decision. I 
outlined my initial thoughts to both parties  earlier this month. I said:
I didnt think this was a complaint where  issues relating to mis-representation were 
directly relevant. Ms A wasnt arguing cover should be provided for her claim but was 
unhappy about Dynamos decision not to refund the premium she paid after it had been 
cancelled;
The policy said premiums would be refunded if the policy  was cancelled within 14 days 
provided a claim hadnt been reported.  I didnt  think  Ms A had reported a claim here - 
she said she only got in touch to find out what would happen when she did make a claim 
and knew she wasnt able to do so at that point because she was still within  the policy 
exclusionary period.  Dynamos own call records said Ms A had been told she couldnt 
make a claim - and she wasnt provided  with a claim reference  number;
I didnt think the evidence showed shed  intentionally  sought to do something she knew 
was dishonest. So I didnt think it was fair to retain  the premium  on fraud grounds either; 
I didnt think Dynamo  needed to pay compensation for poor customer  service because  
the call which Ms A was concerned about  appeared to have been made to the 
emergency line which the insurer of the policy was ultimately responsible for. 
I said Ms A should receive a refund of the premium she paid (less the administration  fee set 
out in the policy). I also said she should receive  interest at 8% simple on this amount from 
the date payment should have been made  until the date it was. 
Ref: DRN72002162Dynamo said when  taking out the policy Ms A would have been asked whether her car had 
suffered any breakdowns in the last 12 months. It said shed answered no to this question.  
And this was contrary to what happened and what she later said. So it thought she had 
provided inaccurate information  when taking out the policy.  However,  it accepted this was 
careless rather than fraudulent. It also argued  that when Ms A got in touch she wanted to 
receive assistance under the insurance policy. 
Ms A also responded. She thought  the phone call shed had was with Dynamo  and remained 
very unhappy with what was said.  She thought she should receive compensation as well as 
a full refund  of the premium shed  paid. So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
customer service
Theres some dispute over what contact Ms A had with Dynamo and exactly who she spoke 
to. She says two days after taking  the policy out she contacted Dynamo to find out where her 
car would be taken when she made a claim. And it was during this call she was spoken to 
rudely by a female advisor. Dynamos  system  notes  say when Ms A contacted it shed 
already spoken  to the emergency  line and was now calling to cancel the policy  (and was told 
as shed already  made a claim a refund wouldnt be provided). 
On balance I think its more likely  Ms A did have  a call with the emergency line and its that 
call which has prompted her complaint about poor customer service.  I say that because she 
refers to having spoken to a female  advisor  whereas Dynamos call note was completed by a 
male advisor. I also note Ms A hasnt been  entirely  consistent in the dates shes given for 
when this call took place  in response to a query  from our investigator she said the call took 
place on a completely  different day. And as the emergency line is run by the insurer  then 
Dynamo isnt responsible  for what happened  during  those calls. 
refund of premiums
Dynamo says Ms A provided  inaccurate  information when she took out this policy because 
she didnt say her car had already  experienced a breakdown. But I dont think  thats 
something I need to determine in order to decide  this complaint. Even if Dynamo  are right to 
say Ms A answered a clear question  incorrectly that would only be directly relevant if the 
complaint related to what the insurer would  have done if it had been  given correct  
information. 
However, in this case Ms As policy has already been cancelled  and this complaint is about 
whether she should  receive a refund of the premium she paid. And the policy says that 
where a policy  is cancelled within the first 14 days this will be provided (less the cancellation 
fee) unless a claim has been reported. 
Dynamo says when she got in touch she wanted  to receive assistance  under the policy. But 
looking at what Ms A has said and Dynamos  note of her subsequent call I think Ms A was 
trying to understand what would happen when she did make a claim;  she wasnt reporting 
one at that point.  As Ive already said a claim doesnt appear to have been registered  and 
she didnt get a claim reference number. 
Ref: DRN72002163Nevertheless I do appreciate Ms As car had clearly  suffered a tyre problem prior to her 
taking out the policy.  I also recognise  the policy does say Dynamo is entitled to cancel the 
policy with immediate effect if it suspects fraud. But in response to my initial thoughts on the 
complaint Dynamo  accepted Ms A didnt act fraudulently when taking the policy  out (though  
did argue  that shed  been careless). So I think it should refund the premiums she paid - 
although as the policy says Dynamo  can deduct  a £6.99 administration fee its entitled to do 
that. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Dynamo Cover Limited will need  to refund the 
premiums Ms A paid for this policy (less the £6.99  cancellation fee). It will also need to pay 
interest on the refund at 8% simple from the date the payment should  have been made to 
the date it actually is. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7200216