K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2002. Mrs J says Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold her PPI. 
background 
The policy and credit card were taken out during a meeting at a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On her behalf, Mrs Js representative  disagreed with these findings. It has reiterated Mrs Js 
comments that PPI was not discussed with her, and that she was not aware that it had been  
added to her credit  card. The representative  has commented that where PPI was selected  
on the application form, the word  optional was not used  to describe the product, and Mrs J 
did not have to sign separately  to take it out.
The representative has also stated  that Mrs J was working less than 16 hours per week  
when sold the policy, and therefore would  not have been eligible for it. The representative 
has commented that if the policy  had been clearly explained to Mrs J, taking into account  her 
circumstances, she would  not have taken it out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Bank  of Scotland  made  it clear  that Mrs J didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully considered Mrs Js 
comments that she cannot recall PPI being mentioned to her at this time. However, I am 
mindful that the sale occurred a number of years ago, in my opinion making it more 
difficult to recall  in detail.
I also accept that PPI was not described as optional  on the application form, and Mrs J 
didnt have to sign separately to take it out. However, the form did state  that if Mrs J 
wanted to take out PPI, she would need to tick the relevant box. In my view,  this 
indicated that PPI was not a necessity in order  to be granted  the credit card. As the box 
was ticked, on the weight of evidence provided,  my conclusion on balance is that Mrs J 
agreed to take PPI out.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check that it was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.Mrs Js representative has stated that she was working less than 16 hours per week  
when she took out the policy, meaning  she wasnt eligible for it. I note that on the credit  
card application,  Mrs J was noted  as being in part time work. However, to be eligible for 
Ref: DRN71762142the policy, Mrs J had to be in work, and to meet that definition  she had to be working for 
remuneration and paying Class 1 National Insurance contributions. Based on the 
earnings that Mrs J entered on the application form, my understanding is that she would 
have been paying the relevant  National  Insurance  contributions. The policy  did not 
include a minimum requirement  for weekly hours worked. On balance  my view is that 
Mrs J was eligible for the policy. 
 Taking into account Mrs Js existing means  to meet the card repayments if she wasnt 
working, I consider  that she would have found the cover useful.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. It also looks  like it was affordable. On balance  I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs J off taking out the cover. 
 My conclusion  is that the policy was not mis-sold to Mrs J.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mrs J paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs J back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs J now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176214