K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  how NRAM Limited  dealt with an overpayment  on their 
mortgage account.
background
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage  with NRAM and on 4 June 2018 they made  a lump sum 
overpayment over the phone using a debit card.
On 11 June 2018 Mrs C phoned NRAM as she hadnt received the letter shed been 
expecting confirming the overpayment and setting  out their new monthly payment going 
forward.
Mr and Mrs C say there were two calls on 11 June and in the first  at about  9.30am  Mrs C 
was told there was no record of the overpayment being received. She said that left her in 
shock, and she was worried how she would tell Mr C and their family the money was 
missing. They say it was only when Mrs C called back later that day that she was told NRAM 
had found the overpayment but it hadnt  been  credited as NRAM needed to know  if they 
wanted to pay it off the mortgage or the linked loan account. NRAM says there was only one 
call on 11 June  at about 9.30am - and its provided a copy of the call recording for that.
Our adjudicator listened to that call and considered  all the submissions. Having done so he 
didnt think NRAM had done anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr and Mrs C have said the call on 4 June  2018  when Mrs C made the overpayment  should 
be listened to as they think that could cast a different light on things. This service  is impartial  
between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this means is that we 
dont represent  either  party, and I dont  act under eithers instructions or take directions on 
how a complaint will be looked at or what evidence should be requested.  
Im satisfied I dont need to listen to that call as it wont make a difference to the overall 
outcome of their complaint, Ill explain why.
Even if Mrs C had been told the overpayment would take effect  within 24 hours  and a letter 
would be sent out immediately that would have been  a mistaken statement of fact; a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer  in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct.  
Ref: DRN79984052The correct  information  would have been  that;
it could take up to 24 hours for the overpayment to go through;  that is, leave the funding  
bank account,
it would take 5 working days for the overpayment to be processed onto the mortgage 
account and the new monthly  payment be recalculated,
a letter  could only be sent once that process  had completed as the letter  would contain 
details of the new monthly  payment,  
despite the time it would take for the overpayment  to process it would be backdated to 
the date it was actually paid for interest purposes  so thered be no loss due to the delay, 
and
the new monthly  payment would take effect from the month  after the overpayment, so 
an overpayment  in June 2018 would mean the monthly payment  due in July 2018 would 
reduce.
Thats the position Mr and Mrs C were already in as everything happened as it should have, 
and so there was nothing  for NRAM to correct  as there was no financial loss.
Mr and Mrs C have said they should  get an apology  and compensation for the worry and 
stress of believing the money was missing,  but I cant  see NRAM ever led them  to believe 
that. Mrs C says there were two calls on 11 June  but thats not supported by the evidence.
Mrs C says the first call was at about  9.30am  and then she made a later call on her next 
break. NRAM has provided a copy of the call that took place at about  9.30am and that 
doesnt support  Mrs Cs recollections of the call content. Nor does it support any potential  
allegation that this was the second  call, and there was an earlier call that NRAM hasnt  
provided to us.
Having listened  to the call its clear this was the first call since  the overpayment  had been 
made. Had Mrs C already been told earlier that same day that the money was missing  then 
the call would have  gone very differently and I would have expected Mrs C to make  some 
reference to that, or there to have been  some sense of relief  that the money had been 
found. Instead Mrs C simply says she made the overpayment a week ago and hadnt  
received anything in writing. Mrs C also says that in the second call she was told the money 
had been found and was asked whether she wanted  to make the overpayment to the 
mortgage or to the linked loan account;  again neither of these happened.
There was some confusion as Mrs C didnt seem to take in what  the call handler said. The 
call handler said NRAM had received the overpayment and there were notes to say 
Mr and Mrs C wanted to use that to reduce their monthly  payments,  he asked Mrs C to 
confirm that. Mrs C interrupted to say that she wanted to pay the money off the mortgage. 
The call handler again said that was what was happening and said he had a note that 
Mr and Mrs C wanted to reduce the monthly  payment.  To explain, the other  option would 
have been for the monthly payment to remain the same, and therefore the mortgage would 
be paid off sooner.
When Mrs C agreed  with that, the call handler  said the letter  hadnt  been sent out as the 
overpayment hadnt yet been  processed  and once the overpayment had been  processed the 
new monthly payment  could be calculated and the letter issued. At Mrs Cs request the call 
handler worked out an estimated revised monthly  payment, and the call ended well with 
Mrs C seemingly going away  happy.
Ref: DRN79984053Having listened  to the call theres no mention of the overpayment being  lost and/or found, 
and the call handler didnt ask Mrs C whether the overpayment was to be made to the 
mortgage account or loan account. Instead he confirmed  NRAM had the money, was 
processing it, already  knew what Mr and Mrs C wanted to do with it, and said a letter  would 
be sent once it had been processed.  Theres  nothing  in that call to indicate  an earlier call 
had happened, and the time the call happened  matches with when Mrs C says the first call 
took place.
The overpayment was processed about an hour and a half after Mrs Cs call, and that 
always would have  happened even if she hadnt  called. Once the overpayment was 
processed the confirmation letter  was sent out. The overpayment  was backdated to 4 June 
so Mr and Mrs C werent financially disadvantaged by the processing time as less interest 
was charged from that date.
Mr and Mrs C have questioned why they still made a higher payment  at the end of June. 
Thats easy  to answer; its because that was their contractual  payment due in June, and 
NRAMs rules  are that the payment will adjust from the following month.  That makes sense 
as otherwise consumers  that pay at the start of a month would be treated differently from 
consumers that pay at the end of the month, as the consumer paying at the start of a month 
would already have made  their higher payment. 
If Mr and Mrs C normally  paid their mortgage on the 1st of each month, then they still would  
have made  the (higher) payment on 1 June, and then the new lower  amount  would  have 
taken effect from their 1 July payment. Its only because  Mr and Mrs C pay at the end of 
each month  it made it seem NRAM had unduly delayed reducing the monthly payments.
It also stops confusion  where a monthly  payment is due only days  after an overpayment  is 
made. Its easier to have  the same  rule for everyone,  and that is that the monthly  payment  
will adjust the month  after an overpayment is made  (unless the overpayment is close to the 
end of the month as our adjudicator has explained).
As the overpayment was backdated to 4 June this means Mr and Mrs C were  charged less 
interest for most of June,  and so their (still higher) payment they made at the end of June 
meant more money  came off the outstanding  capital  of their mortgage. When  Mr and Mrs C 
made the overpayment  their interest was immediately recalculated. The fact the contractual 
monthly repayment didnt  change  until July had absolutely no impact on the amount of 
interest being charged in June as theyre  two different things.
Everything that happened is fairly standard industry  practice for mortgages and what Id 
expect to see. Theres nothing in the contract  to say NRAM would deal with overpayments 
any other way, and as its not doing anything Id view as unusual  in the mortgage market I 
cant reasonably  say its done anything  wrong here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Ref: DRN79984054Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7998405