K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by a claims  management company (CMC) complains  that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  refused her claim under section 75 Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 in respect of a mis-sold timeshare.
Background
In August  2009  Mrs W purchased timeshare points costing £15,735 funded by a fixed  sum 
loan agreement from a company I will call R. She settled the loan in 2010.  She and her late 
husband had previously purchased points in 2002  and the subsequent sale took place while  
they were on holiday.  In  December 2017  the CMC complained to Clydesdale. It said the 
product had been misrepresented for a number of reasons. Clydesdale rejected the claim 
and said it was time barred under the Limitation  Act due to it being made more  than six 
years after the event. 
The CMC brought  the complaint to this service.   It said that Mrs W had been subjected  to a 
hard sell and a number of misleading claims had been made.  It said she was told the resorts 
were for members  exclusive  use and that she was acquiring an investment. She had 
believed she would  be given  priority  booking, but this had not been the case.  No account of 
her age was taken and it had been  difficult to exit from the agreement. It added that 
maintenance charges had increased dramatically. It argued R had ad been reckless and 
negligent and had failed to carry out due diligence. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She explained that under section 75 Clydesdale was jointly  and severally liable. She 
then considered the matter of time limits. She concluded Clydesdale had been correct in 
concluding the claim had been  made  out of time. 
The CMC didnt agree and made  a lengthy  submission. In summary this argued that the 
adjudicator had erred in not taking into account the unknown commission paid by Clydesdale 
which meant that sections  32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the Limitation Act had effect. That meant the 
point from which the clock began running was October 2017 when Mrs W took professional 
advice. It also argued  that the contract was a long term one and this was concealed from her 
and so she wasnt aware of this until later.
It added that the affordability assessment was almost certainly flawed  and not having seen 
this her right to complain  would not be time barred. She hadnt realised the nature of the 
product she had purchased and it was only in 2017  was she aware she had cause for 
complaint. It said there was an unfair  debtor creditor relationship due to Clydesdale not 
disclosing the commission paid.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the information provided to us in order  to reach a fair and reasonable
outcome on this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Id like to
explain my reasons for this.
Firstly, I will address the banks claim that the complaint is out of time under our rules  set out
Ref: DRN70160952in DISP 2.8.2(2)
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is Clydesdales  decision on 15
December 2017  to decline the claim Mrs W made regarding  the timeshare, rather than the
sale itself. She complained on 25 April 2018,  which is well within the six year time limit
specified in the rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at Mrs Ws complaint, as it has been brought within the
time limits set under  DISP  2.8.2(2).  So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is
that Clydesdale would  not look into the claim under the Limitation Act.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mrs W
has a like claim against Clydesdale  just as Mrs W would  have  against  the supplier.  So, if 
the claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, 
then that is something  Clydesdale  could  take into account when it considered  Mrs Ws 
claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Mrs W 
says the timeshare he bought was misrepresented to her. Under the Limitation  Act, she had 
six years  from the date upon which she suffered  a loss as a result of the misrepresentation 
to bring his claim.
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, I need to work out when it would
start if the claim  had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. In this case,  given the nature of
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mrs W suffered a financial loss as a result of
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
Mrs W says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, she paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  her to suffer a loss. She says that but for the 
misrepresentation, she wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
Ref: DRN70160953So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which
was in August  2009. Thats the moment when she accepted any potential  benefit under the
contract, and it was also the moment she accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mrs W
needed to raise a claim no later than August 2014. As I understand it, Mrs W raised her 
claim in late 2018, which  is some nine years  after the loss occurred.
She has said she wasnt aware he could raise  concerns about  the misrepresentation until
much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such  as this, start to run
from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date she became aware that something
might have gone wrong. I can see the investigator also considered  s.14A of the LA and
whether it made a difference  to the outcome  of this complaint. I am not persuaded s.14A
applies in this case so I will not comment on it further.
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into the
complaint. Under  s.140A,  the courts may make  an order  under section 140B in connection
with a credit  agreement if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor  and debtor
arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors.  Only a court
has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is unfair, but it
is relevant law we need  to take into consideration.
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mrs W would
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended  to bring her claim. From
the information I have, the finance agreement ended  in August 2010 so a s.140A claim
needed to be raised no later than August 2016.  As I understand  it, Mrs W raised  her claim in
late 2018, which is more  than eight years after the finance agreement  ended.
The CMC has raised  the issue of s 32 of the Limitation Act. Typically, s.32 applies to 
fraudulent misrepresentation but it does  extend  to concealment.  However, Mrs W has raised 
a range of issues as grounds for complaint over and above  concealment  which could have 
been discoverable earlier. As such I consider she would  have  discovered  or ought to have  
been able to discover that something had gone  wrong much earlier and I dont consider the 
limit should  be extended  as suggested.  I would add that the CMC has not established that 
there was concealment of commission or that this created an unfair relationship.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mrs W may have against the
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Mrs Ws misrepresentation claim against  the
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more  than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would  not be unreasonable for Clydesdale  to take
this into account  when considering the s.75 claim against it.
So, given that the claim now is more than likely  time barred under the Limitation Act, I think
Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision I that I do not uphold  this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 July 2021.
Ref: DRN70160954Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7016095