K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs V have  complained that Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF)  mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V were  sold the PPI at the same  time as arranging  their mortgage through  a 
broker in 2005.  The broker was an appointed  representative of AMF, which is why the 
complaint has been set up against AMF.
AMF originally said that it wasnt responsible for the sale because  the broker was acting  
outside its authority  when  it sold the policy. AMF also said that Mr and Mrs V had brought  
their complaint too late.
Another ombudsman  looked at these  issues and decided that AMF was responsible for the 
sale and that the complaint had been made  in time,  meaning that this service could look at it. 
Although AMF disagreed with the ombudsmans findings, it did accept them. That therefore  
meant that the issue of whether the PPI had been  mis-sold could  finally reviewed.
 
Therefore, our adjudicator subsequently looked  at the mis-sale complaint and upheld it in 
Mr and Mrs Vs favour. AMF disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs V took out the policy during a meeting. Looking through the available paperwork 
from the sale, there is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs V wanted PPI. The Fact Find 
shows that they answered No when asked if they required a quote for accident, sickness  
and unemployment  cover, with the reason being  given  as Not interested . The brokers  
recommendation letter talks about the mortgage product and life and critical illness cover,  
but makes no mention  of PPI.
The only mention of the policy is in a Solicitors Form of Authorisation, which does  mention a 
deduction of £4,125 from the mortgage advance  to pay for the PPI. This is amongst  a list of 
other fees being  deducted, most of which the couple  have  no choice about paying. So I 
agree with our adjudicator that this document is insufficient to demonstrate  that 
Mr and Mrs V consented to the PPI.
AMF have pointed out that the key facts illustration (KFI)  states that the only insurance 
required as a condition  of the mortgage  is buildings insurance. It says that this service has 
previously accepted that such  a statement is enough to conclude  that the PPI was presented 
as optional. I would agree that sometimes I might conclude that such a document, in 
combination with other evidence, might persuade me that that was the case. But in this 
instance, the evidence suggests  that Mr and Mrs V actively declined  the PPI  so they would 
Ref: DRN75850212have known they had a choice about it from the options they were given - and yet somehow 
it was still added to their mortgage  account. In that scenario, it wouldnt make  a difference  
that Mr and Mrs V may have seen the wording in the KFI, given that they had already seen 
the yes/no options in the other documentation. It seems to me that the information  about 
the optional nature of the policy was ultimately undermined.
AMF has returned to its original argument that it wasnt  responsible for the sale to explain 
the lack of available evidence. It says that the broker was acting outside its network 
permissions when it sold the PPI as the provider of the policy  was not from AMFs approved 
panel  so the broker wasnt using  AMF forms. Therefore it shouldnt be surprising now that 
it is unable to produce paperwork for a policy that was arranged  outside of its network.
Mr and Mrs V have  also provided paperwork that they have from the sale (and also 
additional paperwork from when  they re-mortgaged in 2007). Interestingly they have  
provided exactly the same point  of sale documentation as AMF has been able to supply. 
There are no additional  forms showing that they consented to PPI or that the broker was 
recommending that they should  take out PPI.
Also, if there was a separate PPI application  form, it would have been  odd for Mr and Mrs V 
to have declined  PPI on one set of forms and then to have agreed to it on another.  I think  
this is something that Mr and Mrs V would probably have challenged at the time had that 
been the case. On balance, given the available evidence, I am not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs V consented to buying  the policy.
This finding is enough on its own for me to uphold the complaint. However, for the sake  of 
completeness, I will also explain a further reason that would cause the complaint to be 
upheld.
This was an advised  sale, therefore AMF had to ensure that the policy  met Mr and Mrs Vs 
needs. 
AMF has said that theres no evidence  to support what Mr V has said about being  entitled  to 
six months sick pay from his employer. It has also said that the adviser did take 
Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances into account because it is clear  that their primary objective of 
reducing their monthly outgoings was achieved.
I accept that, given their circumstances,  the couple  did have some identified  need for PPI. 
But it is the type of PPI policy that they were sold that is the problem, because the adviser 
doesnt appear to have  taken the entirety of their circumstances  into account.
As AMF has also said, Mr and Mrs V were  re-mortgaging from another  lender so that they 
could consolidate  debt, even though they had to pay a financial penalty to redeem that 
mortgage within the fixed rate period. AMF has also said that the couple  appear to have 
raised further borrowing several times  in the past. 
The single premium  policy cost £4,125  and Mr and Mrs V borrowed this extra  amount  
upfront to pay for it. Therefore Mr and Mrs V would be paying for the policy,  plus interest, for 
the whole  term of the borrowing, significantly increasing its cost. Mr and Mrs V took the 
mortgage out over 23 years. But the policy only covered Mr V for the first five years.  So even 
after the policy had finished, theyd still be paying  for it. Also,  if the policy was cancelled 
early, its unclear whether Mr and Mrs V would  have received a proportionate refund of the 
premium amount.
Ref: DRN75850213A regular  premium policy wouldnt have attracted any interest and wouldnt have had any 
ongoing costs  after the end of the cover period.  Also it could have been cancelled  without 
financial penalty. 
AMF have argued that, as Mr and Mrs V were  consolidating debt,  they would have been 
aware that by doing so they would be lengthening the term of the debt and would  have been  
aware that this would also attract  interest,  suggesting that they would therefore also have 
been comfortable with the idea of paying interest on a single premium policy. However,  
whilst I can understand them being  willing to pay more over a longer term for existing debt, 
in return for reducing  their monthly  outgoings, Im not persuaded that the couple would have 
agreed to borrow another £4,125 on top of their already sizeable debt, especially if they had 
fully appreciated  the ongoing costs,  or furthermore, that they didnt have to borrow  that extra 
money at all, but could have paid for a monthly premium policy instead.
Given Mr and Mrs Vs known propensity to refinance, a single premium policy was not 
suitable for them. The adviser  should  have considered Mr and Mrs Vs borrowing history  and 
therefore the strong likelihood that they would be re-mortgaging  again.  If he had done so, he 
would have appreciated that a single premium  policy was an unsuitable  recommendation as 
it did not meet Mr and Mrs Vs needs.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs V were told the important  information about  the implications of a 
single premium policy or if they were given the option to buy a regular premium policy. But I 
find it hard to conclude that, in their circumstances, if they had been properly informed about 
the full costs of the policy and that theyd still be paying for it after it had expired, theyd have 
thought it was good value  for money. So I dont think Mr and Mrs V would have bought the 
PPI. It follows  that this is another reason for upholding the complaint.
AMF have said that the policy  document that would have been sent to Mr and Mrs V 
afterwards explained  the 30 day cooling off period, so the couple could have cancelled  the 
policy then if they didnt want it. In accordance with long held standards of good  industry  
practice, documentation sent after the initial sales process will not necessarily be sufficient to 
overcome any misrepresentations that were made during the sale. Arranging  a mortgage 
tends to be a slightly  drawn out process that generates a lot of paperwork. Mr and Mrs V 
were entitled  to rely on what they were told by the adviser at the time and so Im not 
persuaded that documentation sent to them afterwards  would  have been  enough  to override 
what they were told (or werent told) during their meeting with the adviser.  
As I have said above, my finding that Mr and Mrs V werent given a clear choice about taking 
out the policy is enough in itself for me to uphold the complaint. AMF have made a number 
of detailed points  in defence of this complaint. I havent addressed  them all here but I can 
assure the parties that I have  read and considered all of the evidence  provided. Having done 
so, I have decided  to uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs V borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. They  paid more than they should have each month and it cost them  more  to repay the 
loan than it would have. So Mr and Mrs V need  to get back  the extra theyve  paid.
So, AMF should:
Ref: DRN75850214Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs V the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs V the difference between what it cost to pay off the 
loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs V paid from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs V made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  AMF can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AMF to take off tax from this interest. AMF must give 
Mr and Mrs V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint  and require Advance  Mortgage 
Funding Ltd to pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7585021