K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of his car
insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes their agents.
During his dealings with RSA and in bringing his complaint to our service, Mr L has been
assisted by his father  who has made representations on his behalf. But for ease of reference
Ill refer to all comments as being those of Mr L.
background
In July 2017, Mr L took out a telematics  (also known as a black  box) car insurance  policy
with RSA. The black box installed  on his car would measure a range of driving behaviours
and points would be awarded, which could result  in Mr L either  being  rewarded or penalised
depending on how he drove. If his driving  was deemed to be good he would get financial
bonuses and also get a discount off his premium the following year if he renewed with RSA.
Soon after the policy  started, Mr L raised  a number concerns with RSA about the accuracy
of the data produced by the black box, which he said had a negative effect on his driving
score. He felt the black box wasnt working  as it should.
When RSA looked  into it they accepted that due to a fault, two sets of journeys had merged
into one. This happened  on at least two separate occasions in July and September 2017.  In
September 2017, RSA replaced  the black box with a new one and offered Mr L £50
compensation. RSA also did a firmware update  which they said resolved the problem of
journeys merging. RSA also said they removed the relevant journey data to avoid any
negative impact on Mr L. But Mr L said the faults continued and he said he believed the new
black box was also faulty and was providing wrong data.
On several occasions  Mr L was penalised  for driving  over the speed  limit on a number of
20mph roads. But Mr L, using dash cam footage from his car, was able to prove that the
data generated  by the black box was in fact wrong, and on the dates and times RSA said he
was speeding,  he was in fact driving  within the speed limit. He was also able to prove that he 
wasnt driving on the roads RSA, having relied  on the data, said he was. Faced with the
evidence Mr L provided, RSA accepted there  had been errors  and said they corrected the
data to avoid any negative impact on Mr L.
Mr L complained. In addition to his belief that the black box was faulty, he said:  the customer
service was poor, in particular he was misinformed;  he believed RSA were manipulating data
thereby reflecting badly on his driving  score resulting in him being deprived of rewards; he
wasnt provided enough information about how RSA assessed driving behaviours, such  as
speed, smoothness of driving and usage; he could only access  his data on his mobile  and
not on his desktop or laptop;  his scores and rewards would change  overnight and
appear/disappear intermittently; and when  he bought more miles during his policy  he was
overcharged.
RSA said the problem with the journeys merging was a glitch and the likely cause was the
need for a firmware update, which was done.  They said the problem with the data wrongly
showing Mr L speeding was an issue with the GPS  and not the black  box. They said the
original black box was working properly and didnt  have  to be replaced,  but it was replaced
Ref: DRN71062152because thats  what Mr L wanted. They said they should have explained the firmware issue
to Mr L but they didnt.  RSA said the second  black box was working properly and that they
believed the data it generated was accurate. RSA said that when Mr L bought extra  miles he
was charged correctly. RSA accepted the service was poor and that they had misinformed
Mr L at various points. They said they could  have responded to Mr Ls queries more
promptly and should have given him full explanations. RSA accepted  that their actions
caused Mr L to lose confidence in the black box and RSAs staff.  They  offered Mr L a total of
£300 compensation. RSA also told Mr L that he could, if he wanted,  cancel  his policy  without
penalty and that he would  only be charged  for the time he was on cover. In fact they said
they would  only charge  him until 15 December 2017, the date he made  his complaint.
Mr L didn't think that was fair so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators
looked into the complaint. She felt that RSA had dealt  with the complaint fairly, so she didnt
think that RSA needed  to do anything  further.  As Mr L didnt  agree  with our adjudicator, the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 17 June 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
the black box and the accuracy of the data
Soon after the installation  of the black box, Mr L questioned its functionality  and 
disputed the accuracy  of the data produced. RSA have accepted  that inaccurate data 
was generated  by two separate events - the merging of journeys and the locations of 
where Mr L was allegedly speeding.  And those events happened on multiple  
occasions. The inaccurate data had a detrimental  effect on Mr Ls driving  score. 
Those instances were  corrected by RSA to remove their negative  impacts. But, 
importantly, the identification  of those  events and the correction of the inaccurate 
data only came about because of Mr Ls efforts in gathering evidence  and persisting 
with RSA. Had he not done that I think those errors wouldnt have been picked up 
and Mr L would have  been penalised.
Im aware that Mr L has invested a lot of time and effort in gathering evidence, for 
example the dash cam footage which he downloaded and made  available  to RSA.  Mr 
Ls actions have  been worthwhile because  they have helped  him in his cause, but I 
dont think Mr L should have been expected to police the accuracy of the data. He 
paid RSA the premium  he was asked to pay. And in exchange he had every  right to 
expect the equipment to function properly  and for accurate data to be produced.  
Especially given how crucial that data was as it could have led to financial penalties 
and a higher premium  had Mr L renewed the policy with RSA.
While RSA insist that the two black  boxes were working properly and that the first 
fault was to do with a firmware  update  being  needed  and the second a GPS issue,  I 
think that is irrelevant.  The fact is, and RSA have  admitted, that inaccurate data led 
to Mr L being  penalised  because of the system installed by RSA. And RSA are 
responsible for that.
RSA have also accepted that Mr L lost faith in the black box device. But that includes 
the whole  system that was set up of which the black box was a part of. For example, 
Ref: DRN71062153Mr L has challenged the number of times he was penalised with low scores for not 
driving smoothly. He produced a number  of dash cam clips showing what he said 
was good driving  to counter RSAs  claims that he wasnt driving smoothly  on a 
number of occasions. But RSA said that they didnt base their assessment of his 
driving on the footage but the data produced by the black box, irrespective of what  
the footage showed.  Mr L said the black box wasnt accurately reflecting his driving 
behaviour. But, given the occasions that RSA accepted the data produced was 
wrong, I can understand why Mr L didnt have confidence in the equipment or the 
data.
While it was possible for Mr L to prove  the inaccuracy of the data showing merged 
journeys and the inaccurate locations of where  he was said to be speeding,  I think  
that other  than producing footage of his driving, proving the data generated about the 
smoothness of his driving was inaccurate  wasnt possible without expert evidence. 
Perhaps expert technical evidence could have shed light on how well the equipment  
was working, and the accuracy of the data. But putting the onus on Mr L to get further 
evidence was, in my view,  unfair. Given the serious errors Mr L had already 
evidenced, I agree with him that the data wasnt reliable. I think RSA could have had 
the black box and the equipment assessed  independently to alleviate his concerns, 
but they didnt do that.
Given the above, Im intending to uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint. I intend to 
require RSA to treat Mr L as though he acquired the highest points score possible for 
the policy year on the basis  of good driving.  Thats  because  the reliability of the data 
has been proven  to be in doubt.  I think its therefore possible that Mr Ls low scores 
were wrongly recorded. He should therefore be given  the benefit  of the doubt. On 
that basis, RSA should  pay Mr L the financial rewards  he would have been entitled  to 
had he got the highest  score.  Simple interest should be added to any such payments  
from the date(s) they were due until payment  is made.
I also intend to require RSA to award  Mr L the highest possible  percentage  discount  
on the basis that he attained the highest  possible score for good driving. On that 
basis RSA should  calculate what Mr Ls premium would have been for the 2018  to 
2019 policy year with the maximum percentage discount. I understand Mr L took out 
a policy  with another insurer  for the 2018  to 2019 policy year.  If that other premium 
was higher than the premium RSA would  have charged Mr L for that same year, then 
RSA should pay Mr L the difference. Any such payment  should  include simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date Mr L paid for his new policy  until payment is 
made.
the confusing  information on the dashboard
Mr L said his scores  and rewards would change overnight, and would appear and 
disappear intermittently. He said he believed RSA were manipulating the data to 
reflect badly  on him so that he wouldnt get financial rewards.
To illustrate  the problem, Mr L provided screen  shots of data in relation to a journey 
over a weekend in February 2018.  The data shows the financial bonus he got and 
also the percentage premium discount he was on track to receive  on renewal. But the 
screen shots show how the information  disappears and then returns on several 
occasions.
Ref: DRN71062154RSA said this happened because of the way their systems are set up and that 
changes might happen to the information during updates. They  accepted this could 
be confusing and inconvenient to Mr L. They also said they are looking into ways of 
improving their systems. But they said, notwithstanding  the confusion, the correct 
scores and rewards were given to Mr L.
From the information available, I dont believe RSA manipulated the data to deprive  
Mr L of his rewards. But I do agree with Mr L that the behaviour of the system caused 
confusion and inconvenience. Im therefore  upholding  this part of the complaint. My 
intended compensation of RSA awarding  Mr L maximum financial rewards and 
percentage discount based on good  driving, as explained above, will ensure that Mr 
L wont lose out on rewards. And my intended  compensatory award, below,  takes 
into account the inconvenience this aspect of RSAs service caused.
lack of access to data on Mr Ls desktop  and laptop
Mr L said he wasnt able to gain access to his data on his desktop and laptop 
computers, although  he was able to on his mobile.  RSA said that as he was able to 
gain access on his mobile, there wasnt a problem on their end. But they said they 
would be happy  to look into it if Mr L wanted  to continue with his policy.  I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence to show that this was a problem  caused by RSA.  And 
while I accept it may have been  an inconvenience,  Mr L was still able to access  his 
data on his mobile. So Im not intending  to uphold this part of the complaint.
lack of information about how RSA assess driving  behaviours
While there  is some  information on their website,  I dont think RSA provided Mr L with
sufficient information  about how driving  behaviours  are assessed and what actions 
cause low scores. The policy  is aimed  at new,  young drivers and their driving 
behaviours are recorded. Certain behaviours lead to poor scores  and penalties. So I 
think its important for as much information  as possible to be provided from the 
beginning so that drivers  know  what they have to do to avoid poor scores. For 
example, RSAs website  says: We look at the following aspects of your driving:  The 
time of day, the number of journeys & how long they are. I am aware that some 
other black box insurers consider night  time/early  morning driving  to be a higher risk 
which can lower the score. But I couldnt  find any readily available  guidance  on 
RSAs website as to what times of the day attract lower scores. Likewise, there  is 
mention of the number of journeys, but again I couldnt find any readily available
information if, for example, four journeys a day would indicate high usage meaning  
higher risk thereby reducing scores,  or if ten journeys would attract  a detrimental 
score. I am aware that some insurers send their policyholders guides on black  box 
policies where  detailed information  is given  about  what behaviours attract  
higher/lower scores with illustrated  examples.  But Im not aware that RSA provided 
such information to Mr L. So I don't  think  they gave enough information with which Mr 
L could ensure  he was driving well, as defined by his policy.
Im therefore  intending to uphold this part of the complaint. My intended  
compensatory award,  detailed below, covers this aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
the charge for additional miles
Ref: DRN71062155When Mr L took out the policy  a limit of 3,000 miles for the policy  year was imposed. 
But during  the policy  year he bought  some  additional  miles.  The cost of additional 
miles was contained  in the literature supplied to Mr L when he took out the policy.  
The cost per additional 1,000  miles was on a sliding scale. For someone who had the 
highest score for good driving the additional  miles cost less than someone who had 
the lowest score as a result of poor driving.
Given my intended resolution  of RSA awarding  Mr L the highest score  for the entirety  
of the policy  year due to the unreliability of the data,  as described above, I intend to 
require RSA to recalculate the cost of the additional miles Mr L bought  and to charge 
him on the basis that at the time he bought more miles, he had the highest score. 
That would mean he would have been  charged the lowest amount on the sliding  
scale. I intend to require RSA to refund Mr L the difference between what  he actually 
paid for the additional miles and what the lowest cost of the miles was for someone 
on the highest score. Simple interest  at 8% a year should be added  to that amount 
from when Mr L paid for the miles until he is refunded.
no claims bonus (NCB)
This policy was Mr Ls first. When RSA sent him their final response letter  they gave 
him the option  to cancel the policy without any financial penalties.  At the time of 
RSAs letter  Mr L still had around four months  left to run on his policy.
To gain a full years  NCB  Mr L would  have had to have completed the full policy  year 
with RSA without  any claims. And had Mr L taken up RSAs  offer and cancelled  the 
policy before  the full policy  term, he wouldnt  have  got a full years NCB.  Mr L 
interpreted RSAs letter as wrongly  saying that he could get a full years NCB if he 
cancelled early. While I think RSAs letter on this point could have been clearer,  I 
note that the day after the letter during  an email  exchange RSA clarified the point 
confirming Mr L couldnt get a full years NCB if he cancelled early. Im therefore  not 
intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
data collated by RSA
Mr L said he was concerned that RSA would share any poor driving data relating to 
him with other insurers which might  affect  him in the future.  But RSA assured  Mr L 
that they wouldnt do that and the data they collated  about his driving was solely for 
their use in scoring his driving for rewards or penalties and for a possible discount on 
renewal. Given RSAs assurance, I dont intend  to ask them to do anything further.
poor service
RSA accepted that their service could have  been  better. To address that they offered 
Mr L a total of £300 compensation.  But I dont think that went  far enough, especially 
given the substantial time and effort Mr L had to invest  in gathering  evidence,  which  
he successfully used  to convince RSA that some of the data used to reduce his score 
was inaccurate.  I also take into consideration that this matter has been ongoing for 
almost two years and that it has been  a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr 
L. I therefore intend to require RSA to pay Mr L a total of £500 compensation. This 
takes into account the poor service and the individual heads  of complaint that I intend 
to uphold as detailed above.
Ref: DRN71062156The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr L agreed with my provisional  
findings. RSA said:
They accept at the time the policy was sold to Mr L they could have been clearer  
about what factors might  impact  his usage  scores.
The data recorded by the black box was accurate. In support, RSA provided a 
technical statement  from a senior  telematics claims manager and a document  titled 
Dashcam vs Speedometer Test  June 2018. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the additional  comments as follows:
The technical statement RSA obtained was from an expert who is employed by RSAs 
telematics partner who provided  the device and maintained  the data, software and 
dashboard. While Ive taken into account the technical statement and its attachment,  I feel it 
would have been preferable for RSA to have obtained expert evidence from someone 
completely independent  from them.
The technical statement said I make this statement in connection with a complaint regarding 
data accuracy compared to comparison  with an alternative dash camera device equipped 
with GPS for display  of speed.  This suggests  the main remit was to counter  the accuracy of 
the speed Mr L was shown  to be driving in the dash cam footage he provided. 
The technical statement said Mr Ls dash cam footage couldnt be relied upon as being  
accurate for the purposes of showing the speed  he was driving  at any given time. The 
explanation given was: the process  a dashcam appears to take is to update  the speed 
reading at multiple  second intervals,  but what can be seen  on the dashcam in relation to the 
vehicle speed  it is not the current speed  of the vehicle, but a moving  average calculation.  A 
moving average means several samples are taken over a time period and the average 
speed across the samples is output  as the current speed. This will of course be inaccurate 
as the speed will only ever report an average  and not the actual speed at the time. 
But I didnt make a finding  that the dash cam footage provided by Mr L gave more accurate 
speed readings when compared  to the speed readings recorded  by the black box. My 
reliance on the dash cam footage was in relation to disproving the inaccurate data from RSA 
that showed Mr Ls car at wrong  locations  (GPS drift). Dash cam footage could also have 
been helpful in disproving inaccurate data of merged journeys. That was another data error 
RSA accepted had occurred. But I did say in my provisional findings that proving  the data 
generated about the smoothness of his driving was inaccurate wasnt  possible without expert 
evidence, which was one of the main reasons why Mr L produced dash cam footage.  But I 
didnt make a finding that the dash  cam footage provided by Mr L proved that his driving 
satisfied the smooth  driving criteria of RSA. 
The thrust of my provisional decision as to why I felt Mr Ls complaint should succeed  was 
based on the fact that he was successful in showing  at least  two separate  sets of data 
inaccuracies that had a detrimental affect on his driving score.
I note that the technical statement provided by RSA confirmed  that both black  boxes Mr L 
had installed  on his car were reviewed  and confirmed as a satisfactory  working device. It 
Ref: DRN71062157further confirmed  that the data generated by the devices was accurate, except of course  for 
the occasions where there were journey mergers  and the GPS drift problems. 
But the technical statement didnt categorically discount any other  possible data 
inaccuracies. The technical statement said the two black boxes were working satisfactorily. 
That is something that RSA have also said before. But while RSA said the black  boxes were 
functioning correctly,  they had also said some  of the data inaccuracies were  GPS related. 
From Mr Ls perspective, I dont think it gives him any relief to know that the black box was 
functioning satisfactorily while at the same time inaccurate data was being recorded  due 
anther problem, such as the GPS or firmware.  In my provisional  findings I said: RSA  have 
also accepted  that Mr L lost faith in the black box device. But that includes the whole system 
that was set up of which the black box was a part of.
My view remains the same that given  the issues Mr L experienced and the proven data 
inaccuracies, and given his loss of faith in the device, he should  be given the benefit of the 
doubt. My view is further reinforced by the fact that RSA have accepted  that they should 
have provided  Mr L with more information at the start of the policy about what  factors  might  
impact his usage scores. So had he been  provided with adequate  information  from the start,  
I think its likely that he would have  adapted  his driving habits  accordingly  and he would have 
got better  scores. So I think that by not giving him that information from the start, RSA 
disadvantaged Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Treat Mr L as though  he achieved the highest  possible score  for good driving during 
the policy year. As a result, RSA should  pay Mr L the financial rewards  he would 
have received for getting the highest  possible score. Simple  interest  at 8% a year 
should be added to that amount  from the date(s) he would have got those rewards 
until the date payment  is made.1
Pay Mr L the difference  between the premium  he paid for the 2018 to 2019 policy 
year with another insurer and the premium  Mr L would  have  paid if he renewed with 
RSA on the basis  that he attained the maximum percentage  discount. Any such  
payment is only to be made if the premium  Mr L paid the other insurer was higher.  
And if there is such a payment to be made,  simple interest at 8% per year should  be 
added from the date Mr L paid for his new policy until payment is made.
Pay Mr L the difference  between what he actually paid for the additional miles and 
what the lowest cost of the miles was for someone on the highest score  for good 
driving. Simple interest at 8% a year should  be added  to that amount from when Mr L 
paid for the miles until he is refunded.
1 If RSA consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr L how much they have taken  off. They  should  also him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN71062158Pay Mr L £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This total includes the £300 already offered to him. This should be paid within  28 
days of us telling them that Mr L has accepted my final decision. If they pay later than 
this they must also pay interest on that amount  from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7106215