K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC instructed  debt collectors to recover  a debt from 
her she didnt owe and recorded incorrect information about it on her credit  file.
background
In December 2018 Ms M started to receive telephone calls from a debt collection  company. 
She was told the calls were about an account she held with Lloyds. Ms M didnt have an 
account with Lloyds so she contacted it for further information.
Lloyds told Ms M the account had been held in the joint names  of her and her ex-husband. It 
admitted it had made an error several years ago. It had been asked to remove  Ms Ms name 
from the account but had removed her ex-husbands name instead so the account remained 
open in Ms Ms sole name and became overdrawn.
Lloyds agreed  to clear  the debt. It also paid Ms M £500 compensation and said it would 
remove any adverse information  from her credit file. It said the removal  of this information 
could take up to 60 days.
Ms M wasnt happy with Lloyds response to her complaint and referred  it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They thought Lloyds  
response to the complaint was fair and reasonable.
Ms M didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms M was very upset when she was contacted  by debt collectors  
about a debt that had nothing to do with her. But I think  Lloyds acted quickly when it became 
aware of the error it had made and that its actions were fair and reasonable.
Im satisfied that the sum of £500 Lloyds has paid Ms M is reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset  shes  suffered. Im not persuaded I could reasonably  require it to pay her 
any more.
Ms M says Lloyds hasnt  apologised  to her. I dont think this is correct.  Lloyds wrote to her in 
January 2019  saying  Im sorry for any upset or inconvenience youve experienced. I dont 
think it was necessary for Lloyds to say anything  in addition to this by way of apology.
Ms M has questioned whether Lloyds has removed  the information  about the debt from her 
credit file. Ive seen a print of a computer screen provided by Lloyds  relating  to information 
given to credit reference agencies  about  the account. This says record has been deleted 
which indicates Lloyds  has removed the information from Ms Ms credit file. I havent  seen 
any evidence that would  enable me to reasonably conclude  this hasnt been done.
Ref: DRN76679442Ms M has questioned why Lloyds was able to pass information about her to the debt 
collecting company.  The account terms and conditions allow Lloyds to share personal 
information with Agents who help us to collect what is owed to us. The account statements 
Ive seen dont  have Ms Ms current address  so I dont think  Lloyds would have passed that 
to the debt collection company. I think its likely  the debt collection company  made its own 
enquiries to find Ms Ms current  address.
Ms M has said shes dissatisfied with the way Lloyds responded to a subject  access request 
she made. I havent seen  sufficient evidence to enable me to conclude that Lloyds response 
to this request  was inadequate and, in any event, this type of complaint would be more 
appropriately handled by the Information Commissioner.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds  dealt with Ms Ms complaint fairly and 
reasonably and Im not going  to require it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7667944