K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 1997. Mr B says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr B and Barclaycard  say the policy was sold with a postal application for the credit card. 
Barclaycard shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure that Mr B knew  the policy  was 
optional. Mr B says he believes the PPI was compulsory.  
Barclaycard has provided a copy of Mr Bs application form. On the form it asks applicants  to 
tick a box to say yes or no to say if they want to take PPI and there is nothing to suggest  the 
policy was compulsory. On Mr Bs form the yes box has been ticked and Mr B has signed 
the application form. Ive noted Mr Bs comments about the wording used to describe the 
PPI. Having looked carefully at this, whilst the wording is suggesting  the policy is a good 
protection to have;  applicants still have the option to select no.
So I think Barclaycard  made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this. 
In my experience of how Barclaycard sold these  types of policies, it wouldnt have 
recommended the PPI to Mr B. So it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr B has told us 
he had generous sick pay benefits he could  have used so he didnt need the PPI policy.  Ive 
thought carefully  about what hes said, but its very unusual for an employer to provide  12 
months full sick pay.
I think its likely Mr B was entitled to some sick pay. But in my experience  and without any 
evidence to show otherwise  I think  its unlikely he would  have  received  the level of sick pay 
hes told us he was entitled to. And as the policy would have paid out alongside  any sick pay 
he did get, it would have been useful  for him if something went  wrong. Having the PPI 
wouldve also meant any savings Mr B had couldve been used to cover other essential 
costs if he found  himself too unwell to work or unemployed. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. Overall, I dont think  Mr B has lost out by 
anything Barclaycard might have  done wrong.
Ref: DRN73029112my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7302911