K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  declined debit and credit card transactions  
while she was abroad. 
background
In May 2018  Mrs D took a foreign holiday with her husband and took her Nationwide  debit  
and credit cards with her. While away Mrs D was unwell and made changes to their plans 
which meant she had to pay her travel  agent  and hotel. 
On 9 May 2018  Mrs D says she tried to pay her travel  agent online but both her credit and 
debit card transactions were blocked  by Verified by Visa (VbV)  and didnt go through.  
Mrs Ds husband went on to make  the payment. Mrs Ds explained  that VbV didnt attempt to 
contact her to verify whether the transactions were genuine. 
Mrs D says that on 10 May 2018 she tried to use her cards  to pay their hotel bill but they 
were both declined.  Mrs D has explained  that they had to use another  method of payment. 
When Mrs D returned from her holiday  she complained to Nationwide.  Nationwide  
responded and said the transaction to Mrs Ds travel agent had been declined  by VbV and 
that it had no control over that process.  Nationwide has also advised that it doesnt have any 
record of declining  other transactions or blocking Mrs Ds cards. 
Mrs D referred  her complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened. But they thought Nationwide had dealt  with the complaint fairly so didnt ask it to 
do anything else. Mrs D remains unhappy  and asked for her case  to be appealed so its 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the declined transaction caused  Mrs D a lot of stress  and upset while she was 
abroad. And I appreciate  that things wouldve been  easier if the card transactions she tried 
to make had gone  through  smoothly. But I have to be fair to both sides and Ive carefully 
considered whether Nationwides actions were reasonable  in this case. 
Ill start by looking at the credit card payment Mrs D attempted on 9 May 2018. Nationwide  
has provided systems evidence to show that the transaction was declined by VbV. I know 
Mrs D wasnt contacted  or sent a text before VbV took that step but Nationwides credit card 
terms do allow it to decline a payment if security  controls prevent it from carrying out the 
transaction. 
In this case, VbV is the security control that stopped  the payment being made. The terms 
dont say that Nationwide will always contact the customer before taking that step.  I agree 
that the information on Nationwides  website could be clearer  but Ive not found  it acted  
outside of the terms of Mrs Ds credit  card when her payment was declined on 9 May 2018. 
Ref: DRN77845302Nationwides told us that it has no record of other declined transactions for Mrs Ds credit  or 
debit card accounts. I understand that Mrs D says she attempted  to pay online using her 
debit card as well and that transaction was also declined. In situations  where  theres no 
evidence available  I consider a complaint based  on the balance of probability. That is, what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  based  on the information I have available. In this case, 
Mrs D says her online  debit  card transaction was declined but Nationwide  doesnt agree a 
payment was attempted. 
While I appreciate the strength of Mrs Ds feeling, I have to take on board that when her 
credit card payment was declined by VbV this was reported to Nationwide  and a record  was 
made. But no such record exists  for the attempted debit card payment. I think  its more  likely 
than not that if Nationwide or VbV had declined the debit  card payment to Mrs Ds travel 
agent it wouldve  been recorded. As no record of a decision to decline the payment exists, 
Ive not found  Nationwide made an error. 
Mrs D says her cards  were also declined when she tried to use them  at a hotel the following  
day. But Nationwides provided evidence that Mrs D used  her card at the hotel shes told us 
they were staying at on the date she says it was declined. I dont know  whether thats  the 
same transaction that Mrs D is complaining  about but I think  it does demonstrate that 
Nationwide didnt have  a block in place on her cards and that it was possible to use them. 
I also need to consider  the impact of the issues Mrs D has raised. I appreciate  Mrs D was 
unwell at the time and this caused  additional  stress. But shes  explained that there were 
alternative means of payments available. I agree there was some inconvenience  caused 
when the payment to Mrs Ds travel agent  was declined. But as I think  Nationwide declined 
that transaction legitimately I dont think it would be fair to award compensation. And as Ive 
been unable  to find any evidence that Nationwide was responsible for the other  transactions 
Mrs D attempted being declined  and an alternative  means of payment  was available, Im not 
telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 March  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784530