K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the compensation The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has offered 
to settle his complaint about a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out 
alongside a loan.
background
Mr W took out a loan in April 2006 and at the same  time bought a PPI policy. The premium 
to pay for the policy was added to his loan so he paid interest  on it. In August 2006 Mr W 
settled the loan early  and the PPI was cancelled.
In 2013 Mr W complained to RBS that the PPI had been mis-sold. RBS upheld his complaint  
and offered to pay him compensation of £680.30. At that time, Mr W didnt return  the 
acceptance form for the offer and the compensation wasnt paid.
In 2018 Mr W complained he may have paid too much commission with his insurance  
premium and complained  to RBS about that. RBS said in 2013 it had offered to refund all the 
costs of the PPI taken  out with his loan, which wouldve included the commission,  but the 
compensation had never been paid.  So it recalculated the amount of compensation, and with 
some additional  compensatory  interest it offered  £701.10 to settle Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt happy with the offer as he said he recalled being  offered £1,700.00 for the 
compensation in 2013.
RBS said it had nothing  to show Mr W was offered more than the £680.30 in 2013 and its 
calculation of the compensation was correct.  It had updated the compensatory  interest 
calculation in June  2018 to give a higher  amount of £701.10.
RBS also now said that Mr W had entered  an IVA in 2016 and a debt that he owed to RBS 
had formed part of that IVA and had not been fully cleared. So it was now going to use the 
compensation due to Mr W to pay towards the debts  that Mr W owed to RBS that had not 
been cleared at the end of the IVA in 2017.
Mr W wasnt happy with the offer amount  and also with what  RBS was now doing  with the 
compensation. When he brought his complaint to this service our adjudicator said what  RBS 
had offered and done was fair.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS agreed to uphold Mr Ws complaint that the PPI was mis-sold with his loan taken out in 
2006. So in this decision Im not looking at how the policy  came  to be sold,  Im only 
considering if the amount of compensation offered and if how it has been used is fair.
When a PPI policy is mis-sold I would expect  the compensation  to repay  all the costs  the 
consumer paid for the policy  and also pay some compensatory interest if a consumer has 
been out of pocket for those costs.
Ref: DRN70998182In this case Mr W took out the loan and PPI in 2006  and settled it only a few months later, 
cancelling the PPI. So he only made  the loan repayments for a few months.  During that time 
he paid £128.08  towards repaying the premium  for the PPI added  to his loan and interest on 
the premium.
When he settled the loan early and cancelled  the policy, RBS gave a refund of part of the 
cost of the premium.  This was taken  off the amount Mr W had to pay to settle  the loan. But 
there was still some  of the PPI premium  in the amount  Mr W paid as his lump  sum on 
settlement. This amount  was £338.96,  so RBS has also included  that as part of the 
compensation for the costs Mr W paid for the PPI. So the total costs, including  interest on 
the premium, are £467.04 and this is what RBS has included in the compensation its offered 
to Mr W.
When Mr W first complained about  the PPI being mis-sold in 2013  RBS offered £680.30 in 
total compensation. This included the PPI costs Ive indicated  and some  compensatory 
interest for being  out of pocket. As the offer wasnt accepted and never  paid to Mr W he was 
still out of pocket for the costs of the PPI. So when Mr W went back to RBS in 2018 it 
recalculated the offer to include  additional compensatory  interest  to the date of final 
settlement. 
However RBS has now used an updated  calculation  so whilst the costs of the PPI remain at 
£467.04, the compensatory interest  has been  further recalculated to January 2019 and the 
offer of compensation is now £841.38 in total.
Mr W has said he was sent letters by RBS in 2013 offering £1,700 in compensation. I have 
seen nothing to show this amount of compensation was ever offered for this particular PPI 
policy. RBS has no record of such an offer and only has its letters from 2013 showing its 
offer then for £680.30.  Mr W also hasnt been  able to provide copies of any correspondence  
showing an offer of £1,700.00.
An amount  of £1,649.73  was refunded in 2006  when the loan was settled early. This was a 
partial refund of the PPI premium which RBS made because  the policy didnt run to its full 
term. It may be Mr W is confusing this refund  with the amount of PPI compensation. 
However I have seen nothing to show  Mr W was made a higher  offer or that this amount of 
compensation is due to be paid to Mr W for the mis-sale of this PPI policy.
Since RBS made its original offer of compensation in 2013, Mr W has had some financial 
problems and entered into an individual  voluntary  arrangement  (IVA) in 2016. This was 
completed in 2017.
RBS now wants to use the compensation due to Mr W for the mis-sold  PPI to set against the 
debts that formed  part of the IVA but were  never  repaid. Mr W says this is unfair as his IVA 
has ended. He says RBS can no longer recover any money for the debts that may never 
have been fully cleared, as the IVA completion  said all creditors had been  satisfied and 
could no longer seek further payments  from him.
The IVA gives Mr W protection from being  chased  by his creditors  to repay the debts he 
owed any further.  But that doesnt  mean  the debts no longer existed.  
RBS cannot proactively take action against  Mr W for any of the debts that were  part of the 
IVA, but it is still owed money  by Mr W and RBS owes him the money for the compensation. 
Ref: DRN70998183So it can set these amounts against  each other and here that means  Mr Ws compensation 
will reduce  the debt still outstanding to RBS after the end of the IVA.
In summary  Im satisfied  that what RBS has offered as the compensation to settle this 
complaint about  the mis-sold PPI is fair. It has refunded all the costs paid by Mr W for the 
PPI and also provided some compensatory  interest.
I also think what RBS has done  with the compensation, setting it against the debt still 
outstanding with it, after closure of the IVA is also fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Im satisfied  that the compensation offered by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc, and what it has done with that compensation, is fair. So Im 
not telling  it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7099818