K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about thirteen payday loans Quick  Quid provided to Mr M from July 2008 
onwards. Mr Ms last loan was provided  in April 2010. 
Mr J was provided with ten further loans between June 2010  and November 2015.  But his 
complaint about  these  loans has already been resolved and so doesnt  form part of this 
decision.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been  able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr M could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN70813842Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr M, I think  that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr M was unlikely to have been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan five. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr M was into his seventh  month  of owing Quick Quid  money. In my 
view, Mr Ms loan history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement   hed incurred late 
fees on loan three and was provided  with loan four the day after he eventually  settled 
loan three. 
Mr M continued  to be provided  with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr M was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I accept that some  of the loans were for smaller amounts. But Mr Ms indebtedness 
was being prolonged  for an extended period of time. This led to Mr M paying large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr M owed Quick Quid  money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint and Quick Quid  should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  four to thirteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr M owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans four to thirteen is adverse. So all entries about these loans 
(where they remain) should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN70813843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7081384