K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mrs B says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg. But Barclays has now taken responsibility 
for this sale,  so Ill refer to Barclays in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs B says that she didnt  know the policy was optional. But I think Barclays  made it clear 
that Mrs B didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago. 
Mrs B applied for her card and policy online, and Barclays has shown that its sales process 
at the time presented the policy as optional  and that Mrs B wouldve had to make a choice 
before completing  her application. I havent  seen anything to suggest  that Barclays did 
anything differently with Mrs B when she applied for her card. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs B got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said, including what  shes  said about  getting 
excellent sick pay from her employer so she didnt need the PPI. But the PPI couldve paid 
out on top of Mrs Bs sick pay, and for longer than shed receive full pay for. So this point  
Ref: DRN73315352doesnt change  my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the PPI was 
mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7331535