K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed  to find his historical Capital 
Advantage savings  account which he says had a significant balance.
background
Mr B opened  a Capital  Advantage account at his local Barclays  branch with a deposit of 
£58,000 in 1989. He says that he hasnt touched the account for many years  and had kept 
the certificate of deposit in his safe to withdraw  the funds when he needed  them. In 2018,  he 
contacted Barclays  about the account  but it had no record of it. So he complained. Barclays 
looked into his complaint  but said it couldnt locate  the account  because of the passage  of 
time and didnt uphold the complaint overall. It apologised for delays and communications  
problems and paid Mr B £50 as compensation for this. Mr B was unhappy with this so he 
came to this service. But our investigator  didnt think the complaint should succeed so Mr B 
asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr B is very upset  to find 
there are no records of his account which he understood had a significant  balance. But 
based on the information I have,  I dont think the complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
Businesses arent obliged  to keep records for longer than six years. But despite  that, 
Barclays has made serious efforts to locate  Mr Bs account across  its business. I can see 
from the notes that its tried to get as much information as it could to identify how the account  
numbers wouldve changed  over time and what couldve  happened to the account and the 
balance when the local branch closed down. Its historical records show  that the Capital 
Advantage account had a name change to a 30 Day Saver  account in the 1990s. And its 
managed to find records of payments on other accounts Mr B held in 1998 that show 
transfers to and from a 30 Day Saver  account which could  be the account Mr B is looking 
for. Those indicate  large  transfers out of the 30 Day Saver account as well as a payment in. 
But it hasnt  found  records for the account  itself so it cant say for certain whats happened  to 
the balance on the account.
I understand this is very frustrating for Mr B, but in the circumstances, I think  Barclays has 
done all that could be expected of it to find information about the account. Based on the 
information it has, its impossible to say what happened to the balance on Mr Bs account  
over the years since 1989. 
Barclays apologised for delays in getting back to Mr B and paid him £50 for the time and 
inconvenience this caused him. I think this was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Ref: DRN72433232Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7243323