K821x#15complaint
This case is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr and Mrs B 
say Skipton Building Society, trading as Scarborough Building Society at the time, mis-sold 
them two such policies  in 2003, and again in 2004.  
Although their mortgage was a joint one, the MPPI covered only Mr B in the event of him 
losing his job or being unable to work. Mrs B was named  on the policy.
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to Skipton  BS.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this complaint said they thought  it should  be upheld because  
Mr B had a pre-existing medical condition  at the time of the sale.  The adjudicator  thought 
that this would have made  claiming  under the policy quite  difficult.
Skipton BS didnt agree  with this so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Im upholding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Skipton BS says it advised Mr and Mrs B during the course of the sale. This means  it had a 
duty to discuss their situation with them to establish the suitability  of what it was 
recommending they should buy. 
We now know that Mr B had been  significantly  injured at work in the 1990s  and had needed 
to take time off work.  The injury then re-occurred a few years  later and caused substantial 
and ongoing  pain which, under the terms of the MPPI, policy would have  been  categorised  
as a pre-existing medical condition.
The MPPI policy came with certain  rules about  this. It said,  for example, that he wouldnt be 
covered for any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or 
associated symptoms, whether diagnosed or not:
which you knew about, or should  reasonably have known about, at the start date, or 
which you had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  about, during the 12 months 
immediately before the start date.
Skipton BS says Mr B didnt mention the pre-existing condition  when he applied  for the 
mortgages. And it says in 2003 he signed  a declaration to say he hadnt seen a doctor in the 
previous 12 months.
However, this misses the point in my view, since the first part of the definition  (above)  clearly  
places the condition Mr B had in the pre-existing category. 
Ref: DRN76304532Ive also looked  at the declaration Mr B was asked to sign in 2003 and it only mentions 
whether he had cause to see a doctor  in the previous 12 months  it mentions nothing  about 
him still being caught by the much  wider symptoms, whether diagnosed or not. In short, 
my finding  on this is that his medical condition  was pre-existing as determined by the policy  
rules.
I turn then to the next sale, in 2004.  On this occasion the MPPI section of the mortgage  
application form refers  Mr B to read the MPPI policy booklet. I doubt very much whether  he 
would have done this during the telephone  application process although theres  no doubt his 
existing medical condition would have once  again been caught  under the policy rules.
Skipton BS places the responsibility  fully on to Mr B by saying he should have read through  
the policy booklet. However, the applications were  conducted over the phone and were  
advised sales. The 2003  application, in so much as it relates  to the MPPI,  is ambiguously  
worded and Mr B could  have honestly signed the declaration,  yet still have been caught by 
the exclusions about his health.  The 2004  application form contained even less information  
or choices.  In both cases Skipton BSs forms were  very poorly  laid out and simply werent  
clear enough.
So my finding  here is that Skipton BS failed in its duty to point out the main  things  that MPPI 
did and didnt cover   and I dont think the cover was suitable for Mr B on either occasion.
Given I think the MPPI wasnt suitable,  I next need  to think  about whether this would have 
changed what Mr and Mrs B went on to do. I see that in certain circumstances  mainly  
being symptom  free for a year  would have  made  a claim for Mr Bs condition  possible. But 
this would depend on his ongoing  good health,  and potentially,  whether he was being 
supervised medically, such as being prescribed drugs. He may well still have  had difficulties 
in claiming.
In my view, the short answer to this is that Mr and Mrs B simply werent given the information 
they ought to have  been given to make  an informed decision. And because  Mr B had already 
been off work twice  and suffered ongoing pain, I think they would have considered  this 
particular illness to have  been the most  likely cause of being  too ill to work in the future. 
I think if Mr and Mrs B had realised the pre-existing condition that he had been suffering from 
for quite  a few years  probably wasnt going to be covered in many  circumstances, they 
would have reconsidered what they wanted to do. I think  they would have thought the policy  
was poor value for money  and not something  they wanted to have.
Because of this Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
what I think Skipton BS should do to put matters right  
Skipton BS should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
MPPI in 2003 and 2004. It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get the amount 
back. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN76304533If Mr and Mrs B made any successful claims under the MPPI policy  Skipton BS can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  It can also take off any 
commission element it has already paid to them
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Skipton  BS to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr and Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I direct  Skipton 
Building Society to put matters right as above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7630453