K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss H bought the policy in 1999,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card online.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at screenshots of the online sales process Miss H wouldve used at the 
time of her sale. From that, I can see there wouldve been a section for PPI, which  gave an 
overview of what it was for and what it cost. Then there were  two options to choose from: 
one to buy the policy and one to turn it down. Both options look equally prominent, and 
neither one appears to have been  pre-selected. According to the electric  record  of Miss Hs 
application, she chose  the option to buy PPI, and this was reflected on her card statements 
going forward. So I think its most likely that Canada Square made  Miss H aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I understand 
if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H, so they didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Miss H enough  information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Miss H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, I think Miss H chose to take out the policy, so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And 
Miss H doesnt seem  to have had any other  comprehensive protection  in place in case  she 
was off sick or lost her job.
I understand Miss Hs family and friends  mightve  been more than willing  to help, but 
circumstances change  and there  was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when 
needed. And this policy  meant Miss H wouldnt have to ask her family or friends to pay her 
credit card. It also meant  she wouldnt have to use up her savings to pay off her card if she 
fell on difficult times.  So the policy would have  been  useful for Miss H if something  went 
wrong. Then  if her circumstances  changed  or she changed her mind,  Miss H could cancel 
the PPI at any time without a penalty.  So overall, I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI was likely to have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN76695912my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7669591