K821x#15Mr H complains that a car supplied  under  a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited (Moneybarn) wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants  to reject the car.
background
In March 2018 Mr H was supplied a used  car under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car was six years old and had covered over 83,000  miles at the point of 
supply.
Within a month of getting the car, the air suspension  needed  to be repaired by the 
dealership. Three  months later an automatic brake  fault code was displayed.  In early  
September 2018 the car broke down  due to turbo failure. The dealership would not carry out 
this repair  as it said Mr H had exceeded his warranty mileage. Mr H arranged for a third-
party garage to replace  the turbos.  Within a month of repair the turbos  failed again  and the 
engine seized.
Mr H complained to Moneybarn about  the quality of the car in November  2018.  Moneybarn 
arranged for an independent assessment, the report concluded the engine had failed and 
the fault would not have been  present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr H. 
Moneybarn did not uphold Mr Hs complaint.  It said it was not responsible as the engine  
failure was caused  by the third-party garage  of Mr Hs choice, not changing the oil feed 
pumps when it replaced the turbos.  The dealership offered  Mr H £500 towards the repair.
Mr H remained  unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  
recommended the complaint should  be upheld. She did not think the independent report  
considered the cars full history  since  supply.  Given the faults experienced during the first six 
months, she did not think the car was of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied  to Mr H. 
The investigator recommended  Mr H be allowed to reject the car, she asked Moneybarn to 
cancel the agreement and amend his credit  file. The investigator also asked Moneybarn  to 
refund the monthly instalments when Mr H was without the car, reimburse him consequential  
repair costs and pay him £350 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Moneybarn disagreed, it asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  
The car was repaired  after the investigators  view, Mr H has lost confidence  in the car, he 
wants to reject it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Under the relevant legislation -Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  the car should  have been 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr H. If it wasnt  then Moneybarn, who are 
also the supplier  of the car is responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all other relevant 
circumstances. A car that isnt sufficiently  durable,  can also be considered not to be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN73210502In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances include things like 
age, mileage and price at the time the point of supply. The car here wasnt  new, it was six 
years old and had completed over 83,000  miles when it was supplied to Mr H. 
The car was supplied to Mr H in March 2018.  Within a month, the car had broken down and 
displayed the error  code  - level control  failure. Mr H got in touch with the dealership,  who 
replaced the damaged compression hose. Four months after supply the car displayed the 
error code  -automatic hold brake fault.  The car was returned to the dealership  who cleared 
the code. It is not clear  whether they carried out any repairs in relation to this. In September  
2018 the car broke down  again. This time the fault reported was - drivetrain error.
Mr H was going on holiday, when the drivetrain error  came on. The dealership agreed to 
look at the car when  he got back.  On his return the dealership determined  the turbos had 
failed. Mr H was also in touch with the broker, he was told that he would have to pay for the 
repairs, as he had exceeded the mileage  allowance on his warranty.  
Mr H was unable to afford the cost of repairs until October 2018. The dealership referred Mr 
H to a turbo  specialist, who provided the replacement turbos. Mr H had the turbos replaced 
by a third-party garage. Just one month  after the repair,  the turbos failed again and the 
engine completely seized. The car needed to have  the engine replaced.  In November 2018 
Mr H got in touch with Moneybarn, he thought the broker had already notified it about the 
problems hed been having,  it hadnt.  When Moneybarn  got in touch with the dealership  it 
was told that the turbo failure was caused  by the third-party garages failure to change the oil 
feed pipe when  it replaced the turbos.  
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car in December 2018. The report 
concluded that the engine  failure  was a sudden occurrence and therefore the fault would not 
have been present or developing at the time the car was supplied. 
Having reviewed the independent report carefully,  I dont think the expert  considered the 
history of faults Mr H experienced when determining whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. I say this because the expert makes no reference to the fact 
the car had already experienced turbo failure  in September 2018, there does not appear to 
be any consideration as to whether  the problem could be related or not. Whilst an 
independent report  can be useful in determining whether a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality, it 
is only part of the overall evidence we take into consideration, when reaching a decision.  For 
the reason Ive outlined I dont find the independent  report persuasive.
Other than what the dealership told Moneybarn,  Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  the 
second turbo failure in November 2018 was caused by the third-party garage not changing  
the oil feed pipes.  The third-party garage confirmed it checked the pipes and the oil flow was 
fine. 
Moneybarn says turbos are wear  and tear items  and are not expected  to last the lifetime of 
the car. However,  the turbos failed twice, within a short space of time which suggests this 
isnt a wear and tear issue. In addition, Mr H also experienced problems with the automatic 
brake and the suspension, within the first six months of supply. Whilst it isnt a new car and 
had covered over 80,000 miles at the point of supply, I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect to experience all these issues so soon after getting the car, so I dont think the 
car was sufficiently durable.  
Ref: DRN73210503Mr H told us that before the car was supplied it had a drivetrain error and the dealership 
completed a repair. Mr H experienced  a loss of power and a drivetrain error warning came 
on in September  2018, when the turbos  initially failed. A month  after the turbos  were  
replaced, the turbos failed again. In addition, the car is subject  to a safety recall notice for an 
EGR issue. Mr H experienced  the drivetrain error warning and loss of power  symptoms  listed 
for this issue. Given the drivetrain issue before  supply and the subsequent two turbo failures  
in a short space  of time, I think this indicates a performance related  fault was either  present 
or developing when the car was supplied,  so I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied  to Mr H. 
The car was recently  repaired again, but understandably Mr H has lost confidence in the car 
and wants to reject it. I appreciate Moneybarn did not become aware of the issues Mr H was 
having until he contacted it directly in November 2018, however it appears the broker  did not 
pass this information  to Moneybarn as Mr H had asked it to and I dont think  it would be fair 
to hold Mr H responsible for the communication problems between the businesses. 
The car has now been repaired,  but there has been  previous repair  attempts and the car has 
remained unused since November 2018. In the circumstances I think Moneybarn should now 
allow Mr H to reject the car. 
Moneybarn should  cancel Mr Hs finance  agreement and collect the car with nothing further 
to pay. It should  remove the credit agreement from Mr Hs credit file and refund his £1,300  
deposit. The car was off the road in September 2018 when the turbos initially failed and Mr H 
only had the car back for a month, before the turbos failed again.  So, I think  Moneybarn 
should refund the September 2018 instalment and any instalments Mr H paid towards his 
finance agreement  from November 2018. Moneybarn should  also refund Mr H the £66 
towing and repair costs  incurred (Moneybarn already has the invoices). I think  its fair to ask 
Moneybarn to pay 8% simple interest  on these refunds too as Mr H has been  deprived of 
this money. Mr H has clearly been inconvenienced  by the problems with the car and I think  
Moneybarn should  pay Mr H £350 compensation to reflect this. 
 
final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and instruct  Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no 
cost to Mr H
remove the information about the finance agreement from Mr Hs credit file
refund  Mr Hs advance payment of £1,300 and add 8% simple  interest  from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*
reimburse Mr H for parts and labour costs incurred for repairs  (invoices supplied) and 
add 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement*
reimburse Mr H £66 recovery costs  and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*
refund  Mr H the September 2018 instalment to compensate him for when  he didnt 
have use of the car. Adding 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*
refund  all instalments  Mr H has paid towards his finance agreement from and 
including November  2018 to compensate the lack of use of the car. Add 8% simple 
interest from the date of the payments to the date of settlement*
pay Mr H £350 to compensate him for the stress and inconvenience he experienced
Ref: DRN73210504*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn  to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7321050