K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about not being able to access his TSB Bank  plc account.
background
In April 2018, TSB began  having problems with its IT systems. As a result  of these Mr A was 
unable to access his account online. This meant he was unsure if his direct  debits would be 
paid (including  the first payment for a new car hed taken on finance). And he couldnt make 
any transfers. 
Mr A has also said he was unable to make cash withdrawals. This was especially 
inconvenient as Mr A was regularly travelling to visit his father who was recovering from 
recent surgery. Mr A was concerned that he wouldnt be able to buy petrol  or provide  his 
parents with any additional money.   
Mr A made multiple calls to TSB to try and resolve  his problems. He also borrowed from 
friends and family to make sure he had enough cash available.  
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint should be upheld. She recommended  TSB pay 
Mr A £150  compensation. Mr A didnt  think this was enough and that TSB should pay him 
compensation in the region of £1,500. His complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr As fathers ill health.  Having to deal with all of the issues  he 
had with his TSB account wouldve been  even more  difficult at such  a time.  I have  taken into 
account that the impact on him at this time wouldve been worse than otherwise.
I do also appreciate the worries Mr A had about  having to meet his car repayment, as well as 
having enough money to travel to his parents  and support them (financially and emotionally). 
And that Mr A has had to make numerous,  often lengthy, phone calls to TSB.
So, I do think it is right that TSB pay some  compensation  to reflect this. 
But, it doesnt appear that Mr A was ultimately  unable to do the things he needed to or that 
any payment from the account failed. Mr A also acted sensibly and minimised the impact of 
this situation by borrowing from friends/family. 
This in itself had its own impact. Not only has Mr A said he was embarrassed  by having to 
borrow money, hes said he paid £45 interest  to his sister-in-law for this.
However, even taking into account  having  to deal with the wider issues  Mr A was 
experiencing at this time, I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable for TSB to have to pay 
him the level of compensation hes asked  for. And I think that £150  is a fair amount of 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes experienced. 
Ref: DRN73138342my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, TSB Bank  plc 
should pay Mr A £150 compensation and £45 for his financial loss. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7313834