K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  a fraud  on an account held with Nationwide  Building 
Society (NBS for short). Theyve said how NBS has dealt with the matter since  is also unfair.
background
Whilst Mr and Mrs T were  abroad  a fraudster called NBS and then went to an NBS branch 
and managed to withdraw £450. Mr and Mrs T became aware of this after a text message 
from NBS about insufficient funds for their automated payments. They  contacted NBS who 
appreciated that the branch withdrawal was fraud and reimbursed them.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with NBS around  the fraudsters call and how the 
withdrawal was successful. They were also unhappy  with what  NBS did afterward. So they 
complained to NBS.
NBS says its treated  them fairly as it quickly refunded the fraudulent  transaction.  It paid 
them £350  in distress and inconvenience  and paid a further £180 to cover  CIFAS 
membership for a year for them. It has also offered to change their account details entirely.  
So it doesnt  feel it needs to do anymore.
Mr and Mrs T feel the distress and inconvenience  payment is insulting and NBS should pay 
substantially more. The investigator did not agree with Mr and Mrs T. As Mr and Mrs T 
remain unhappy their complaint  has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have  noted their dealings with the Ombudsman service  have  been  shocking. 
This decision doesnt consider how weve dealt with these matters. This decision only 
considers the merits of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about NBS.
NBS has accepted from an early stage  that the branch withdrawal was fraudulent and 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs T quickly.  It apologised  to Mr and Mrs T quickly  and said it would 
deal with the causes of this fraud  internally. So to uphold this complaint Id have  to decide 
that what NBS has done  to resolve  matters is unfair or unreasonable.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  their complaint  should be upheld.  I 
say so for the following  reasons.
NBS has offered to change the account  details entirely for the account that was impacted if 
Mr and Mrs T wish to do so. Clearly  this might require assistance  from Mr and Mrs T with 
regard to certain transactions like automated transactions.  Considering  whats  happened 
here this seems a fair and reasonable offer to me.
NBS has paid £180 for Mr and Mrs T to use CIFAS for a year.  Considering there is a fraud 
that has happened this allows Mr and Mrs T enhanced insight  into their credit  and accounts  
going forward. I think this is fair and appropriate  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN71720922Mr and Mrs T want to understand what NBS has done with regard to the staff who dealt with 
the call and the processes in branch where the fraudulent transaction  occurred.  NBS said it 
will deal with these matters internally. It is not for this service to tell NBS how to deal with its 
regulatory obligations in respect of fraud. That is for the regulator. It is also not for this 
service to involve itself in the commercial decisions of businesses such as NBS.  Lastly it is 
clear that any disciplinary actions taken  by NBS are internal  private matters which have 
surrounding data protection issues for it and its staff. So I consider NBS position of not 
divulging this particular  information to Mr and Mrs T as reasonable.
NBS has said it wont release CCTV to Mr and Mrs T but will liaise  with the Police and 
provide it if the Police request it. Clearly video images of a branch transaction  will include not 
only NBS staff but also unrelated NBS account  holders and members of the public. Such 
images consequently have  numerous data protection issues.  I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs T 
have wondered whether the fraud was carried out by someone they know-and theyd like to 
know if this is the case. And I fully appreciate that. However that curiosity  doesnt prevail 
over the data protection obligations on NBS or regarding those individuals  in the images. So 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts arguments here and I think its reasonable for NBS not 
to release these  images to them.
Mr and Mrs T have  said their holiday was ruined. However it must be remembered the 
individual most  at fault for making  the fraudulent transaction was the fraudster. It is also of 
note that this transaction was on the last day of their holiday so Im not persuaded the 
holiday was ruined as they state.
Mr and Mrs T have  pointed to further  issues with other firms. But NBS isnt responsible  for 
the behaviour  of other firms or indeed the fraudster.  And although NBS have had failings in 
this case its also clear  the fraudster had targeted Mr and Mrs T before these failings  and 
appears to have had some information prior to the call to NBS; and enough to persuade 
NBS that the caller  was authorised to use that account. So although  NBS carries some 
blame it is clear the primary cause of the fraud  and any subsequent attempts at fraud 
against Mr and Mrs T sit with the fraudster.
The fraud was refunded  quickly and NBS has offered payment for distress and 
inconvenience quickly and then increased it to £350.  Considering all that Mr and Mrs T have 
said Im persuaded  this amount is reasonable and fair. I dont think  the amounts Mr and Mrs 
T have requested  in distress and inconvenience are commensurate with the distress and 
inconvenience theyve  described.
Taking all things in the round I think NBS position in regard to this fraudulent transaction is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do any more than it has 
already done,  or offered to do.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T will be significantly disappointed with my decision.  However  they 
need to remember  that the primary responsibility for the fraud  sits with the fraudster.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building  
Society. It has nothing more to do with regard to their complaint other than that it has already 
offered or done.
Ref: DRN71720923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7172092