K821x#15summary of complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that they were advised by an adviser with Positive Solutions 
Financial Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd to surrender existing  investments to invest in two 
replacement high risk unsuitable investments with Stirling Mortimer. Those investments have 
since failed and Mr and Mrs M have lost the money they invested.
Mr and Mrs M also complain that they incurred  encashment fees and tax charges when they 
surrendered existing investments to make the Stirling Mortimer investments and that the 
adviser did not warn  them about that. 
background to complaint
This complaint relates to events in 2008 and 2009. Put very briefly Mr and Mrs M say they 
were advised by an adviser I will call Mr C, when acting  for Positive  Solutions,  to: 
make withdrawals from existing Skandia  Bonds  
and invest in
oa Stirling Mortimer Cape Verde fund
oa bond with Prudential
oa Stirling Mortimer Coratina fund.
Mr and Mrs M say they incurred withdrawal and tax charges on the withdrawals that 
Mr C did not tell them about. The Stirling Mortimer funds were qualified  investor  funds listed  
in the Chanel  Islands  this meant they should  only have been marketed to certain types of 
investors and not to all investors. Both funds invested in right to sell contacts,  one in Cape 
Verde the other in Mexico.
The Stirling  Mortimer funds later became illiquid and lost most  or all of their value.  Mr and 
Mrs M say they were unsuitable for them and should  not have been recommended. 
Positive Solutions say Mr C was not acting for it when he gave the advice and that it is not 
responsible.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019. I said I thought  we could  consider  the 
complaint against  Positive Solutions, that it was responsible for the advice Mr C gave and that the 
advice was unsuitable. I also explained  how I thought  Positive Solutions should  put things right.
Mrs M agreed  with my provisional decision.  Positive Solutions did not. It made  a number  of 
points, including:
I should not issue a final decision in this case as Positive Solutions is challenging a 
similar decision  in a different case. This case should be delayed until that judicial  review  
challenge has been concluded.
The points  made in that other  case apply to this complaint.
The provisional decision  makes errors  of law and errors as to how the law applies  to the facts.
The ombudsman service ought to have  declined to determine the complaint because  it 
is required to come to correct conclusions on difficult questions of law in a developing 
area of law. These issues are central to the determination of the complaint. The 
ombudsman service  should have left the matter to the Court  to decide.
Alternatively, if the ombudsman service  does have jurisdiction it could not fairly  
determine this complaint  without an oral hearing. This is because the central issue  of 
reliance cannot  be determined without taking such a course.   
The decision wrongly treats the case of Cox and the cases  leading  up to it as applicable 
to principal  and agent.   
Ref: DRN73347212In Cox itself Lord Reed made  it clear  that was not so.
And the courts have  recently expressed that view in Winter  v Hockley  Mint [2019]  
1 WLR 1617 (at paragraph 63) and Anderson  v Sense  (at paragraph 324).
Even if Cox is applicable the only rational conclusion was that Mr C was acting on his 
own and separate to Positive Solutions
oCommission in respect of the investment was not paid to Positive  Solutions.
oNo records of the investment transaction were generated or supplied  to 
Positive Solutions.
oThe investment transaction was unknown to Positive Solutions  and there is no 
reason why it should have known about  it.
oMr C had his own business called [name given].
my findings
I have considered all the evidence  and arguments both parties have  provided  on this 
complaint. Having done so I have reached  the same conclusions as I did in my provisional  
decision on 15 November 2019. Those  conclusions were:
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  an act or omission  in relation to carrying  on of the 
regulated activity of giving investment  advice.  
Positive Solutions  represented to Mr and Mrs M that Mr C had authority to conduct 
business of the same  type as the business  he did conduct. And Mr and Mrs M relied  on 
those representations. Apparent authority therefore operated and Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs M complain  about.
In addition,  Positive Solutions is vicariously liable  for the investment advice Mr C gave to 
Mr and Mrs M. Although he was not an employee  of Positive  Solutions, he was an 
approved person  with responsibility for carrying on Positive  Solutions business  of 
advising its customers and arranging the investments recommended.  As such he carried  
on activities as an integral part of Positive Solutions business and had a sufficient 
relationship to Positive Solutions for vicarious  liability  to arise. Mr Cs advice was so 
closely connected  to Positive Solutions business  activities  as to make it just to hold 
Positive Solutions liable  for it.
Positive Solutions  is also liable to Mr and Mrs S under section  150 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is therefore  within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr Cs advice was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M acted  on the advice and suffered loss as a result  of it.
It is fair and reasonable for Positive  Solutions  to compensate  Mr and Mrs M for that loss.
My reasons  for my conclusions  are set out in my provisional decision and below. An 
anonymised version  of my provisional  decision  (on which I have also corrected previous 
typing errors) is attached and forms part of this final decision.
should this decision be further delayed?
Positive Solutions says I should wait to decide  this complaint until after its judicial review 
challenge to a decision on a similar case  has been  resolved. I do not agree that it is appropriate  
to put this complaint on hold. While Positive Solutions argues that I have made  the same 
mistakes of law as it alleges  in the other case, as I will explain below, I am not persuaded that I 
have made  mistakes of law and each  case does turn on its own particular facts.
Ref: DRN73347213Positive Solutions representations in response  to my view were largely in the form of 
repeating representation  made in another case without really addressing the specific factual 
details of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Positive Solutions was however given sufficient  time to 
make whatever submissions it wanted  to make  and so I am satisfied that it has had a fair 
opportunity to put its case.  
apparent authority
Positive Solutions says my provisional  decision contains or is based on errors of law. It has 
not said what errors it thinks I have made in relation to apparent  authority.   
Although it has not specifically  argued the point in this complaint, Positive Solutions says the 
question is not whether  it gave Mr C authority  to transact a general class  of acts.  The 
question is whether Positive Solutions  gave Mr C authority in relation to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But to answer that question, I think it is right for me to consider whether Positive 
Solutions placed Mr C in a position which would objectively  carry Positive  Solutions  
authority for Mr C to conduct business of a type he did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent has 
authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into a contract  of a kind within  the scope of the 
apparent authority. And in Armagas , Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered case  
ostensible authority is general in character  arising  when the agent is placed  in a position  
generally regarded  as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question . 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  director. 
I consider that the usual  authority of a managing director includes a wide variety of acts. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I am satisfied that Positive Solutions 
represented to Mr and Mrs M that Mr C had its authority  to carry out the acts which  an 
independent financial  adviser would usually have authority to do  including giving 
investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions. 
Positive Solutions did not specifically mention the Stirling Mortimer investments  in its 
representations, but that is not determinative. Neither  is the point that Mr C did not have 
actual authority to give the advice he gave. Mr C had Positive Solutions apparent authority 
to act on its behalf in advising Mr and Mrs M to surrender existing investments to reinvest  in 
the Stirling Mortimer investments, because he had Positive Solutions more general  apparent  
authority to act on its behalf in giving them that kind of investment advice.
Ref: DRN73347214Positive Solutions representations as to the authority of Mr C:
The points made by Positive Solutions  in other cases are largely framed  by its view that 
representations must  be specific  rather than general. I do not agree with that view.  
For example, Positive Solutions says in other  cases procuring the advisers  registration  with 
the FSA is not a representation to Mr and Mrs M. The rules require such registration just as 
they require status  disclosure and that Jacobs J found in Anderson  v Sense that a status 
disclosure could never be a representation  and the same conclusion  must apply to the 
register. However the judges finding  was that on the particular facts of that case, the status 
disclosure was not a representation of any kind to the effect that [the agent] was running the 
[Ponzi] scheme with the authority of Sense or as the agent  of the Defendant  (emphasis 
added). Financial  advisers are not usually authorised to run schemes and that is the context 
in which  the finding was made. 
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding of 
in Martin v Britannia Life, by Jonathan  Parker Js on apparent authority was based on the 
contents of a business card. 
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr C to advise Positive  Solutions  customers 
about investments  was part of the conduct  by which Positive Solutions held him out to the 
world in general as authorised to do that. 
Positive Solutions says if this amounts to a representation it would make Positive Solutions 
liable for anything said or done by Mr C relating to anything which might broadly amount to 
financial advice. Positive Solutions says this is an absurd proposition. But it is not what  I 
said or implied and the cases of Martin v Britannia  and Anderson  v Sense show  how such  
matters can be applied  (and limited) in practice.  
I do not say in this case there was a holding  out that everything Mr C might do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to Positive Solutions customers such as 
Mr and Mrs M, about their investments this was the type of business he was held out as 
carrying on for it.  
It remains my finding that Positive Solutions did represent to Mr and Mrs M through  its 
conduct that Mr C had its authority to act on its behalf in carrying  on the activities 
complained about.
reliance
Positive Solutions has not expressly disputed my finding on reliance. And my view is 
unchanged. This was a straightforward  matter of clients dealing with their existing Positive 
Solutions adviser because he was a Positive  Solutions adviser  - the Positive  Solutions  
adviser who had previously recommended the Skandia investments and was now 
recommending changes he justified in light of changing circumstances. There is no evidence  
to show that Mr and Mrs M knew or should  have known that Mr C was acting in any capacity 
other than a Positive Solutions adviser.  Mr and Mrs M proceeded on the basis that Mr C was 
acting in every respect as the agent  of Positive  Solutions with authority from Positive 
Solutions so to act.
Ref: DRN73347215just that Positive  Solutions should bear the loss
 
The discussion of the justice of the case was not intended to be read as part of the test for 
apparent authority. It is a point the courts consider  as a check that they have reached the 
right conclusion. I regard  the test for apparent authority as being satisfied on the facts  in this 
complaint. The reference to the justice of the case was by way of such  a cross  check  and 
was included as the courts often include such an explanation and to be helpful  to the parties.
My views on this point  are unchanged   though  I should make it clear that my comment  
should be read as relating to the carrying on of the controlled function  in this case, ie to the 
circumstances of this complaint and Mr and Mrs Ms losses from the advice they complain 
about not all possible  losses  in any possible circumstance.  
vicarious liability
I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and Mrs M 
complains about, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision  though  on re-reading my 
provisional decision I see a point I was trying  to make was not made  as clearly as I would like. 
Under the heading the stage two test the first sentence in the second  bullet point says:
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously liable  here, then Mr and Mrs Ms ability to obtain 
compensation would depend  on whether the Positive Solutions Partner  he dealt with was 
an employee  of Positive Solutions.
The above  does not really  help to introduce  the point I was trying  to make which is made in 
the rest of the paragraph - that in Cox the court suggested it would be unreasonable  and 
unfair for the claimants ability to receive compensation to depend on whether the relevant 
worker was an employee or not.  
Moving from that specific clarification to the issue more generally, I remain  of the view that the 
tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud are applicable.  Those decisions 
make it very clear  that non-employment relationships can give rise to vicarious  liability. 
The purpose of the guidance contained  in Cox is to define the criteria by which a non-
employment relationship can be judged as either  capable or incapable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability. In the present case, Mr Cs relationship  with Positive  Solutions  satisfies  
those criteria and had similarities to employment,  as I explain in my provisional decision.  It 
would seem very odd if that were to count for nothing just because he enjoyed  powers of an 
agent to contract  business. Many employees are given authority, as agent, to contract 
business on their employers behalf  and Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (paragraph 1-004) 
says that the status of an agent  will usually  be either that of employee  or independent  
contractor. So it cannot have been intended  that the test in Cox is disapplied whenever there 
is an agency. 
Positive Solutions says Lord Reed made it clear in Cox that the decision did not apply to 
principals and agents. But that is not what Lord Reed actually said,  which  was:
15.  Vicarious liability in tort is imposed  upon a person in respect  of the act or omission of 
another individual, because of his relationship  with that individual, and the connection 
between that relationship and the act or omission in question. Leaving aside other areas of 
the law where vicarious liability can operate, such as partnership and agency (with which  
this judgment is not concerned), the relationship is classically one of employment, and the 
connection is that the employee committed the act or omission in the course  of his 
Ref: DRN73347216employment: that is to say, within the field of activities assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put 
it in Central Motors (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock Garage and Motor  Co 1925 SC 796 , 802, 
or, adapting the words  of Diplock LJ in Ilkiw v Samuels  [1963] 1 WLR 991 , 1004,  in the 
course of his job, considered  broadly.  That aspect of vicarious liability is fully considered  by 
Lord Toulson JSC in Mohamud v Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016]  AC 677.
16.  It has however long been recognised  that a relationship can give rise to vicarious  
liability even in the absence  of a contract of employment
I think that Lord Reed  is there recognising that aside from cases where vicarious liability  is 
imposed because there is a relationship of, or having similar features to, employment (which  
the Cox case  considers), there exist categories of cases, such  as partnership and agency, 
where vicarious liability can be imposed on different bases  (which the Cox case  does  not 
consider).   I dont think that he can be taken to have  said that no principal can ever be 
vicariously liable for an agent under Cox, even though their relationship fulfils  the Cox and 
Mohamud criteria for such liability. 
Positive Solutions have  also referred me to paragraph 63 of the Court of Appeal decision 
in Winter  v Hockley Mint. But it does  not address the point that the paragraph  begins  with 
the words:
The analysis did not identify  or address the essential ingredients of vicarious  liability of a 
principal for the deceit of his agent as required  by Armagas  
This is not a complaint about  deceit. There is no finding that Positive  Solutions is vicariously 
liable for the deceit of its agent.  The complaint is - and the finding  made  against  Positive  
Solutions for which it is liable is - that the advice was negligent and/or unsuitable and in 
breach of statutory  duty. 
I recognise in my provisional  decision that Cox and Mohamud dont apply to torts of 
dishonesty, but I am not aware of any case which holds that they dont apply whenever the 
defendant has given the wrongdoer any authority  to act as its agent.  For the reasons I have 
given above I would  not expect the courts to arrive at such  a conclusion.  
I also want to make clear that I do not say that the fact Positive Solutions put Mr C in a 
position which gave  him the opportunity to make errors is in itself sufficient to make Positive 
Solutions vicariously liable for his conduct.  But I am saying that, after taking  the whole of the 
evidence into account, I am satisfied  that Positive  Solutions is vicariously liable for the 
actions of Mr C in this complaint.
I accept that Mr C gave some advice to Mr and Mrs M without Positive  Solutions knowledge 
or authority and that it did not receive payments for it. But I do not agree that he was 
advising in the context of a recognisably independent business using his separate  trading 
name as a separate business. 
If Mr Cs conduct  had been fraudulent, then much of the case  law I have  quoted in relation  
to vicarious liability  would not apply.  But there  is no finding of fraud.  And even if it was, or 
even if the test in Cox does not apply  for some other  reason,  Positive  Solutions would still 
be responsible  for the acts complained of by reason  of apparent authority and statutory 
responsibility.
Ref: DRN73347217statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
Taking everything into account,  Im still satisfied section 150 FSMA provides an alternative 
route by which  Positive Solutions is responsible. This is a statutory responsibility, and Im not 
persuaded that (if Im wrong about  apparent authority) the absence of actual or apparent 
authority would mean that responsibility  wouldnt arise under section 150 FSMA:
Section 150 FSMA is a consumer-protecting provision relating to regulatory rules  which  
were themselves created to protect consumers. Together they create a statutory right to 
damages for breaches of the Regulators  rules and this can apply even where theres  no 
relationship between the firm and the consumer, so I would not expect the absence of 
apparent authority  to be decisive.
Instead the way FSMA is framed  and has been interpreted by the Regulator  seems to 
analyse the question of a firms  responsibility  for its personnel/contractors  (if they arent 
appointed representatives)  according  to the question of whose business is being carried  
on  the principals or the individuals. This is essentially very similar to the Cox v 
Ministry of Justice  test. Its not done  according to the law of agency/apparent authority. 
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) is current Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
guidance which directly  addresses  the question of regulatory responsibility for an 
authorised persons  delegated activities. It deals  with the question  of whether a 
delegated activity is carried on for regulatory  purposes  by an employer/principal or by 
their employee/agent. It explains  that employees  and agents wont breach  the general  
prohibition if the employee/agent  is doing  no more than carrying  on the business of their 
employer/principal  as opposed to carrying on their own business. And it describes  
relevant factors  for deciding whose business is being carried  on (PERG 2.3.5-2.3.7).   
FSA rules  and now FCA rules  control  how firms carry on regulated and other activities,  
including delegated activities carried on by the firm. Deciding whether a firm has 
breached a rule (including for section 150 FSMA purposes) involves the same  question 
as the PERG guidance  whether it was the firm which  was carrying on the relevant 
activity as part of its business, as opposed  to a delegate carrying  on the activity  as part 
of its own business.
So the relevant  question under  section  150 FSMA is which partys business (i.e. Positive 
Solutions or Mr Cs) was being carried on. That question is similar to the test in Cox v 
Ministry of Justice  but it isnt limited by whether  there  was actual or ostensible authority. 
To help understand the test, the FCA guidance explains how it applies, as an example, 
in the provision of home credit. This is a regulated business in which large firms  often 
deal with their customers through self-employed agents,  who call on customers at their 
homes to make  loans  and collect payments  on which  they earn commission.  PERG 
2.3.11 states:
Although the overall relationship between a home collected credit provider (the principal 
firm) and a person providing  the services(the  individual) will need  to be taken  into 
account, meeting the following criteria is likely to mean that the individual is carrying on 
the business of the principal firm (as its agent) and not his own, meaning  that the 
individual does not require authorisation or to be exempt:
(1) the principal firm appoints the individual as an agent;
Ref: DRN73347218(2) the individual only works  for one principal firm;
(3) the principal firm has a permission  from the FCA for every activity  the individual is 
carrying on for which the principal firm would  need permission if it was carrying on the 
activity itself;
(4) the contract sets out effective measures for the principal firm to control the individual;
(6) the principal firm accepts full responsibility for the conduct  of the individual when  the 
individual is acting on the principal firms behalf in the course  of its business; and
(7) the individual makes  clear to customers that it is representing a principal firm as its agent  
and the name of that principal firm.
The relationship described in PERG  2.3.11  has a lot of similarities to the relationship 
between Mr C and Positive  Solutions:
oPositive Solutions had appointed  Mr C as an agent.
oThe FCA register  suggests Mr C wasnt  an approved  person or appointed 
representative for any other firm at the relevant time.
oPositive Solutions had permission for the activities carried on by Mr C that needed 
permission.
oThe agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr C set out a number of measures 
for Positive Solutions  to control Mr C.
oClause 2.4 of the agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr C said:
The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations  of the 
Registered Individual  in the course  of carrying out the business of the Agency 
hereby created, or in the course of performance  of the duties hereby contracted
oIm satisfied Mr C caused  Mr and Mrs M to believe he was representing  Positive 
Solutions through his words  and conduct  as discussed in my provisional  decision.
So, looking  at whose  business Mr C was carrying on in this case  when he dealt with Mr and 
Mrs M, I still think it was Positive Solutions business  and not his own.  And I think  my finding 
that Positive Solutions  is liable under section 150 FSMA for the acts complained  about  is in 
line with how FSMA and the rules are intended  to operate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that under section 150 FSMA Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
suitability for determination by an ombudsman
When Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to the ombudsman service, our rules said (at 
DISP 3.3.4R):
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  if [she] 
considers that:  
(10) it would  be more suitable for the subject matter of the complaint to be dealt with by 
a court, arbitration  or another  complaints  scheme.
Ref: DRN73347219I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes that it would be more suitable for the subject 
matter of this complaint  to be dealt with by a court. But I do not agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and Positive Solutions is right to say that this 
particular complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason why that 
prevents me from considering the matter.
Positive Solutions has suggested that it would be impossible for me to make fair findings  on 
the issue of reliance without disclosure. But it would be very unusual for any party  to have 
contemporaneous documents which identified the statements on which they relied,  and so I 
dont think the courts power to order disclosure of documents would be of any assistance 
here. In any event, I have  no reason to suspect  that either of the parties  have failed to 
disclose relevant evidence.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. I therefore decline to exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint.
oral hearing
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties to 
take part in a hearing.
Positive Solutions hasnt  requested a hearing as such in this complaint but it has said this 
complaint cannot  be fairly determined without one. 
Ive therefore  thought  about this point in the specific circumstances  of this complaint and Im 
satisfied I can fairly  determine the matter without a hearing. In particular, I note:
Although Mr M has died this is a joint complaint and Mrs M was present at the advice 
meetings and made notes at them. However,  the events complained  of happened over 
ten years ago and memories inevitably fade. Im satisfied I can reach a fair outcome 
using all the available evidence and Im not persuaded hearing oral evidence would 
assist me.
Positive Solutions  clearly believes Ive misunderstood the law and its set out its position 
clearly in writing.
The Court of Appeal  has adopted a very flexible approach to whats fair in this context 
(Financial Ombudsman  Service v Heather Moor & Edgecomb  Ltd [2008] EWCA Civ 643).
merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further  submissions on the merits of the complaint or the way I 
said things should  be put right. My view remains as set out in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN733472110In 2008 Mr and Mr M both had bonds  with Skandia. They were recorded  as having a 
medium or slightly lower than medium attitude to risk. Some  if not all of the funds in the 
Skandia bonds were  invested in a Cautious Managed Fund.  All of the surrendered  units 
were invested in that fund.  
The Stirling  Mortimer funds seem to have been recommended  on the basis they were lower  
risk investments as they were not correlated  to the stock market and had some contractual  
guarantees. The investments were not however  low risk. They  were  higher risk specialist 
funds. They  invested  in one asset  type in developing economies. They were in effect 
investing in properties that had not yet been built.  
The funds were Channel  Island Qualified  Investor funds meaning they should only have 
been promoted to relevant experienced or expert  investors. Mr and Mrs M were  not such 
investors. The Stirling Mortimer funds  were not suitable for Mr and Mrs M and should not 
have been recommended  to them.
The money that was invested in Stirling Mortimer should instead have stayed in the Skandia 
bonds in the funds which seem consistent  with Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk. If that had 
happened Mr and Mrs M would not have suffered the withdrawal  charges  and tax charges 
incurred in respect of those charges.
As for the Prudential investment, this was recommended to replace, in part, an existing 
investment. The Skandia investment had not been held for long and should have been viewed 
as at least a medium  term investment (just as the Prudential investment was). There needs to 
be a good reason to surrender units from the first investment in order  to invest  in the second 
because of the inevitable charges that would be involved. Mr C did not analyse  those  charges  
in his recommendation reports  or warn about the charges that would  be involved.    
I remain of the view that the Prudential investment advice  was suitable in the circumstances 
either.  (Having said that it is possible that this advice may not have caused  Mr and Mrs M 
loss if the Prudential investment performed sufficiently  well compared to the Skandia 
investment to cover the additional  expenses  incurred.)
how to put things right
The purpose of redress is to try to put Mr and Mrs Ms investment back  into the position they 
would have been but for the unsuitable  advice from Positive Solutions.
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly,  Positive  Solutions must:
Compare the Mr and Mrs Ms investments in the two Stirling Mortimer funds and the 
Prudential fund with Skandia Bonds in which those funds were originally invested and 
pay the difference  between the fair value and the actual  value of the investments. The 
comparison should be on the basis of the realisable values of the investments ie the 
amount that would be received on encashment after the deduction  of all applicable 
charges. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value  no compensation is payable.  
Pay compensation equal to the tax charges incurred  by Mr M in respect of the 
chargeable events  of partial surrender if evidence can be provided  to show  the charges 
and when they were  paid.  
Ref: DRN733472111Pay Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience it the unsuitable advice has caused 
her. And pay £300 to the executors of Mr Ms estate for the distress and inconvenience 
the unsuitable advice caused to Mr M.
Pay interest as set out below.
Provide details  of its calculations to Mrs M and the executors of Mr M in a clear 
simple format.
Calculating the present  value of the Skandia  investments should have the effect of 
cancelling out the early  encashment charges for the purposes of the calculation  any loss.
I think it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs Ms Stirling Mortimer  investments have any value at the 
date of my decision. I therefore think its fair for Positive Solutions to assume  that the actual 
value of the Stirling Mortimer investments is zero. This is provided  Mrs M and the executors 
of the estate of Mr M agree to Positive Solitons taking ownership of the investment if it 
wishes to.
If it is not possible for Positive  Solutions to take ownership of Mr and Mrs Ms Stirling  
Mortimer investments then, subject to the comments I make  below about maximum awards, 
it may request an undertaking  from Mrs M and the executors of Mr M that they repay to 
Positive Solutions any amount they may receive from the investments in the future. Positive 
Solutions will need to meet  the costs of drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value (referred to above) is what the realisable  value would have been at the date of this 
decision if the money had remained  invested  with Skandia.  Any withdrawal, income or other 
payment out of the investment should  be deducted  from the fair value calculation  at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, Positive 
Solutions may total all those payments  and deduct  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
If any of the investments, such as Mr Ms Prudential investment,  have been  closed,  the 
value(s) when closed  and the date(s) of closure(s)  will need to be used in the calculations  
instead of the present notional value.  And if there is a loss so calculated,  interest  should  be 
added to that loss from the time the investment was closed to the date of this decision. That 
interest shall be at the rate of 8% simple interest per year.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year is also to be added to the refund of the tax charges 
paid by Mr M from the time they were  paid to the date of this decision.
And interest  is to be paid on all of the fair redress due under this decision (including interest 
calculated to the date of this decision and the compensation for distress and inconvenience) 
at the rate of 8% simple  interest per year from the date of this decision to the date of 
payment of the fair compensation  if that fair compensation is not paid with 28 days  of 
Positive Solutions being notified of the acceptance  of this decision.
Ref: DRN733472112my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000 plus interest,  and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that the business  pay the balance.
determination and award: For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd. I 
consider that fair compensation should  be calculated as set out above. My decision is that 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs M the amount produced 
by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience) 
plus any interest as set out above.
If Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd dos not pay the full fair compensation, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by/for Mr and Mrs M. This is until any future 
benefit that they may receive  from the investment together with the compensation paid by 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd (excluding any interest)  equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.
Positive Solution (Financial Services)  Ltd may request an undertaking from or on behalf  of Mr and 
Mrs M that once the full fair compensation has been received by/for them,  they will transfer (to 
the extent possible) the benefit of the investment to Positive Solutions(Financial Services ) Ltd 
and will pay any amount  Mr and Mrs M may receive  from the investment thereafter
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd pays  Mr and Mrs M 
the balance plus interest on the balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Ltd. It is unlikely that Mrs M and the executors of Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court for the balance.  Mrs M and the executors of Mrs M may want to consider 
getting independent legal  advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
executors of the estate of Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before  3 April 2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN733472113anonymised  version of provisional decision
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Unfortunately the application of those  rules  in relation  to complaints  made against certain 
types of advisers  who represent financial  firms is not straightforward. There  have been a number of 
court cases dealing  with some of the issues recently and we are now in a position  to set out what all 
this means for Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
Uncertainty about these  matters has led to very considerable delay in this complaint  and I am very 
sorry that we have not been  able to deal with things  more  quickly.   
Ive now considered the relevant information  about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Based on what Ive 
seen so far I think we can consider their complaint.  I have  also formed  the provisional  view that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 15 December  2019.  But unless the 
information changes my mind, my decision is likely to be along the following  lines.
summary of complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  is that they were advised  by an adviser  with Positive Solutions Financial  
Solutions (Financial Solutions) Ltd to surrender  existing investments to invest  in two replacement  high 
risk unsuitable  investments  with Stirling Mortimer. Those  investments have since failed and Mr and 
Mrs M have lost the money they invested.
Mr and Mrs M also complain that they incurred encashment fees and tax charges when they 
surrendered existing  investments to make the Stirling Mortimer investments and that the adviser did 
not warn them about that. 
background to complaint
This complaint relates to events in 2008 and 2009. Put very briefly  Mr and Mrs M say they were 
advised by an adviser I will call Mr C, when acting for Positive Solutions,  to 
make withdrawals from existing  Skandia Bonds  
and invest in
oa Stirling Mortimer Cape Verde fund
oa bond with Prudential
oa Stirling Mortimer Coratina fund.
Mr and Mrs M say they incurred withdrawal  and tax charges on the withdrawals that 
Mr C did not tell them  about. The Stirling  Mortimer  funds were  qualified investor funds listed in the 
Chanel Islands  this meant they should only have been marketed to certain types of investors  and 
not to all investors. Both funds invested in right to sell contacts, one in Cape Verde the other in 
Mexico.
The Stirling Mortimer  funds  later became  illiquid and lost most or all of their value.  Mr and Mrs M say 
they were unsuitable for them and should not have  been  recommended.  
Positive Solutions say Mr C was not acting for it when he gave the advice and that it is not 
responsible.
This complaint has been  considered by an adjudicator and by one of my fellow ombudsmen.
The adjudicator thought that the Mr C was not acting  for Positive Solutions but was acting for Capital 
Consultancy Network  when he recommended the two Stirling Mortimer investments. He also thought  
it was likely Mr C was acting for a separate business when he recommended  that Mr and Mrs M 
surrender existing  investments. He therefore thought we could not consider the complaint against 
Positive Solutions.
Ref: DRN733472114Mr and Mrs M and their representative disagreed. They said its clear Mr C advised  them  to make 
partial surrenders from their Skandia Bond and invest in the Prudential Bond  and the other 
investments in Stirling Mortimer  were all part of the same transactions. They  were  not aware of the 
separate business and thought Mr C was acting for Positive Solutions throughout. And in any event  
that other business  was not a separate entity  it is just Mr C. They say they did not receive a 
suitability letter for the Stirling Mortimer  investments.  They only received information memoranda 
relating to the investments. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative also made the point that he was aware that Positive Solutions had 
settled almost identical  complaints about almost identical advice by Mr C to other clients.  And he said 
that Positive Solutions was the registered agent for the two investments that were  encashed  to invest 
in Stirling Mortimer.
One of my fellow ombudsmen considered the complaint  and he analysed  the case  on the basis Mr C 
was an appointed  representative of Positive Solutions. And he said we could  consider part of the 
complaint  the advice to surrender and invest the Cape  Verde investment in 2008.  And the advice to 
withdraw £40,000  from the Skandia bond in 2009. But he did not think  there was enough evidence to 
show that Positive Solutions was responsible for the further £20,000 withdrawal and investment in 
Coratina in 2009.
Neither Positive Solutions or Mr and Mrs M agreed.
Positive Solutions pointed out that Mr C was its agent not an appointed representative. And so the law 
relating to appointed representatives is not applicable. It said Mr C had acted  in breach of his agency 
agreement in several  respects  meaning he was acting  beyond the scope of the authority he had from 
Positive Solutions. This meant he was not acting for it and Mr and Mrs M were  not its client.  
Mr and Mrs M were  pleased that the ombudsman  had come to a different view to the adjudicator. On 
the final point they argued that the notes  of the various meetings made  by Mrs M do show that all the 
advice was all linked and that includes  the advice  to surrender  from the Skandia bonds  to invest in the 
Coratina fund. 
Since then there  has been a reorganisation within the Financial Ombudsman Service and the role of 
the original  ombudsman  who considered  this complaint  has changed.  This complaint  has therefore 
been reallocated to me and I have considered it afresh.
The factual background:
The complaint relates to events in 2008 and 2009. By that time Mr and Mrs M were  existing clients of 
Positive Solutions. Their  adviser was Mr C who was a registered individual or self-employed agent  
of Positive Solutions.   
Mr C was registered  on the FSA register as CF22  Investment Adviser from 2005 to 2007 and CF30 
Customer from 2007 to 2010.  
In 2007 Mr and Mrs M set up two Skandia Bonds on the advice of Mr C. They  invested £118,000 
each. The investments  were  made through Positive Solutions and it was paid commission by 
Skandia. As I understand it there is no complaint about that advice. 
Mr C, for Positive Solutions, was the servicing agent for the Skandia investments.
Mr and Mrs M had funds managed separately by their bank  in cautious managed funds.
2007-2008, was the time of the financial crisis. The run on Northern Rock was in mid- September 
2007. Lehman  Brothers went bust a year later.  
Ref: DRN733472115the 2008  advice
There was a further  meeting  between Mr and Mrs M and Mr C in October 2008.  Mr and 
Mrs M say they were  advised to surrender  part of their Skandia  bonds to invest  in the Stirling  
Mortimer Cape Verde investment fund.
Mr and Mrs M say they incurred early encashment penalties and tax liabilities.  They  say 
Mr C did not warn them about either.
Positive Solutions has provided a copy of some of its records.  A record for the 2008 advice says:
Investment Review
27/10/2008
Investment Review Following the recent down  turn in the world stock markets  the clients 
needed to review  the current status of their investments. Some 70K is managed  by [Mr and 
Mrs Ms bank]. The clients are looking  to invest in the short term for growth  (to be passed to 
the next Generation) and are looking to make  an investment  over the next two to three years, 
they would also like some guarantees in light of the current market losses they would  wish to 
have some protection. During my research  I looked at a number of Structured products but 
most were geared to Stock market rises  and were  for too longer  [sic] term.  The Stirling 
Mortimer property  fund offers the term, growth potential and guarantees coupled with low 
initial charges and running  costs. It was agreed to invest on a joint basis £57,000 into the SM 
Property Fund No 7 Cape Verde II.
This does seem to be a record showing  Mr C purporting to act as a Positive Solutions adviser giving  
Mr and Mrs M advice to invest in the Stirling Mortimer Cape Verde fund as alleged  by Mr and Mrs M. 
And this note is broadly consistent with the record Mrs M made  which includes:
Cape Verde.  Overseas.  Off W. coast of Africa for holiday properties.
They have a Right to purchase clause. You can negotiate reduction of 15 %.
Off Plan.
Right to Sell gives you 15 %. Underwritten by Royal  Bank  of Scotland!  Off Plan you can 
negotiate discounts  once built  you cant.
Its an ex Portuguese colony. Listed in Channel  Islands Stock Exchange.  It is a close ended  
invest comp  is a fixed time  running for 2 yrs. Rt is Phase II  Phase I sold and made return 
of 47%. The phase has been extended to get finance in.
Things do not however  end here. There is a further note in Positive  Solutions records. It says: 
Investment Review  reconsideration.
08/11/2008
Following feedback  from PS Compliance dept. and further  consideration the clients decided 
not to proceed with the Stirling mortimer  [sic] application via PS and to retain  the money for 
the time being until the markets had settled a little. It was agreed to review again in the new 
year around  Easter time.
Mrs M does not have any corresponding note for a meeting or update in November 2008.
Mr and Mrs M say they accepted Mr Cs advice and withdrew funds  from the Skandia investment and 
incurred withdrawal charges  of £2,285 and Mr M incurred  a higher rate tax charge  of £3,668.72. They  
say Mr C did not warn  them about these  charges.
Ref: DRN733472116On 7 November 2008 Skandia wrote to Mr and Mrs M to confirm that they had each withdrawn 
£28,500 from their Skandia Bonds. That means the withdrawal request must have been made a few 
days before  the note dated  8 November  above.  The withdrawal was made  from the [name given] 
Cautious Managed Fund. Those  letters  from Skandia were copied to Positive  Solutions.
Mr and Mrs M say they had no knowledge of the change recorded in the note of 
8 November 2008. As far as they were concerned the application for the Cape Verde investment just 
proceeded as advised at the meeting in October and they assumed the business  was placed through  
Positive Solutions.
The application was on 10 November 2011. The application was to invest  £57,000 in the fund on a 
joint basis.
On the application form, after the part where Mr and Mrs M signed there is section for the details of 
the financial adviser to be entered. That part of the form was left blank.
The Cape Verde Fund was a qualified investor fund listed in the Channel Islands.  It was set up to 
invest in right to purchase contracts in off plan property developments  in Cape Verde. This involves 
buying the right to buy at completion  a property at a fixed price which  is usually at a discount to the 
expected value at completion.   
  
Positive Solutions says the application for the Stirling Mortimer Cape  Verde Investment  was made 
through [name given]. This was a separate trading name used by Mr C which it says is separate to 
and nothing  to do with Positive Solutions. 
Positive Solutions says it did not authorise Mr C to advise on the Stirling Mortimer Cape Verde 
investment (Global Property Fund  No 7 Cape Verde II). It says Mr C was not acting for it in relation to 
that investment. It says it is not responsible  for any advice Mr C gave to invest in the Stirling Mortimer 
fund or for the losses suffered in relation to that investment.
Positive Solutions also says it has a pre-approval process in respect of surrenders and re-investment 
and it has no record of Mr C seeking approval for the advice to surrender part of the Skandia Bond to 
re-invest in Stirling Mortimer.
It also says it had no record of Mr C trading style or business of [name  given] and that it was not a 
registered trading style of Positive Solutions.
the 2009  advice
In 2009 there  was further advice. There were three transactions. Mr and Mr M surrendered more units  
in the Skandia Bond  held in the Cautious  Managed Fund. They  each withdrew  £30,000. So a total of 
£60,000 was withdrawn. And they both applied  to withdraw £30,000 in one lump sum not in two 
withdrawals each that totalled £30,000.  
Mr and Mrs M invested  £20,000 each in investment Bonds with Prudential and a second Stirling 
Mortimer investment fund called Coratina. They invested  £20,000 jointly  in that fund. So there was a 
total of £60,000 invested.
These arrangements  were  discussed in early 2009. In February  2009 there was a meeting between  
Mr C and Mr and Mrs M. According to the record dated  24 February 2009 made  by Mr C the 
Prudential investment  was discussed. The following point is included in the note:
The clients  wished this investment to run alongside their Skandia Life portfolio and the 
Share/UT/Oiec portfolio run by [Mr and Mrs Ms bank] both to remain unchanged as for the 
Risk profiles.
Ref: DRN733472117Mrs M made  handwritten notes of her meeting  with Mr C. Her note of the meeting of 24 February 
2009 included:
Skandia Life has lost 11% in a year. [Mr C] has been looking at a lot of companies[Mr C] 
would like structured products. Skandia Life has none  in their portfolio. Some  will only let you 
invest till age 75 the Pru will let you go on to 79
Transfer fees  costs will be picked up by the Pru  [Mr C] will ensure.
£20,000 from each fund moved into the Pru. 
Mrs Ms notes  dated  23 March 2009 include:
More news on the Mexican front
£30,000 out of each fund = £60,000 sitting in the bank
[Mr C] has checked on the Prudential  fund is international
Cortina fund is quite  encouraging  maybe
[Mr C] wants  us to put £40,000 with Pru
+ joint = £20,000 Cortina  for 2 years
i.e. Mexico
On 24 March  2009  Skandia wrote  to thank Mr and Mrs M for their recent  request to surrender 
£30,000  So the surrender request was sent a few days before  that - seemingly at around the time 
the meeting with Mr C on 24 February 2009.  
And I have seen a copy of the application form signed by Mr M and it is dated 24 February 2009 on 
which he asks to withdraw £30,000.
On 31 March  2009  Mr C provided recommendation  letters recording his recommendations to Mr and 
Mrs M that they each invest  in Prudential investment bonds.  It records that £20,000  each was to be 
invested. The letters do not mention the source of the money to be invested.  The letter  does not say 
that the recommendation was to invest money that was to be withdrawn from Skandia.
As I understand it Positive Solutions does not dispute that Mr C gave the Prudential investment bond 
advice as a Positive Solutions Partner.
On 23 March  2009  Mr and Mrs M applied to invest in the Stirling Mortimer Coratina Fund.  On the 
application form, after the part where Mr and Mrs M signed,  there section for the financial adviser  was 
completed. The details given were Mr C and his firms name was recorded as [Mr Cs trading name]. I 
note that the email address  given was Mr Cs Positive Solutions email address.
I also note that it was not unusual for registered individuals of Positive Solutions to use trading 
names. I am aware  of other cases where those  trading  names are registered  as trading  styles of 
Positive Solutions with the FSA.    Mr Cs trading name was not so registered  or approved by Positive  
Solutions it says. I have  no reason to doubt that but I have seen [Mr Cs trading name]  note paper 
from a different complaint  on which  it said 
[Mr Cs trading name] is a trading style of Positive Solutions.  I also note that the address,  email 
address and phone numbers were  the same as Mr Cs Positive Solutions address  email address and 
phone numbers.
The Coratina Fund is a Qualified investor fund that intended to invest  in Right To Purchase contacts 
in Mexico. This involved investing in the right to buy residential properties  off plan and an early  stage 
of construction with the option to buy when complete.  The fund was listed in the Channel Islands.   
Ref: DRN733472118complaints about  one service or more
Mr and Mrs M had separate  Skandia Bonds  and made separate Prudential  investments. They made 
two joint investments in the Stirling Mortimer  funds.  In my view the complaint is really about  the advice  
they received together  in relation to funds  they regarded as their joint family  assets.  
I also think  that the events of late 2008 and early 2009  blend together into the ongoing  service of 
servicing the Skandia Bonds investment and providing ongoing reviews and financial advice.  
Mr and Mrs M made one single  complaint about the combined events  of late 2008 and early  2009 and 
in my view this is appropriate and reflects the way all parties  assess the nature of this dispute.
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide  whether  the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
the basis for deciding jurisdiction:
I must decide whether  we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint on the basis of our jurisdiction 
rules (referred to as the DISP rules), including  the relevant law they are based on or incorporate,  
based on the relevant facts  of the complaint which I must decide on the balance of probability  when in 
dispute.  
I cannot decide  the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances. That is the basis on which  the merits of complaint will be determined if we have 
jurisdiction to consider it.
the compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider a complaint under  its compulsory jurisdiction if that 
complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm  in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). Positive Solutions is a firm under our rules, and it does 
not dispute that. 
As DISP  2.3.3G explains, complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for 
which the firm  is responsible (including  business of any appointed representative  or agent for 
which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether this complaint can be 
considered under the compulsory jurisdiction of this service:  
1.Were the acts about  which  Mr and Mrs M complain done in the carrying  on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd responsible  for those acts?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook section of the FSA Handbook (COBS).
Ref: DRN733472119regulated activities
An activity is a regulated activity if it is an activity of a specified kind that is carried  on by way of 
business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless otherwise specified (section 22, 
FSMA).
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of buying or 
selling a particular  investment which  is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO),  and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).  
the general  prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to 
do so, unless they are either an authorised  person or an exempt person. This is known as the 
general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about,  Positive Solutions  was an authorised person (also 
referred to as a firm  in regulators  rules).  That means it could carry  out regulated activities without 
being in breach  of the general prohibition.
Mr C was neither an authorised person nor exempt from authorisation.   [Mr Cs trading name] not a 
separate legal entity  it was just a trading name he used. That means  that if Mr C had carried out a 
regulated activity on his own behalf, whether in his own name or his trading  name, by way of 
business, he would have been in breach of the general prohibition. 
the approved  persons  regime
The approved persons regime  is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers by 
ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry  out certain  functions within the 
financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1) An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that no person  performs 
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
Positive Solutions was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a controlled 
function. 
Positive Solutions arranged for Mr C to be was registered on the FSA register as CF22 Investment 
Adviser (trainee) from 2005 to 2007  and CF30  Customer from 2007 to 2010.   
The approved persons regime  does not depend on an individuals  employment  status. Employees  can 
be approved  persons,  as can non-employees like Mr C.  
breach of statutory duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to contravention of 
specific rules made by the FSA under FSMA. 
Ref: DRN733472120One such  rule in place at the time of the events Mr and Mrs M complain about was COBS 9.2.1(1)R,  
which said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation,  is suitable 
for its client.
Mr and Mrs M were  private persons under section 150(1) of FSMA  and private customers under COB 
5.3.5R. Broadly, those terms covered  all natural persons   subject to some exceptions.  I am satisfied 
that no exceptions applied to Mr and Mrs M  they were not a firm, and they were not carrying out any 
regulated activities  by way of business. They  were simply ordinary  consumers.
That means that if Mr and Mrs M suffered a loss as a result  of a rule breached  by Positive  Solutions, 
they would have a right of action against Positive Solutions for breach of statutory duty.  They  would 
have no such right against  Mr C, because  he was not a firm.
what is the complaint?
The complaint is that Mr and Mrs M were  given unsuitable advice to surrender funds in their Skandia 
Bonds causing them expense and unsuitable  advice to reinvest in two Stirling Mortimer  funds.
were the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about done  in the carrying  on of a regulated activity?
I understand that Positive Solutions does  not deny that a regulated activity  took place. It objects to my 
consideration of this complaint because it says it was not responsible for any advice  Mr and Mrs M 
received  not because it says they did not receive  advice  at all. 
Advice to a person  in their capacity as an investor on the merits  of selling  or buying a particular 
investment is a regulated  activity under Article  53 RAO. So advice to sell units  in the Skandia 
investment was regulated investment advice. And so was advice to invest in the Stirling Mortimer  
funds.
was Positive Solutions  responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about?
In my view there is evidence to show that Mr C did give the 2008 advice as alleged. He advised  Mr 
and Mrs M to surrender some or their Skandia investment  because  of concerns about performance 
and the economic situation  generally.   He  recommended the invest some of their money  in Stirling 
Mortimer instead.
He clearly did this as a Positive Solutions adviser since he recorded it on its system  and Positive  
Solutions compliance department gave him feedback on the advice. In effect the compliance 
department told him that advice was not acceptable to Positive Solutions.  It is not recorded  why. It 
may be Positive Solutions did not have an agency agreement with Stirling Mortimer.  Or perhaps 
because it did not think the investments were  suitable. 
What then happens is Mr C continued with the investment recommendation. The surrendered  still 
went ahead  probably  at the same time Mr C was being told by the compliance department not to do 
what he was doing. And the investment application went ahead. And yet Mr C made a note on 
Positive Solutions system to say Mr and Mrs M were not going to proceed.  
It seems clear Mr C was trying to mislead  Positive Solutions in the records he was keeping.   
There is no evidence  that Mr C told Mr and Mrs M that the advice he had given them  on behalf of 
Positive Solutions had not been approved by Positive Solutions after all.   There is no evidence that 
he explained that he would instead give that advice and arrange  the investment  in a separate  
capacity.   
Ref: DRN733472121It is my view that the first 2008 advice was given  by Mr C when he was holding himself out as a 
Positive Solutions adviser and that Mr and Mrs M understood he was acting on that basis.
The events of 2008 show that Mr Cs record keeping was not reliable. It is my view that in 2009 Mr C 
did give the advice to surrender £60,000 from the Skandia bonds  and the advice to invest £20,000 
each in Prudential  Bonds and £20,000 in Stirling Mortimer Coratina fund. Mr C did not record all that 
advice in Positive  Solution records  most likely because by then he knew it would  not be approved by 
Positive Solutions.  
Again Mr C was misleading Positive Solutions. And again there is no evidence  to show (if it were the 
cases) that Mr C explained  that part of his advice  was given in one capacity (the investment in the 
Prudential) and part in another (the surrender advice  and the investment in Stirling Mortimer, neither 
of which were approved by Positive  Solutions).
It is my view that the 2009 advice was given  by Mr C when he was holding himself out as a Positive 
Solutions adviser and that Mr and Mrs M understood he was acting on that basis.
Positive Solutions  says the agent was not authorised to give such advice on its behalf
The finding that Mr C gave the disputed advice is not the end of the matter. Positive  Solutions point is 
that if Mr C did give advice he was not doing so in his capacity as a registered individual (or agent) of 
Positive Solutions.
what was the adviser authorised to do by Positive Solutions?
Agency is a relationship  between  two parties where  they agree  that one will act on behalf of the other 
so as to affect its relations with third parties.  The one on whose behalf  acts are to be done is called 
the principal. The one who is to act is called the agent. In other words, the principal authorises the 
agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation of that authority can take a number of forms. And it is usual for the authority to be limited 
in nature.
The law recognises different forms of agency. 
In this case there is a written  agency  agreement which  gives express  actual authority  to Mr C.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied authority to do what is necessary  for, or ordinarily  
incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr C said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
And Institution is defined as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Ref: DRN733472122Taken in isolation paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce applications  
for new contracts for Positive Solutions approved products.  
However the agency  agreement  is a contract and, as always, the whole  contract  has to be considered 
in order to interpret its meaning. Other relevant or potentially relevant clauses include:
Paragraph 2.4:
The relationship between the Company and the Registered Individual  shall be strictly that of 
principal and Registered Individual and not in any way that of employer and employee. The 
Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations of the Registered 
Individual in the course of carrying out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the 
course of performance  of duties hereby  contracted,  but only to the extent that it would be 
responsible at common law or by virtue of any statutory enactment  or regulation, or by virtue 
of the Rules of any organisation (including  FSA) of which the Company is member  for the 
time being. In particular, the Company shall not be bound by acts of the Registered Individual  
which exceed  the authority granted under the provision  of the Agreement or by fraudulent  
acts of the Registered Individual  or the Registered Individuals staff.
Paragraph 3.1:
This clause required a Registered Individual  to be registered with the FSA. 
Paragraph 4.3:
This required the Registered Individual  to conduct  business on Positive  Solutions terms of 
business. 
Paragraph 10.1:
This clause required the Registered  Induvial to conduct  himself in adherence to the FSA 
rules.
Paragraph 10.4:
This clause prohibited the Registered Induvial from procuring persons  to enter into agreement 
otherwise than through Positive Solutions agency.
 
Paragraph 10.7:
Any act or omission of the Registered Individual  shall be treated  as an act or omission of the 
Company. It is therefore imperative  that the Registered Individual adheres to the strict rules 
laid down by the FSA and the Companys procedures manuals.
Paragraph 14.:
Under this section the Registered  Individual agreed to indemnify Positive Solutions if it 
incurred and claims  or liability in respect of the Registered Individuals acts or omissions. 
So amongst other things,  its the case that the agent is appointed to do business with clients in 
accordance with Positive Solutions terms of business  and the registered individual is required to carry  
on the business in accordance with the FSAs rules and Positive Solutions procedures manual. 
As mentioned  above, at the time of the events complained about in this case, as required by 
paragraph 3.1 of the Agency  agreement Mr C was registered on the FSA register. It showed that he 
was approved  to perform  the controlled  function CF30  Customer with Positive  Solutions. 
Ref: DRN733472123The Positive  Solutions Compliance Manual recorded that Positive Solutions was authorised to advise 
on investments (amongst other things).
It is therefore  clear to me, taking all the above into account, that  subject to conditions  
Mr C was appointed to advise on investments on behalf of Positive Solution and not just to introduce 
applications for new policies.
Registered individuals such as Mr C were appointed as, and held out by Positive  Solutions as, 
independent financial  advisers able to advise  on investments as authorised and regulated by the FSA. 
That advice process is, and is required  to be, more  than just a sales  job.  
Advising a person  in their capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the merits  of their buying  or 
selling an investment  covered by the FSMA 2000 is a regulated  activity under Article 53 of the 
Regulated Activities Order 2000.
Agreeing to carry on certain  regulated  activities including  advising on investments  is itself a regulated 
activity (under  Article  64).
And arranging deals in investments is a regulated activity under Article 25.
Carrying on such regulated activities by way of business is a criminal offence  unless the person doing  
so is authorised (or exempt  but that is not relevant  here). Positive  Solutions was authorised by the 
FSA to carry on all of those activities at the time of the disputed advice.  And it was subject to the 
FSAs rules when carrying on those activities.
Without going  into too much  detail giving compliant  investment  advice involves  getting  to know a 
client and reviewing  their financial position, their objectives, attitude to risk etc and giving  advice that 
is suitable to those  circumstances.  In broad  terms this process is set out in COBS 9.2 and the Positive 
Solutions Compliance Manual.  
When Positive Solutions agrees to give investment advice (which it gives through  its registered  
individuals) it cannot  know  at the outset what advice it will give. First Positive  Solutions (through its 
registered individual) must  assess the clients current financial position, objectives, attitude to risk and 
so on. When it has done that, suitable investment advice from Positive Solutions (given  through its 
registered individual) might, depending on the circumstances discovered, be:
1.Invest money that is not currently invested in a new plan approved  by Positive Solutions.
2.Sell an existing  investment and buy a new plan approved by Positive Solutions because it is 
in the clients best interest to sell and to buy.
3.Do not sell an existing investment to buy a new plan approved by Positive  Solutions because 
it is not in the clients interest to sell and to buy.  
4.Do not buy a particular approved Positive Solutions investment the client is interested  in 
because it is not suitable for the client (because it is too high risk or not currently affordable 
for example)  and so not in the clients best interest to buy.
Each one of these possible scenarios involves regulated investment advice by Positive Solutions 
(given through the registered  individual) and, as I have said, Positive Solutions,  does not know which 
of those or other possible scenarios will play out at the start of the advice process. And three of those  
scenarios involve more than introducing new applications for new plans. And the second and third 
might involve advising  on the merits of selling  plans Positive Solutions has not approved.
If a Positive Solutions registered individual was only authorised by Positive  Solutions to introduce 
applications for new plans possible scenarios 2, 3 and 4 would seem to involve  the registered 
individual acting unlawfully.  So this possible restricted interpretation of the authority given by Positive 
Solutions to its registered individual cant be right.  
Ref: DRN733472124In my view it must be the case that the registered individuals appointment is wider  than only 
introducing applications for new approved contracts.  In my view this is either:
the meaning of clause 2.1 when read with clause  2.4, and the rest of the agreement, and/or
or it is the express or implied  authority  from all the processes set out in Positive  Solutions own 
requirements on its registered individuals as result of the FSA conduct  of business rules it is 
subject to.
In saying  all that, I do not say that the appointment of the registered individual is unconditional.  I only 
say at this point that the authority goes wider  than only introducing applications  for new approved 
contracts. In my view the registered individuals authority does include giving  advice on the merits  of 
selling existing investments in some  circumstances.
So it is my view, in this case, that Positive Solutions authority to Mr C did potentially include advice on 
the merits of selling existing investments as well as the introduction of applications  for new contracts. 
did the agents express  authority cover the advice in this case?
An agent is required to act in the interests of the principal. This principle is reflected in some of the 
provisions of the agency agreement referred to above. It seems the agent  is likely to have breached 
those terms  in this case. 
Further, it is difficult to see that giving advice  to invest in a fund after being told not to give that advice 
was acting  in the interests of the principal,  Positive  Solutions.
It is therefore  my view that the agent was not acting within the express authority in relation to the 
disputed advice.  
That is not however the end of the matter.    There is also apparent (or ostensible) authority to consider.  
apparent authority
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts 
outside of that actual  authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the agents acts if 
those acts were within the agents apparent  authority. This is the case even if the agent was acting 
fraudulently and in furtherance of his own interest  provided the agent is acting within his apparent 
authority. 
This type of authority was described  by Diplock  LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties 
(Mangal) Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between  the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
Ref: DRN733472125representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock LJ referred to contractors, the law on apparent  authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including consumers like Mr and Mrs M.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot  arise  on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. For 
apparent authority to operate, there must be a representation by the principal that the agent has its 
authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in Freeman, 
The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle  as stated in 
Article 74 in Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency  16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 Comm,  Jacobs J endorsed 
Parker Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSSs 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case  was not concerned  
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin , the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
Ref: DRN733472126in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA [1985]  UKHL 11, 
Lord Keith said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
must the third party  rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf will only fix the 
principal with liability  to the third party (here Mr and Mrs M) if the third party relied  on that 
representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is sufficient 
evidence of reliance on the representation  as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts of that case, Jacobs J placed weight on the fact the majority of the claimants 
had never  heard of the defendant, Sense  Network, and that those who had heard of it made  their 
decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery which they later said 
contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes  clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a representation is dependent 
on the circumstances of that individual case. 
Here, I must consider  whether, on the facts  of this individual  case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr and Mrs M that Mr C had Positive Solutions 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains  about, and
Mr and Mrs M relied on that representation in entering into the transactions they now 
complain about.
Having considered  the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far as 
representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether Positive  Solutions placed Mr C in a position 
which would objectively  generally be regarded  as carrying its authority to enter into transactions  such  
as the investment in the Stirling Mortimer  funds  and the surrender of existing investments in order to 
do so. Put another way, did Positive Solutions knowingly  or even unwittingly  lead Mr and Mrs M to 
believe that Mr C was authorised to conduct business on its behalf of a type (namely, advising and 
arranging investments)  that he was not in fact authorised  to conduct?
Ref: DRN733472127I also need  to decide whether Mr and Mrs M relied  on any representation Positive Solutions made. 
Having considered  Parker Js comments in Martin , if Mr and Mrs M proceeded throughout  on the 
footing that in giving advice  Mr C was acting in every  respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with 
authority from Positive Solutions so to act, then this suggests I should  conclude  that Mr and Mrs M 
relied on Positive Solutions representation.
who was Mr C acting for when he carried out the acts complained of? 
In this case Mr C advised Mr and Mrs M on the merits of selling units in their existing investments. Mr 
C also advised  on investing  in new investments with Prudential and Stirling Mortimer.
As I have said above Mr C was holding  himself out as Positive Solutions adviser when he gave that 
advice.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they understood Mr C to be acting as Positive  Solutions adviser  when he 
gave that advice. I accept that is the case.
did Positive Solutions represent to Mr and Mrs M that Mr C had the relevant authority?
Mr and Mrs M had an existing client/adviser relationship  by the time of the 2008 and 2009 advice. 
As I understand it, its not in dispute  that Mr C did give investment advice on behalf of Positive  
Solutions before  the events  complained  about  in 2008 and 2009.
It is not clear that Mr and Mrs M received a terms of business agreement  in respect of the disputed 
advice. Nevertheless  it is my view that in principle  an agent of Positive Solutions was authorised  to:
advise on the setting up of investment such as the Stirling Mortimer investments
advise on the surrender of existing  investment in order  to make such new investments. 
These activities were provided  for in Positive Solutions procedures. None  of these  activities were in 
themselves novel or exceptional or unexpected for an IFA. These are activities that fall within  the 
class of activities that IFAs are usually  authorised to do. Any restrictions  on the authority to give such 
advice would not have  been  visible  to Mr and Mrs M. So for example he would not know that an 
adviser should only recommend approved investments, should obtain clearance from Positive 
Solutions before  giving  certain types of advice  and should present  the advice in certain ways.
Positive Solutions placed Mr C in a position  which  would,  in the outside  world, generally be regarded 
as having authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about.   
Positive Solutions authorised Mr C to give investment  advice  on its behalf.  
Positive Solutions arranged for Mr C to appear on the FSA register in respect of Positive Solutions.  
And Mr C was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent financial adviser that gave advice and offered 
products from the whole  of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information was provided 
to clients  or potential  clients about the agent being authorised in relation  to approved  products only.   
Positive Solutions provided Mr C with Positive business stationery and its computer systems for 
things like its know your client questionnaire/records.
It was in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr and Mrs M to understand that 
it was taking  responsibility  for the advice given by its financial advisers.  I am satisfied that Positive  
Solutions intended Mr C to act on its representation that Mr C was its financial  adviser.
Ref: DRN733472128I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions business. 
It said in its terms of business that its partners would  give impartial,  independent financial advice. I 
do not see how Positive  Solutions could  have  carried out its business  activities at all if the general  
public had not treated registered individuals like Mr C as having authority to give investment advice  on 
behalf of Positive Solutions.
did Mr and Mrs M rely on Positive Solutions representation?  
Mr and Mrs M have  said they understood Mr C to be acting as Positive  Solutions adviser  when he 
gave that advice. 
It is my view that there is evidence that Mr C misled  Positive Solutions. I see no reason  why he would 
have been more  open with Mr and Mrs M. I think it more likely he would have been similarly prepared  
to mislead them.  
This seems to be a straightforward  matter  of a client dealing with their existing  Positive  Solutions 
adviser because he was a Positive  Solutions  adviser  - the Positive Solutions adviser who had 
previously recommended the Skandia investments and was now recommending changes  he justified 
in light of changing circumstances.   
There is no evidence  to show  that Mr and Mrs M knew or should have known that 
Mr C was acting in any capacity  other than a Positive Solutions adviser.
In my view,  on balance, the evidence does  indicate  that Mr and Mrs M proceeded on the basis that Mr 
C was acting  in every  respect  as the agent  of Positive Solutions  with authority from Positive Solutions 
so to act.
is it just for Positive Solutions  to be required  to bear any losses caused by Mr C?
The courts have taken into account whether it is just to require a principal  to bear a loss caused by 
the wrongdoing  of his agent. I have considered  whether  it is just to hold Positive  Solutions responsible 
for any detriment Mr and Mrs M has suffered as result of the advice they received from Mr C. I think 
there is evidence that he misled Positive Solutions and proceeded to do something he had been told 
not to do. Nevertheless  I think  it is just to hold Positive Solutions  responsible for the consequences of 
its putting  Mr C in the position where  Mr and Mrs M could suffer loss as a result of his actions.  In 
particular, I note:
Positive Solutions was in a position to monitor Mr Cs behaviour. 
Positive Solutions did not tell Mr and Mrs M it had put any of the limits on his authority that it 
says are relevant here.
Positive Solutions agency agreement acknowledges that it will be held responsible for the 
wrongs of its agents  and includes and requires the agent to provide it with an indemnity it 
respect of any losses etc it suffers as result of such wrongs.
So overall I consider that it is just for Positive Solutions to be required to bear any losses caused by 
any wrong doing done  by Mr C whilst carrying  on the a controlled function assigned to him by Positive 
Solutions.
vicarious liability
I think  it is also appropriate  for me to consider whether Positive  Solutions is vicariously  liable for the 
actions of Mr C  independently of whether apparent authority also operated such as to fix Positive  
Solutions with liability for the actions of its agents.  
Ref: DRN733472129what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict,  no-fault liability for wrongs  committed by another 
person. 
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic example  of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability  is the employment relationship, but Mr C was not 
an employee  of Positive Solutions.  However, the employment relationship is not the only relationship 
capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage  test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship between  the wrongdoer and the 
principal (Cox v Ministry  of Justice  [2016]  UKSC 10).
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable 
(Mohamud  WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016] UKSC 11).
There is some uncertainty  in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should  be applied. I note that in 
Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018]EWCA  Civ 431 the Court of Appeal explicitly  declined to decide 
whether the test in Cox applied to Positive Solutions relationship with another of its registered 
individuals. 
If it were  the case that vicarious liability  could  never have anything  to do with principals and agents 
then I consider it likely that the Court of Appeal would have  simply said so. But in any event, the 
relationship between  Mr C and Positive Solutions was not just an agency relationship. Mr C was 
registered with the FSA as an approved  person able to carry out regulated  activities on Positive  
Solutions behalf, and this complaint is about the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
deals in investments. I consider that it would  be wrong  for me to simply ignore or set aside  the 
regulatory background in reaching my decision.  
I am not aware of any case  law concerning the exact set of circumstances that Mr and 
Mrs M complain about. But that does not prevent me from applying the law as I understand it to be. In 
Cox, Lord Reed said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
Had Mr and Mrs M referred this matter to a court  instead of to the ombudsman  service, I consider  that 
the court  is likely to have  chosen to apply the approach  suggested  by Lord Reed. I will therefore  do 
the same.
the stage one test
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer  and employee, may be 
capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach  adopted by Lord Phillips  in Various Claimants v Catholic Child 
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
Ref: DRN733472130I am satisfied  that in giving investment advice  to Mr and Mrs M to surrender units  in the Skandia 
investments to reinvest in alternative investments  Mr C was carrying on activities as an integral part of 
the business activities  carried on by Positive Solutions. I say that because:
At the time, Positive Solutions stated purpose was To help our clients,  Understand,  Protect 
and Increase their Assets. I consider that the provision of, and subsequent implementation  
of, investment advice is an integral  part of fulfilling  that purpose. 
Positive Solutions business model  was that it gave financial advice itself, through its 
Partners. As set out in its partnership code, those  Partners  promised to give impartial, 
independent financial  advice.  
Positive Solutions status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach of the general  
prohibition when it gave investment advice to members  of the public. So, when  its Partners 
gave investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions, carrying  out Positive Solutions 
business activities, those Partners were not in breach of the general  prohibition either.
Mr C was a Positive Solutions Partners. Positive Solutions had given him permission  to carry 
out the controlled functions Investment Adviser (Trainee), then Investment  Adviser and 
CF 30 Customer on behalf of Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions had therefore  engaged 
Mr C to carry out activities that were an integral part of its business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right,  set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance was published 
some time after the events  Mr and Mrs Ms complain of took place,  the relevant parts  of the legislation  
(in respect of permissions to give regulated  financial  advice) have not changed substantively. I 
therefore consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in PERG,  which  says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee .
Positive Solutions clearly  intended Mr C to fall outside the general prohibition when acting on Positive 
Solutions behalf in giving and implementing investment advice. As Ive said, I consider that the only 
way in which Mr C could have fallen outside the general prohibition would be on the basis that he was 
carrying on Positive  Solutions business rather than his own.  In my view, the guidance therefore  
provides support for the contention that Mr Cs relationships with Positive  Solutions were  very similar 
to employment relationships. 
Further, in allowing  Mr C to give investment advice on its behalf, Positive  Solutions was creating the 
risk that he might make errors or act negligently in doing so. Positive Solutions assigned  to Mr C the 
customer facing task of giving regulated financial advice to Positive  Solutions  customers, and it is 
always possible  for that task to be carried out negligently.
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely connected with the business  
activities of his principal as to make  it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud,  the test requires a court  to make an evaluative judgment in each 
case having regard to all the circumstances  and having regard to the assistance provided by previous 
decisions on the facts  of other cases. That is not a precise test, but the courts  have recognised the 
inevitability of imprecision given the infinite range  of circumstances where the issue of vicarious 
liability arises .
Ref: DRN733472131In the particular circumstances  of this complaint, I consider that it is just for Positive Solutions to be 
held responsible for the actions Mr C complains about. I note:
Mr C was giving investment advice  and filling in forms to put that advice into practice. I 
consider both of those  activities are closely connected to the business activities of Positive  
Solutions, a firm which provided financial advice and arranged investment transactions for its 
customers (including Mr and Mrs M).
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously  liable here, then Mr and Mrs Ms ability  to obtain  
compensation would depend on whether the Positive Solutions Partner  he dealt with was an 
employee of Positive  Solutions.  In Cox, the court  suggested it would have been  unreasonable 
and unfair  for the claimants ability to receive  compensation  for the injury  she suffered while 
working in a prison kitchen to depend on whether the worker who injured  her was an 
employee or a prisoner. I consider that argument has even more  relevance here  at least  
Mrs Cox is likely to have either  known  or had the ability to find out who was an employee  and 
who was a prisoner. But Mr and Mrs M had no way of knowing Mr Cs employment status. (I 
am aware that Mr Cs agency contract said he had to make his status as a registered 
individual clear  but even if he had done that, the term Registered Individual did not imply 
anything about his employment  status).
The agency contracts say Positive Solutions will not be responsible if Mr C acts outside his 
authority. But the contract also says that any act or omission of the registered  individual will 
be treated as an act of Positive Solutions. In my view, those two terms conflict. I do not 
consider it would be fair for Positive  Solutions to be entitled to rely on one but ignore the 
other.
Positive Solutions received no benefit from the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about,  and in 
particular it did not receive any commission.  But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud , 
vicarious liability can apply  even where  an employee  has abused his position  in a way that 
cannot possibly  have been of benefit to his employer  such  as carrying  out a private fraud or 
assaulting a customer.  In Frederick, Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously liable  
despite having received  commission. The commission issue  is not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions  I have  reached are different to the conclusions reached by the 
court in Frederick . In that case, Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously  liable for the 
conduct of a named Mr Warren. I have not seen the whole of Mr Warrens agency contract  with 
Positive Solutions, but from the sections quoted in the judgment the terms in his contract  appear to be 
identical to the terms in Mr Cs contract.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts here that I do not consider that the same 
outcome is inevitable  in this complain. In particular,  I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were  approached  by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a registered 
individual of Positive  Solutions.  Mr Qureshi induced them to invest in a property scheme, 
which he was running jointly with Mr Warren.  The claimants had no personal dealings  with 
[Mr] Warren and did not meet him or receive  any written communications from himthere was 
no semblance  of an advice process. Here, Mr and Mrs M had personal dealings  with Mr C, 
Positive Solutions registered individual.  They met with Mr C who provided  them with advice. 
Mr C carried out business activities of a type that had been specifically assigned to him by 
Positive Solutions, and which  he could  only (lawfully) perform on behalf of Positive  Solutions.
 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage  applications for loans on behalf of 
the claimants. Mr and Mrs M make  no allegation  of fraud. They only complain  about  the 
suitability of the advice for them.  Their allegation is one of negligence and/or breach of 
statutory duty. They do not say as such that Mr C was dishonest  even if it has come to light 
that he seems to have acted in a way to mislead  Positive Solutions. There  is therefore  no 
need for me to consider whether Positive Solutions would  have been vicariously liable for any 
dishonest acts by Mr C.
Ref: DRN733472132Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage applications  in the way he did because  he 
was an agent of Positive Solutions. But the claimants  in Frederick did not say they had 
suffer[ed]  any loss through the actual re-mortgaging  or their receipt  of monies from [the 
lender]. Instead, they suffered losses only when they handed the money  over to Mr Warren  
(or to the company of which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors). In contrast, Mr and 
Mrs M say they suffered losses as a direct  result of the advice given to him by Mr C, in his 
capacity as a Positive  Solutions financial adviser, to surrender  units in Skandia and invest in 
Stirling Mortimer. 
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud  are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and Mohamud are not 
applicable to Mr C, Positive Solutions,  and the specific acts Mr C complains about.  The applicability of 
those tests to agency relationships is unclear, as is their applicability to some or all of the reliance-
based torts, possibly including  negligent  mis-statement.  
Even if those  specific tests  are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a court to 
consider whether Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the actions of 
Mr C. The earlier cases, including Armagas and the Christian Brothers case [2012]  UKSC 56, make 
clear that justice is the courts overriding concern in such matters.  Where the claimant and the 
defendant are both innocent parties, the court will consider  whether the circumstances under which  
the wrongdoer committed his wrong were  such as to make it just for the defendant  to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind  the regulatory position, I consider that in the particular circumstances of this case it is 
just to require Positive Solutions to bear any loss caused by negligent investment advice provided by 
Mr C.
From a public  policy point  of view, one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for the 
protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which  both FSMA and 
the FSA gave  effect  to that protection. Mr C was a Positive  Solutions approved persons. In view of 
section 59(1) of FSMA, I consider that when Mr C carried out the regulated activity of advising on 
investments, and arranging deals in investments,  those activities  were the activities of Positive  
Solutions. Positive Solutions is clearly responsible for its own activities.  I see no support in FSMA   or 
anywhere else  for the belief that Positive Solutions responsibility for its approved persons was 
dependent on the precise nature of its contracts with those people  (agency/non-agency). Similarly,  I 
do not see anything to suggest Positive Solutions responsibility depends  on whether  the approved 
persons conduct is classified in terms of one type of tort (reliance-based) or another. I would  be 
surprised if a court were  to take the view that such distinctions were relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I therefore  consider  that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and Mrs M complain 
about regardless of whether Mr C carried out those acts with apparent authority on behalf of Positive 
Solutions. (However, as I have said I consider  that Mr C did in fact act with Positive  Solutions 
apparent authority when they carried out the acts complained of.) 
statutory responsibility  under  section 150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive give above, I am satisfied that when  Mr C gave the advice complained of, and 
when Mr C arranged the associated deals in investments,  he was both acting in his capacity as 
Positive Solutions approved persons for the purpose of carrying on Positive Solutions regulated 
business. He was not carrying  on a business of his own.
That means Positive Solutions is subject  to the Conduct of Business  (COBS) suitability rules in 
respect of Mr Cs advice. If Mr Cs advice was not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised defences)  
Positive Solutions is responsible in damages to Mr and Mrs M under the statutory cause of action 
provided by section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider  that section  150 of FSMA provides an 
alternative route by which  Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts complained of.
Ref: DRN733472133summary of my provisional findings on jurisdiction
Having considered  all of the circumstances here, as well as the legal  authorities,  I am provisionally 
satisfied that: 
Positive Solutions represented to Mr and Mrs M that Mr C had Positive  Solutions authority 
both to advise on the surrender of units in the Skandia investment bonds and the re-
investment in the Stirling Mortimer funds. 
In addition  or in the alternative  Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and 
Mrs M complain  about. 
Positive Solutions also has statutory  responsibility under section 150 of FSMA  for the acts 
complained about.
I am therefore satisfied that Positive  Solutions is responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs M complains 
about. Even if I am wrong about one or two of the above three  conclusions, I still consider that the 
third means  that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Positive Solutions falls within  my jurisdiction.
my provisional  findings  on merits
When considering all the available  evidence and arguments in order  to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint  I have also formed a provisional  view about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.
In 2008 Mr and Mr M both had bonds with Skandia. They  were  recorded  as having  a medium or slightly 
lower than medium attitude  to risk. Some if not all of the fund in the Skandia bonds were  invested in the 
Gartmore Cautious Managed Fund. All of the surrendered units  were  invested in that fund.  
The Stirling Mortimer  funds  seem to have been recommended on the basis they were  lower risk 
investments as they were  not correlated to the stock market and had some contractual guarantees.  
The investments were  not however low risk. They  were higher risk specialist funds. They  invested in 
one asset type in developing  economies. They were in effect investing in properties  that had not yet 
been built.  
The funds were Channel Island qualified  Investor funds meaning they should only have been 
promoted to relevant experienced or expert investors. Mr and Mrs M were not such investors
The Stirling Mortimer  funds  were not suitable  for Mr and Mrs M and should  not have been 
recommended to them.
The money  that was invested in Stirling Mortimer should instead  have stayed  in the Skandia bonds  in 
the funds which seem  consistent with Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk. If that had happened Mr and 
Mrs M would not have  suffered the withdrawal charges and tax charges incurred in respect of those  
charges.
As for the Prudential  investment, this was recommended to replace,  in part, an existing investment. 
The Skandia  investment had not been held for long and should have  been viewed  as at least a 
medium term investment (just as the Prudential  investment was). There needs to be a good reason  to 
surrender units from the first investment in order to invest in the second because of the inevitable 
charges that would be involved. Mr C did not analyse those charges in his recommendation reports or 
warn about  the charges  that would  be involved.    
I cannot presently  see that the Prudential  investment  advice was suitable  in the circumstances  either.  
(Having said that it is possible that this advice may not have caused Mr and Mrs M loss if the 
Prudential investment  perfumed sufficiently well compared to the Skandia investment  to cover  the 
additional expenses  incurred.)
Ref: DRN733472134how to put things right
The purpose  of redress is to try to put Mr and Mrs Ms investment back into the position  they would 
have been but for the unsuitable advice  from Positive  Solutions.
Positive Solutions should therefore find out from Skandia what Mr and Mr Ms investments  would now 
be worth if the 2008 and 2009  withdrawal and reinvestments had not been made. Calculating  the 
present value  would have the effect  of cancelling  out the early  encashment charges for the purposes 
of the calculation  any loss. If the Skandia and/or Prudential investment(s) have been closed, the 
value(s) when closed will need to be used in the calculations instead of the present notional value.  
In addition to the tax charges incurred  by Mr M in respect of the chargeable events of partial 
surrender should be added to the above if evidence  can be provided to show the charges and when 
they were paid.  
I also think  that Mrs M has been caused considerable trouble and upset by the unsuitable advice she 
received and the losses she had suffered. I consider that Positive Solutions £300 in this respect.
The compensation  should be paid within  28 days of Positive  Solutions being  notified of acceptance of 
my final decision. If it is not interest at 8% simple  interest per year is to be paid on the compensation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that we can consider this complaint,
the complaint should be upheld and Positive solutions should pay fair compensation as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7334721