K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005.  Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mrs P in case  she 
was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ps PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application  offered them the choice to take or turn down PPI. The 
option to buy PPI was chosen, and it was noted  what type of cover  they wanted.  Mr and 
Mrs P signed the form to confirm their choices. They also submitted a separate  application 
specifically for PPI, with again they both signed, where they set out what  benefit they wanted 
and that they wanted cover for Mrs P only. They also set up a direct debit to pay for the 
policy, separately to paying  for the mortgage  itself  the PPIs cost was not part and parcel of 
the mortgage. The record of the advice recorded  that Mr and Mrs P wanted  PPI to be sure 
Mrs Ps income was adequately insured, and Mr and Mrs P signed  below to confirm what  
was discussed.  Then  the key features and mortgage  offer documents  reiterated that Mr and 
Mrs P didnt have to buy any insurance from NatWest  if they didnt want to, described the 
PPI as optional, and set out its cost as separate to the mortgages  cost. Overall, I think that 
NatWest made Mr and Mrs P aware they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they 
chose to take it  though I understand if they no longer remember doing so after so long.
This was an advised  sale where NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it had 
to check it was right for them. And based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think it was. For example, Mr P wasnt eligible for cover,  so it makes sense that it was 
set up to cover Mrs P only. Mrs P wasnt affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations. She only had limited benefits  through work, whereas the PPI wouldve covered 
her for longer and paid out on top of her work benefits. And Mr and Mrs P dont seem  to 
have had any savings.  I understand Mr P had his own income,  but it still wouldve been a 
significant drop in the household  income if Mrs P lost hers. The documents  from the time 
record that Mr and Mrs P wanted to insure Mrs Ps income, which seems sensible.  Its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs P fell behind on their mortgage payments, they risked 
losing their home. I think the PPI couldve been useful for them  in protecting their home.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly, based  on the benefit Mr and Mrs P had chosen.  
So I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for it.
Ref: DRN70456742It is possible that NatWest didnt point out the main  things  the policy wouldnt cover.  But as 
I said above, Mrs P doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
Lastly, Mr and Mrs P mentioned they might  be unhappy with the endowment mortgage itself. 
This case is only about their PPI policy, so Ive not looked into that here.  But they can make 
a separate complaint to NatWest about their endowment mortgage, and they may be able to 
bring that to our service as a separate case if needs  be.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  about the sale of 
this PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7045674