K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about advice from by Redbourne Wealth  Management Limited  (a 
member of Best Practice IFA Group  Limited) in 2013  to transfer benefits from a stakeholder 
pension (SHP) to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) with a new provider. 
Mr H says the advice  was unsuitable as he wasnt told about other, cheaper,  options. He 
also has concerns about  ongoing advice and says he was dissuaded from drawing from the 
SIPP and advised  to use other  funds.  He thinks that advice was wrong and has caused him 
to suffer  more income tax than he would otherwise have  done. 
background
Mr H complained to Best Practice  IFA Group  Limited (Best Practice)  in November 2017. 
Best Practice rejected  Mr Hs complaint. Mr H referred it to us. It was investigated by one of 
our adjudicators. He didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary he said:
In 2013 Mr H wanted to access the lump sum available from his SHP.  He didnt want  
to use the remaining  fund to provide an immediate income.  He needed to move to a 
contract with a drawdown facility  which his existing SHP didnt offer. 
Hed more recently  changed  advisers and switched to a personal pension with a new 
provider. The new arrangement was marginally  cheaper overall. But the charges for 
the original SIPP  werent excessive and didnt make the advice unsuitable. Mr H 
hadnt been charged more than was agreed  and hadnt been misled about  charges.
The Passive 5 Portfolio fund Mr H was advised  to invest in was rated by the adviser
as 5 or medium risk and wasnt out of line with the general level of risk Mr H was 
prepared to take. It wasnt unsuitable and it hadnt significantly underperformed. A 
comparison of the growth  in the value of Mr Hs SIPP  against  the benchmark  wed 
use if we considered the advice had been  unsuitable showed the SIPP had 
performed better. Mr H hadnt suffered any financial loss. 
In October 2014 Mr H was looking to withdraw  £600 pm (net) and pay as little (or no) 
tax on the withdrawals as possible. Had basic rate tax been paid hed have needed 
to have withdrawn around £9,000 pa gross from his SIPP. Given his other  pension  
income and assuming  he was entitled to the usual personal income tax allowance,  
hed have paid higher  rate income tax on part of the withdrawal.  Instead  he and his 
wife took the income as a combination  of withdrawals from individual  savings  
accounts (ISAs) and investment  bonds  (IVBs) which didnt create an immediate 
income tax liability  the IVB withdrawals within the 5% tax deferred withdrawal limit. 
This reduced the fund and future tax deferred withdrawals. But it allowed Mr H and 
his wife to take the money they wanted  without  paying any income tax, including 
higher rate tax on part of the withdrawal.
If Mr H had withdrawn  £15,000 in March 2016 from the SIPP  hed almost  certainly  
have had to pay higher rate income tax on part of the withdrawal.
The adviser was right to point  out in July 2017 the time it might take to reclaim any 
overpaid tax. Although  it wouldnt necessarily have taken months, there  would have 
been a delay and further administration to reclaim or settle any tax issues.  The 
adviser was also correct to warn  Mr H about  the need to take a larger gross 
withdrawal to achieve £15,000  net.
If Mr H continued to make withdrawals after hed got his state pension  hed pay 
higher rate tax on part of his income.  But that would  have been the case  if hed made 
withdrawals from the SIPP before his state  pension  was paid. 
Ref: DRN70578962Mr H didnt agree. His concerns fell under three  headings. In summary:  
The suitability of the SIPP 
He agreed it was suitable advice to transfer to a pension that allowed him to take his 
tax free cash and ad hoc income withdrawals. He didnt want  to buy an annuity in 
2013. His existing  SHP was ideal as it was straightforward, had a simple  charging 
structure and was invested  in a cash fund. 
He wasnt really  interested  in the markets  and only had a fairly basic understanding 
of pensions and investments.  When he sought professional advice he expected an 
adviser to understand his requirements  and use their specialist knowledge to make  
suitable recommendations.  
He told the adviser he wanted to take the tax free cash  to reduce his mortgage and 
defer taking an income. The adviser said hed need to move to a SIPP. He explained 
what that stood  for as Mr H hadnt  heard of it before. But there  were  two potential 
solutions: a SIPP  and a personal  pension. The adviser should  have  told him about 
both, explained  the differences, how each worked and the costs. 
The SHP cost 0.5% a year based on the fund value. After taking tax free cash  the 
fund was £160,689.56 which is £803.48 a year. Leaving  aside  adviser charges the 
personal pension  costs 0.4% a year which is £642.76 and the SIPP 0.71% which  is 
£1,140.90. Thats  £408.14 a year more which increases as the fund value goes up. 
When viewed over the term of Mr Hs retirement thats significant. His pension  fund is 
smaller because of the charges.  
Hed thought  the only way of taking his tax free cash and drawdown was a SIPP.  He 
should have been  told there was another option.  Hed have opted for a personal 
pension as it was more transparent, easier to understand and would have met his 
objectives. Instead a more expensive  and unnecessarily complicated product that he 
didnt understand  was recommended.  
There were  too many  parties  involved in the SIPP.  Including  Best Practice, 
Redbourne Wealth Management  Limited and the SIPP  provider (who was later taken 
over). His new adviser  had to explain the relationship between  all the different 
parties. He recommended  a switch to a simpler,  cheaper product.
Mr H queried  the charges when Redbourne Wealth Management Limited was 
removed from the contract. He thought the charges may have  increased  because his 
new adviser isnt a member of the network. 
He wanted access  to his pension but the adviser  constantly dissuaded him
From  the outset it was clear  that Mr Hs and his wifes requirements would involve 
accessing their pension funds for future  income  and other  expenditure. There  was no 
point, having saved for retirement, not being able to use the funds. Every  time they 
approached the adviser to raise funds  he treated the SIPP as sacrosanct and said 
other funds should be used.
At a meeting in May 2014 the adviser said Mr H should take £253 net pm from the 
SIPP to help meet a £400 pm income requirement. But the adviser later said the 
income requirement (which had increased  to £600) should be met from IVBs and 
ISAs. That was to be reviewed in April 2015 and the income from the IVBs and ISAs 
be reduced and replaced by income from the SIPP. But in April 2015  the adviser said 
to carry on taking  the income as they were  as emergency tax would be charged on 
withdrawals from the SIPP and it would take over a year to get the tax back. 
Ref: DRN70578963At a meeting in January 2016  the adviser said Mr H should start taking an income  of 
£175 pm but again that didnt materialise. And in May 2016  the adviser put Mr H off 
taking money out to buy a car, saying it would be quicker to take it from an IVB. 
More recently, when Mr H has withdrawn money  from his pension, it has taken less 
than two weeks to reach his bank account.  And he received the tax back within four 
weeks on the first payment, his adviser  having completed the claim form. When  Mr H 
took the second payment it was correctly taxed and no application had to be made 
for a refund. 
The adviser didnt  take notes during the meetings. Mr H should  have  been  asked to 
sign a note of the meeting so that the content could be agreed. The meeting  notes  
should be produced. 
The SIPP hadnt performed well. Mr Hs wife had set up her own personal pension  
and selected her own balanced risk fund which had performed much better over the 
same period. The adviser had advised them to drawdown from Mrs Hs pension and 
not the SIPP even though her pension was out performing  the SIPP.
Tax planning advice provided by the adviser was unsuitable
The adviser had disregarded the change in Mr Hs tax position  when his state 
pension became payable. That, plus the pension hes getting from his former 
employers scheme,  means  hell be a higher  rate tax payer  for the rest of his life. He 
could, over four tax years, have been taking  income  or ad hoc lump sums from his 
pension and only paying basic rate tax. He could have put the money in more  tax 
efficient funds such as ISAs.  Making  the withdrawals  now is going to cost him 40%.
He set out the extra tax hed have to pay if he now or in the future took sums 
equivalent to the difference between the pension he was getting from his former  
employers scheme  and the higher  rate tax threshold. Each  payment would have 
been in excess  of £6,000 a year (£20,361.50  in total). Hed have paid tax of 
£5,090.37 but, if he takes those payments now or in the future, hell pay additional 
tax of that amount. 
To put matters right Mr H wanted the initial  fee of £5,718  deducted from his SIPP  repaid on 
the basis that a more  expensive product was recommended when a cheaper  personal 
pension drawdown  plan would have provided  the same benefits. The ongoing adviser 
charge should  also be refunded because the adviser ignored his repeated requests to take 
money out of his pension. He instead advised  taking money out of ISAs  which, as a higher 
rate taxpayer in retirement,  would have been a useful source of tax free income. The 
additional tax hell now have to pay if he withdrew £20,361.50 should also be paid. 
Mr Hs current  adviser  said:
Mr H hadnt been treated  fairly  as his adviser only discussed  one option when a 
cheaper one was available. 
Mr H wanted to receive income  from his pension as he does now, that objective  
hadnt changed. Hed been repeatedly dissuaded from doing that. Hes taken out less 
money out as a basic tax payer.  
The adviser ignored the fact that Mr Hs tax position was going to change in 2020  
when he got his state pension. And hed become  a higher rate tax payer  as hed 
been during his working life. 
When Mr H had first consulted him in 2017 Mr H had said hed got over £200,000 in 
a pension which he couldnt touch. Hed spent four years thinking  he was going  to be 
Ref: DRN70578964able to take money out of it. But the adviser kept coming up with reasons to leave  the 
pension intact.  
We asked Best Practise for its comments on what Mr H and his new adviser had said.  
A refund of the initial  fee wasnt appropriate as Mr H couldnt have achieved  his objective 
of accessing the tax free cash  without  transferring to an alternative pension plan. So the 
fee, which Mr H agreed to, would have been  payable in any event.
Refunding ongoing adviser  fees wasnt appropriate. The adviser had been  in contact with 
Mr H at regular intervals  after the transfer  when Mr H requested access  to further  funds 
from his entire portfolio, which included his wifes pensions  and investments. 
About  the extra tax liability,  the figure quoted  may bear no correlation to actual events 
which might  happen in the future.
The retirement options booklet set out all the potential retirement options which were 
discussed in detail by the adviser.  And Mr H signed the suitability report  to say hed read 
and understood  it. 
Mr H had said he thought the SIPP would remain untouched in perpetuity  and only be 
left to his beneficiaries . That contracted  what hed said about wanting to access it for 
income. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator and with the 
reasons he gave. I realise Mr H will be disappointed.  es But I dont think, and despite 
carefully considering  the points he and his adviser  have made in response  to the 
adjudicators view, that the complaint should be upheld.   
Ive considered first the suitability of the SIPP that Best Practice recommended.  Mr H may 
have regarded his SHP as ideal  easy to understand and operate with transparent charges. 
And he seems happy that the bulk of his fund was held in cash and which reduced the 
charges. But theres no dispute that in 2013  he wanted to access  his tax free cash to reduce 
his mortgage.  His SHP didnt allow him to take his tax free cash and leave the remainder of 
his fund in the SHP.  So Mr H had to transfer to a drawdown product. 
Mr H has said that a SIPP wasnt necessary and he should have  had a personal pension 
drawdown plan instead. I understand thats what hes got now, having  transferred out of the 
SIPP on the advice  of his new adviser.  Its cheaper and Mr H also says he pays  less for 
better ongoing advice. But that doesnt mean the SIPP (which is a type of personal pension) 
was unsuitable  at the time. Provided  the product was suitable, met Mr Hs needs and the 
charges werent  unreasonable  and were properly explained, I think  thats  enough. I dont 
think an adviser has to recommend the cheapest option available.  
And I dont  think that any comparison  with what  Mr H is paying now is fair. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that a similar charging  product could have been  sourced at the time. Mr H 
transferred out of his SHP in 2013.  That was before the changes  to pensions which have 
resulted in far more drawdown  type products becoming available.  
In my view, the SIPP was relatively low cost so I dont think  it was unsuitable  from a charges 
perspective. Charges do of course reduce returns. I take Mr Hs point about the long term 
Ref: DRN70578965effect that higher charges could have on his fund.  Where excessive fees are charged  over a 
long period that will impact on the investors fund.  But here I dont think the SIPP fees were  
excessive.
I think the SIPP and how it would operate was adequately explained in the suitability letter  
and other  documentation. Drawdown arrangements, whether in relation to a SIPP  or a 
personal pension  contract, arent  without  complexities. 
I note what Mr Hs said about being confused by the number of parties involved. But even  if 
a personal pension had been recommended  Best Practice would still have been mentioned 
as its the network  of which  Redbourne Wealth Management Limited was a member.  And 
thered still have been a provider, albeit a personal pension provider not a SIPP provider. 
And fund managers  could  still have  been involved. 
Mr Hs SHP was held mainly in cash.  After hed taken his tax free cash the remainder of his 
fund was invested as Ive set out above.  I note what hes said about not really being  
interested in financial markets and being  reliant on professional advice. But I dont think  the 
portfolio Best Practice  recommended was unsuitable for him. It matched his attitude to risk 
and meant  that the fund had the opportunity to grow. If the fund had been  held in cash then 
it could have been depleted by charges.  
I also note what the adjudicator  said about the performance of Mr Hs fund and that, by 
comparison with the benchmark wed usually use for an investor with Mr Hs risk profile,  he 
hasnt suffered any financial loss. Mr H has said his wifes pension has performed better. But 
simply because another,  apparently similar  or same  risk rated  fund has done better, wont  
mean that theres  a legitimate issue about  performance. Its inevitable that some funds will 
do better than others. As Ive said, Mr Hs SIPP has outperformed our usual benchmark.
As to whether  the adviser deliberately sought to dissuade Mr H from accessing  his SIPP 
fund, I note Best Practices comment about  what Mr H said about the SIPP remaining 
untouched and that being contradictory.  But I think thats a misunderstanding  of what  Mr H 
meant. I think  the point  hes making is that he wanted to access  his SIPP  and he didnt want 
it to simply become part of his estate with he and his wife not having benefited from it at all. 
Ive looked at the instances that Mr H has pointed to. I know  Mr H says there was a pattern 
in the advisers  approach and there may be more times when Mr H says the adviser talked 
about Mr H taking a withdrawal from the SIPP  but then went  back on it. But I can only really 
look into the specific examples given.
In 2014 Mr H and his wife wanted an income  of £400 pm which increased to £600.  The 
advisers letter of 3 October  2014 records that Mr H wanted to arrange  things in the most tax 
efficient way  paying  as little tax as possible or preferably no tax. The adviser set out how 
the income, on a tax free basis, could be generated. I think the adviser was acting in 
accordance with the instructions hed been given. As the adjudicator  pointed  out, if Mr H had 
taken the gross amount from his SIPP necessary to pay that (net) income, hed have  paid 
higher rate tax on at least  some  of the amount withdrawn. 
The adviser said the position could  be reviewed in April 2015 and restructured to include 
some income from the SIPP. Mr H says that didnt happen because the adviser said that 
emergency tax would  be charged  and a repayment claim would take a year to process. I 
dont think, if that was what was said, that sort of timescale was right. But Mr H hasnt said 
Ref: DRN70578966that his and his wifes income requirements  couldnt  be met by continuing with the existing 
arrangements so I dont  see that any financial detriment  was suffered. 
Mr H says that at a meeting in January 2016  the adviser said Mr H should start taking an 
income of £175  pm but again that didnt  materialise. Id have thought, if Mr H needed  that 
extra money, hed have pushed the adviser to set something up. As things stand it may be 
that Mr H decided against. 
And in May 2016 the adviser put Mr H off taking money out to buy a car saying it would be 
quicker to take it from an IVB. Whether  it was quicker or not and even if claiming back  any 
overpaid tax wouldnt  have been difficult or time consuming, again it seems Mr H would have 
paid higher rate tax on at least  some  of the amount  drawn  down. 
I note what Mr H has said about  the adviser  not making meeting notes. I have seen some 
meeting notes  for example of the meeting  on 9 January 2016. Its generally good practice 
to keep a record  of what was discussed  at any meetings. And an agreed summary can help 
if theres a later dispute about what was said. But here Mr Hs complaint is about  the fact that 
income and expenditure requirements were  met from other assets. Its a matter of record 
that no withdrawals from the SIPP were  made.  And a meeting  note is probably  unlikely to 
capture all thats been said.  And, if the notes arent signed by both parties, there may still be 
a dispute about what was discussed and in what context. 
Ive considered if Mr H has been  disadvantaged in tax terms. I take Best Practices  point  that 
its adviser wasnt a tax specialist. And I recognise that the ongoing advice fee was in relation 
to Mr Hs pension. But, giving advice  about a pension, including whether its best to 
drawdown on a SIPP  fund or access other  assets,  includes consideration of the investors 
overall tax position.  I think an adviser should  also bear in mind if thats likely to change in the 
near future. 
Mr H argues that, rather than leave  his SIPP fund intact, he should have been advised to 
maximise his income via withdrawals from his SIPP to use up the balance of his basic  rate 
allowance and leave  other investments intact  which  he might later have been  able to access  
on a tax free basis. 
Where, as here, an investor has several assets  pension  funds,  ISAs  and IVBs  there is 
likely to be more than one way to raise capital or income. Sometimes it might seem that 
things could have  been arranged differently, perhaps for tax reasons. But it wont  be fair to 
judge that with the benefit  of hindsight. 
I think the adviser was entitled to act in accordance  with what Mr H told him and what he 
understood Mr Hs plans to be. It seems Mr H contacted the adviser when  he wanted to 
access additional funds.  I note that in 2014  Mr Hs instructions were that he wanted to pay 
as little tax as possible or preferably no tax. And the adviser came up with a strategy  that 
achieved that. If Mr H had withdrawn money from his SIPP  hed have paid at least  basic rate 
tax on all sums withdrawn. 
The arrangement was to be reviewed in April 2015. And the plan, initially at least, was to 
meet some of the income requirement (which I assume was ongoing) from the SIPP.  I dont 
think any issue about paying emergency  tax  which Mr H would have got back anyway 
even if thered been some delay - justified  a decision not to take money from the SIPP.  
Ref: DRN70578967But Mr H hasnt said that the income requirement couldnt continue  to be met from other  
assets. Or that he incurred any tax charges by doing  that. It may be that he still wanted to 
minimise any tax and so hed have still wanted  to avoid  taking money out of the SIPP which  
would have given  rise to an immediate  tax liability. 
Mr H has also mentioned  that his wifes pension was accessed,  although  it was apparently  
performing better than Mr Hs SIPP fund.  But thats likely to have been  driven  by tax 
considerations  I think she was a basic rate tax payer at most.  
Mr H also says his options should  at least have  been discussed,  rather  than the adviser 
simply saying  the SIPP  fund should  be left alone.  Im not sure exactly  what  was discussed. 
But I agree  that Mr H should have been  made aware of his options so that he could make  an 
informed decision.  And I can see the argument that the adviser should have had an eye on 
the future  and that Mr H would revert to being  a higher rate tax payer when his state pension 
came into payment. So that should  have featured in the discussions too. 
It could have made sense  for Mr H to preserve his ISAs and IVBs so that he could make tax 
free withdrawals later to top up his income  or to meet specific  expenditure when he was a 
higher rate tax payer. And investors are sometimes advised to use up their remaining basic  
rate personal allowance in each tax year. I can see why Mr H is claiming the extra  tax hell 
pay if he makes  those  withdrawals now or in the future. 
But I think theres a difficulty in saying, even if things  should have been explored more  fully 
but werent, that Mr H wouldve definitely accessed  his SIPP  fund. I think  its possible hed 
still have preferred to incur as little tax as possible at the time and was less concerned about 
tax payable on future withdrawals which he may or may not need to make.  I dont think its 
clear the extent to which Mr H would want to access  the SIPP in the future to withdraw other 
than ad hoc amounts to meet specific expenditure. In general terms it would be better for the 
SIPP fund to have  remained  invested and so continue  to benefit from investment growth 
rather than be depleted by withdrawals that Mr H didnt need. 
I also cant be certain that Mr H will ever incur the higher tax charge. He hasnt made  those 
withdrawals and I dont  know what withdrawals, if any, he will make in the future. I dont think 
its fair to say he should get compensation for extra tax he may incur  on withdrawals he 
hasnt made  and might not make. And, as Ive said, hes benefitted  by his fund remaining 
invested. If he dies before age 75, no tax will be payable  on his SIPP fund. All in all I think  
its difficult to say he will definitely suffer a future  financial  loss. 
I dont think Mr H is entitled  to a refund of the advisory fee. Theres  no dispute he wanted  to 
access his tax free cash in 2013. He needed to switch to a new product to do that. I dont 
think the advice  or the product was unsuitable.  
Nor do I think the ongoing advice fees should  be refunded. Its clear that over the years Mr H 
did avail himself of the advisers services. Further I wasnt  able to agree with Mr H that he 
should have been advised differently  or that hes definitely been  financially disadvantaged.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont make  any award  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Ref: DRN70578968Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7057896