K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the way in which Santander  UK Plc treated her in relation to an 
application to switch her mortgage rate. She wants Santander to honour the lower interest 
rate offered  to her, and pay her compensation  of £600.
background
Miss C had a mortgage with Santander,  which was on a fixed  interest  rate due to expire on 
3 January 2019. In October 2018 she applied to switch to a five year fixed rate of 1.94%. A 
mortgage offer was issued, and Miss C accepted the offer. The switch  was due to take effect 
from the expiry of the previous fixed  rate.
On the morning of 3 January 2019 Miss C says that she logged  online to check her account. 
But the account showed that she had been moved to the variable rate rather than the fixed 
rate product  shed applied for. So she again  applied for a transfer online, and was offered a 
five year fixed rate of 1.89% which she accepted.
Santander confirmed  that the five year fixed rate of 1.94%  had been applied  to her account. 
It said that its system had made an error and Miss C shouldnt  have been allowed to apply 
for another  rate. So it paid her £50 as a goodwill gesture. But it didnt agree to honour the 
lower interest rate or pay her further  compensation, as she had agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage offer made in October 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Miss Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said:
Miss C had applied  online  to transfer  her mortgage interest rate on 8 October 2018. 
And Santander responded by email  the same  day. The email made it clear that, once 
Miss C had accepted  the product transfer offer she wouldnt be able to make any 
other changes to the mortgage until the transfer  was complete;
Miss C accepted the offer on 11 October  2018,  agreeing to a rate of 1.94% fixed for 
five years with a completion  date set for 3 January  2019;
Santander emailed  Miss C on 3 January confirming that the product transfer had 
completed. However, Miss C applied to transfer  the mortgage  to a rate of 1.89% that 
same day as she thought  that the original  transfer  didnt complete;
While  he understood  that an error with the system allowed Miss C to proceed with 
the new application he didnt think that changed  the original offer accepted  on 11 
October;
He also didnt think that Santander had acted unfairly by offering lower interest rates  
to new customers in January 2019. So he didnt think that Santander should pay 
Miss C redress  for this;
Santander had acknowledged that the system shouldnt have allowed Miss C to 
apply for another product transfer  in January  2019. He understood that this caused  
Miss C concerns and confusion as it resulted in additional letters  being  sent to her. 
She also had to spend time on the phone to sort the matter out. But Santander had 
paid Miss C £50 as a goodwill gesture and apologised  for the service  she had 
received. Our adjudicator felt that this was reasonable.
Miss C doesnt agree  with our adjudicators conclusions and has asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN74334632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Santander has not acted  unfairly. I appreciate that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Miss C, so Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer sent to Miss C in October 2018. And I can see that 
this says:
You have 14 days in which to fully review all the information provided. Once you have 
provided your Acceptance  of this Conversion offer you will not have the right to change your 
mind and withdraw from the contract.
Miss C accepted the mortgage offer. And so Im satisfied that she is bound by the terms of 
that offer.
I appreciate that Miss C is unhappy that a lower interest rate was offered to new customers  
after she accepted  the mortgage  rate in October  2018. But, as Santander has explained, 
there are a number of factors that it takes  into account when setting interest rates.  Interest 
rates can increase or decrease at any time. And, ultimately, it is a matter  for Santanders 
commercial discretion to decide what rates to offer.
Santander has accepted that its system  shouldnt  have allowed Miss C to apply for another  
product transfer  in January 2019.  And I appreciate  that this caused Miss C some confusion  
and inconvenience,  as she had to spend  time on the phone sorting things out. But 
Santander has apologised for the mistake, and paid Miss C £50 as a goodwill gesture. It has 
also refunded the additional product fee of £999 which was taken in error. Having 
considered the circumstances carefully, I find this to be fair and reasonable. So I dont 
require Santander  to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433463