K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund all the direct debit payments he 
said had been  paid from his account in error.
background
Mr A contacted Barclays several  times  about direct debit payments he had been making to 
one business.  He made four indemnity claims covering different overlapping periods. 
Barclays paid the first two. It then asked Mr A for evidence of when the direct  debit was 
cancelled. And it said that it was not satisfied an error had been made and refused the other  
claims. It accepted that it had lost one of his indemnity  forms and that he had needed to 
make a number of calls about  this. It paid him compensation of £75.
The investigator did not recommend that it do anything further.  She said that:
-Mr A had made his first claim on 24 May 2018 covering payments in the period 3 
April to 8 May 2018. His second  was on 1 June  2018 for an overlapping period of 20 
November 2017 to 8 May 2018.  Barclays noted that Mr A said he hadnt been given 
all the dates and payments  and that these  had been taken for longer  than he 
expected by the business involved.  The payments during this period were  refunded.
-He made  a further claim on 26 June 2018  covering  the period from 5 June  2017  to 3 
May 2018 and a subsequent one on 5 July 2018  for the period from 5 June 2017 to 
27 November 2017. 
-Barclays asked him for evidence  of when he had cancelled the direct debit with the 
business. He did not provide anything to support this. It said it did not think an error 
had been made and did not make any further  refunds.
-Mr A had said he was told by Barclays he could submit multiple claims. But there  was 
no evidence of this. Even  if, as Mr A said, hed didnt have details of all the previous 
payments when he made his claims, it would have been reasonable for him to say at 
the start that hed cancelled his direct  debit in May 2017. It had also been a year 
before hed noticed this had not been  acted on and raised  the issue.
-She thought  that the compensation for the poor service was reasonable.
Mr A did not agree.  He said that the compensation offered does  not cover his calls, branch 
visits and letters. When he first put in a refund  request he was not advised to make his claim 
in one go. He said he had been  told he could do this over two or three calls. He could not 
see how Barclays could justify making  some refunds but not all of the payments. He said he 
had been let down and misinformed. He wanted  £500 in compensation. Hes previously 
mentioned that he had been in contact  with solicitors about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payments made under  the direct  debit scheme  are subject  to a guarantee including  the 
following relevant  term:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct  Debit, by the organisation or your bank or 
building society,  you are entitled  to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from your 
bank or building society.
Ref: DRN78357672Barclays accepted  Mr As first two claims in good  faith. It had no reason to think  that these  
were not genuine  claims. And it gave him refunds. Such a refund does not guarantee that  
Mr A did not owe any money to the business supplying  him with goods and services.  But it 
was made  on the basis that the direct  debit had not been processed  in line with the scheme  
and his instructions.  The investigators noted  that the reason he gave for his second claim 
was that the dates and payments had not been  told to him in advance and that these 
payments were taken  for longer than expected.
I cant fairly determine what Barclays said to Mr A about making multiple  claims.  He says 
that he could not get all the historic information about the direct debits from his mobile  
banking app. But if he was speaking to Barclays it could have told him about  the previous  
payments. And his claim  that he had cancelled his direct debit in May 2017 would not have 
been affected by whether or not he had all the details about payments since  then.
Mr A has claimed a substantial refund of well over £4,000 of payments. Its reasonable to 
think he would have  noticed these payments coming out of his bank account after May 2017 
- especially  as he says he cancelled the direct  debit. I dont see that there is any restriction 
on how Mr A makes  claims and that he couldnt  do them in batches. However, Barclays  
wanted to understand more about why he had made them  in this way and the basis  for his 
claim. I dont  think it was unreasonable for it to want to establish if an error had been made.
Mr A has been in contact  with the business: he said on his indemnity form that it had not 
been helpful and that it had ignored  his requests to cancel the direct debit. But he did not 
provide any evidence to support this. I dont  think Barclays  was fairly able to decide that this 
was an error  by the business rather than a dispute  about what was owed for goods or 
services provided. It declined his claim.
I dont think that the fact it paid part of his claim means it should pay the rest as Mr A says. It 
was not satisfied that there was any error with the direct debit before November 2017. It 
accepts that it lost one of his indemnity forms and it has noted 12 calls from Mr A  some of 
them about  service  issues and his complaint. It accepts that there  was poor service  and has 
paid him £75. I appreciate he wants more but I think that what it has paid is reasonable. 
There is always an element of inconvenience  in bringing a complaint. And I havent found  
that Barclays made an error in deciding on his claims.
So Im afraid  I dont have  a reasonable basis to require Barclays  to do anything  further.  If   
Mr A does not accept  my decision he is free to take legal action as he indicated he might 
subject to any relevant  time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7835767