K822xComplaint
Miss C is unhappy with the service provided  by Nationwide when they blocked her accounts  
and with their handling  of a request to put in place a lasting power of attorney. 
Background 
On 7 August  2018 Miss C had a meeting at a Nationwide  branch. Nationwide  had concerns 
about Miss Cs behaviour  and what she said at the meeting. As a result,  Nationwide raised a 
safeguarding issue.  While  the safeguarding issue was being considered  Nationwide froze  
Miss Cs accounts, meaning  she could  only withdraw money in branch. While her accounts 
were frozen Miss C went in to branch to cash a cheque for £200 when her brother died. She 
says she was taken  in to a room which was locked and asked why she wanted the money. 
Nationwide then gave  her £100 rather than £200,  which she says meant she was unable  to 
attend her brothers funeral or send flowers, causing a family rift. 
The police visited Miss C as a result of Nationwides actions. Miss C says the visit was an 
infringement of her privacy and a waste of resources. Following the visit, the police were 
satisfied, and the block was removed from Miss Cs accounts on 31 August 2018.  
In November 2018 Miss C went in to a Nationwide branch  and asked for a lasting power  of 
attorney to be registered. Nationwide  didnt take this forward as they said they needed  an 
original or certified copy of the form, which Miss C didnt  have.  Miss C was unhappy  about  
this. She said other financial  institutions  didnt request an original or certified copy  and that 
she incurred costs and wasted time in meeting Nationwides  requirements. 
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she could understand that the police 
visit, Nationwides decision to block Miss Cs accounts and difficulties getting money while 
the accounts were  blocked would cause upset. But Nationwide  had a duty of care to Miss C 
and took action because it had concerns. She concluded that Nationwide  acted  reasonably 
in following the Banking Protocol and its own safeguarding procedures. In relation to the 
lasting power of attorney the investigator said shed seen evidence  Nationwide  followed their 
internal process  in requesting an original  copy of the document. 
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. She said she felt she should receive compensation 
for the fact she couldnt access funds meaning  she missed  her brothers funeral. She also 
said shed incurred unnecessary costs in relation  to the lasting power  of attorney, including 
travel costs and solicitors costs in photocopying documents. Miss C also referred  to the 
effect of the police visit and the cost of copying  documents for the police, being locked in a 
meeting room and asked  why she wanted  to withdraw money, and the fact Nationwide  told 
the police  they felt JS and ES were the same person. Miss C felt Nationwide  abused  their 
power in contacting the police. 
As Miss C didnt agree with the investigator  her complaint was been passed  to me to 
consider. In my provisional decision dated 20 March  2020 I said:
I understand it must have  been upsetting for Miss C when her accounts were  blocked and 
the police  visited.  What I need to decide  is whether Nationwide acted reasonably  in raising  a 
safeguarding concern  and in how they treated  Miss C. 
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the police, financial sector 
organisations (like banks  and building societies) and Trading Standards  which has been  in 
Ref: DRN75806192force since  March 2018. Financial businesses commit to look out for unusual behaviour, 
discreetly question  a customer about  a withdrawl  or transaction and their reasons for making 
it, talk to a customer in a quiet area if they need more information  and call the police if the 
answers given or general behaviour of the customer lead them to believe the customer may 
be a victim of fraud. Bank staff are encouraged to contact the police even when theyre not 
sure. 
I consider Nationwide had concerns about  Miss Cs answers and behaviour at the meeting in 
August 2018,  and acted reasonably in acting on these concerns. I fully understand the 
importance of safeguarding and protecting customers  from economic abuse and believe 
Nationwides intention  was always  to protect Miss C and her money.
Miss C says she tried to cash a cheque  for £200 to allow her to buy flowers  and attend  her 
brothers funeral, but that Nationwide only gave her £100. When  Miss C tried to cash  the 
cheque (while her account  was blocked)  she says she was taken  to a room  which  was 
locked and asked  questions about  why she wanted  the money. Nationwide  explained staff 
members need to enter a code to enter a meeting room, but the door isnt locked when it 
closes. Im persuaded  by this explanation and see no reason why Nationwide  staff would 
have locked the door. Under normal circumstances a customer wouldnt be asked why they 
want to cash a cheque. But given the concerns Nationwide had, which  were  still being 
investigated, and the Banking  Protocol outlined above, I think  Nationwide  acted reasonably 
in asking Miss C questions about why she wanted to withdraw funds and in speaking  to her 
alone. 
I turn now to the restriction  applied when Miss C asked for the funds.  Nationwide explained 
that branch staff members have no recollection of Miss C saying she needed the money for 
flowers or a funeral and that the restriction was set by a specialist team. They  go on to say 
that if a request had been made for costs such as these a call would have been made to the 
specialist team to see if it could be authorised,  but theres no record of such a call.
Nationwide dont seem  to have records of the meeting with Miss C and staff dont recollect it. 
But they refer to processes in place and restrictions  imposed by a specialist team. My role 
though is not to decide if Nationwide followed their process, but to decide if they treated 
Miss C fairly in the circumstances. 
It seems  to me that an unintended  consequence  of Nationwide following  procedures is that 
Miss C has been treated  unfairly in that she hasnt been given reasonable access to her own 
money. I would expect Miss C to be asked questions  as she was - but there  to be some  
flexibility in Nationwides  approach taking in to account the responses.  But it appears a set 
limit has been adhered  to. Im satisfied Nationwides decision to restrict the amount Miss C 
could withdraw has caused her unnecessary  stress and inconvenience,  so Im provisionally 
asking Nationwide  to pay Miss C £200  to reflect this. 
While Nationwide looked in to concerns it blocked Miss Cs accounts (sole and joint).  
Although I can appreciate  how frustrating this was for Miss C I dont think  Nationwide acted 
unreasonably in doing so. 
Miss C has raised issues about the actions of the police, including talking to people  in the 
village about her. Nationwide has no control over what action the police chose to take, so I 
cant hold them responsible. Also, given that I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong in 
contacting the police,  Im not asking  them  to pay the cost of copying documents  requested 
as part of the police enquiry. 
Ref: DRN75806193I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  Nationwide thought JS and ES are the same  person. 
In any event Im not persuaded  this would have a significant impact on Miss C, whose 
complaint Im considering, so Im not making an award.
I turn now to Miss Cs complaint about  Nationwides handling of the lasting power of attorney 
request. Ive seen internal guidance which says Nationwide need original or certified copies  
of the lasting power of attorney form. Theyve followed their own procedure in asking  for 
original or certified copies,  and treated Miss C in the same way as any other customer. In 
these circumstances  I dont think Nationwide has done anything  wrong.  Its up to other 
businesses what they choose to accept,  and the fact other businesses didnt require 
originals or certified copies doesnt mean Nationwide should do the same.  It follows  Im not 
asking Nationwide  to compensate Miss C or pay any copying  charges.  
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. I have reached  the same  decision as Ive set out above, 
and for the same  reasons.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  should pay Miss C £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580619