K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains as a director of S, a limited company, that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his 
accounts because  he didnt use internet banking to provide additional  information  about his 
business.
background
S was a business  customer  of HSBC for several  years. When Mr F opened Ss accounts, he 
registered for internet banking.
At the end of 2018 HSBC  wrote to Mr F to explain it was carrying  out a safeguard initiative to 
help prevent fraud and financial crime. As part of that review,  it wanted to update the details 
they had about S. The letter asked Mr F to log in to internet banking  and complete  an online 
form. HSBC advised  Mr F he needed  to do this within 84 days  or they may have to close  Ss 
accounts. The letter also provided details of a helpline which customers could call. 
Mr F didnt  respond and didnt complete the online form. 84 days later HSBC wrote to Mr F 
and told him theyd be closing Ss accounts  in 70 days. The letter  asked Mr F to call them  if 
hed like to keep Ss accounts  open and gave a helpline for completing the online form. 
Mr F then called HSBC and ended up making a complaint. Mr F told HSBC  he didnt want to 
fill in the online form because he isnt comfortable  using  a computer. HSBC pointed  out that 
S was registered for internet banking and Mr F was listed  as the primary user.  Mr F told 
them he didnt use his internet banking, he explained his colleague used it instead. Mr F also 
said he didnt have  an online log-in device. He was offered a new one but he refused. 
Mr F repeatedly told HSBC he didnt want to use internet banking and asked why he had to. 
Mr F said he didnt  feel comfortable using a computer and mentioned digital discrimination. 
Mr F offered to give the information  in several  other ways,  for example, by email. Mr F was 
also told that if S wasnt registered  for internet banking, HSBC  could email the form. 
But HSBC  said because  the form was already on Ss internet banking, the information had to 
be provided in this way. HSBC then wrote to Mr F confirming they were unable  to let him 
provide the information in another way. 
Mr F remained unhappy so he brought Ss complaint to us the same  day. Around  this time 
Mr F asked  if HSBC  would delay the closure of Ss bank accounts.  Mr F explained he was 
going abroad for over six weeks when the accounts  were due to close.  But HSBC decided  to 
close Ss bank accounts as planned, five months after they first wrote to him. So, Mr F 
arranged for Ss funds  to be switched to a different bank before then. Mr F later complained  
to us that HSBC  didnt  agree an extension  and didnt explain why. Mr F told us this had a big 
impact on S and he felt it was unreasonable and reckless. 
HSBC told our investigator that they can make decisions  on how they ask for information. 
They said they didnt  understand  Mr Fs reluctance  given S was registered for internet 
banking and Mr F was the primary user. They said they didnt think Mr F was unable  to give 
information in the way theyd ask. HSBC told us it was Mr Fs decision not to complete the 
form and whilst he was able to make this choice, it didnt fit with the way they wanted to 
work. Our investigator asked Mr F if he could provide  a specific  reason why he was unable 
to complete the information online.  Mr F didnt tell us anything more  than hed told HSBC. 
Ref: DRN71419972Later in the investigation Mr F also complained to us that HSBC hadnt covered all his 
complaint points in their response letter. He said they then ignored a letter  and some calls he 
made about this.
Our investigator found that Mr F was able to comply with HSBCs request and that because 
he didnt, it was reasonable that HSBC closed Ss accounts. Mr F didnt agree with this, he 
raised a number of concerns about  our investigators opinion  and felt his complaint hadnt  
been properly  understood. So, its been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered Mr Fs main complaint which is that the bank only allowed him to provide 
information through his internet banking.
HSBC stated that as a business they can make decisions on how they ask for information. 
As Mr F pointed out, there were clearly  other  ways  he could have  given them this 
information. And I can see why he might  think its reasonable  for him to just use an 
alternative. But its not unreasonable for a business to decide  they want to limit these 
options. This could  be sensible for any number of reasons, for example, if all the information 
comes in online it may make it quicker and easier  for HSBC to process. 
So, in these particular  circumstances,  I dont think the fact HSBC restricted  customers 
options was unfair. But I can see that this might have become unfair if Mr Fs particular 
circumstances meant  there  was a good  reason why he couldnt  provide information online. 
For example, had S not been registered  for internet banking he wouldnt have been able to 
provide the information in this way. As HSBC told Mr F, they were  willing  to make different 
arrangements for such customers. But I wouldnt expect HSBC  to depart from their normal 
processes without good reason.
So, Ive then considered if there was a good reason why Mr F was unable  to provide 
information online. 
HSBC told us Mr F hadnt given them a reason outside of his control as to why he couldnt 
use internet banking. Ive looked at what Mr F told HSBC, including  listening to the complaint 
calls he made. I can hear Mr F is very upset and frustrated by this issue. But I dont  think  
Mr F gave  a reason about why his particular  circumstances  meant  he couldnt provide the 
information online. Whilst Mr F has said hes unfamiliar with internet banking and has not 
been using it, I dont think this explains why he cant use it. Mr F is clearly  able to use some  
online services even  if hes not comfortable with computers because he suggested HSBC 
email him. I also noted that HSBC offered internet banking support through  their helpline. 
Although Mr F repeatedly mentioned digital discrimination, he didnt explain why he would  
need reasonable adjustments.  
Our investigator asked  Mr F if there  was a specific reason why he was unable to complete 
the information online. But Mr F gave us no additional reasons. So, I cant see that Mr F has 
explained why his particular circumstances meant he couldnt submit this information online. 
Without this information, I cant say that HSBC should have departed from their normal  
process and so I dont  think  theyve  acted unfairly here. 
Ref: DRN71419973Given this, I think it was reasonable  that HSBC decided to close Ss accounts.  HSBC were 
asking for this information to comply with legislation.  Failure to do so could have had serious  
consequences for them. So, its not unfair for HSBC to decide to no longer work with S when 
theyve given Mr F the opportunity to give the information. 
Ive then considered  if Mr F should  have been  granted a two-week  extension  to Ss account 
closures. I appreciate  that moving  accounts can have a big impact  on a business.  But I 
noted that HSBC  first wrote to Mr F five months  before  they closed Ss accounts, warning 
him this might  happen if he didnt complete the online form. So, Mr F knew this was a 
possibility for quite some time. HSBC then gave Mr F a further 70 days  before the accounts 
closure. I think this is more than enough  notice even taking into consideration Mr Fs long 
trip. When reaching this view, I also considered  the possible consequences for HSBC in not 
complying with the legislation and noted  Mr F did manage to arrange the switch before  Ss 
accounts were closed. Ive noted Mr F would like to know  why this extension  was refused - 
its clear from HSBCs actions they didnt think an extension was reasonable in these 
circumstances. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  this is unfair.
Ive also thought about the fact Mr F said HSBC  didnt explain why they wanted  the 
information to be given online.  I recognise  that Mr F has found this frustrating, particularly 
given he didnt agree  with their approach. But HSBC have  explained that this was their 
process for customers registered  for internet banking. I realise this doesnt  provide the 
reasons behind why this particular process was agreed. I wouldnt necessarily expect  a bank 
to always provide this level of detail for their decisions, as long as Im satisfied they didnt act 
unfairly. As I dont think they acted unfairly,  I dont think HSBC have done  anything  wrong. 
Finally, Ive noted Mr F has raised  some concerns about HSBCs response  to his complaint. 
But by this time, we were  looking into the matter and so I wouldnt expect HSBC to comment  
any further. Im also aware  Mr F raised  concerns about our investigators opinion.  So, I have 
looked at the case  as a whole when reaching  this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141997