K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that goods  and services she bought with credit provided  by Marks & 
Spencer Financial  Services  Plc (MSFS) were misrepresented and of unsatisfactory  quality. 
She asked  MSFS to provide a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
(CCA) and she is unhappy with the response. 
Mrs F is represented  by a claims management  company but Ill refer (generally) to anything  
thats said on her behalf as if Mrs F had said it herself, to keep  things simple.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 August 2020. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms 
part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties received by 12 
September 2020. 
Mrs Fs representatives  asked for some  additional  time to respond and I allowed more than a 
month for that. The time set for responses has now passed. MSFS accepts my provisional 
conclusions but Mrs F does not. Her representatives provided comments  over several emails 
so Ive summarised the relevant points  below:-
Mrs F purchased a kitchen from W because she wanted one point of contact, she 
understood the work would be undertaken by W only - because of statements made 
at the point of purchase in store and Ws misleading  advertising  but W blamed sub-
contractors when  there were issues with the kitchen;  
the Consumer  Protection from Unfair  Trading Regulations 2008 (the CPRs) (Chapter 
7, Regulations  5 and 6 in particular) are relevant  here, Mrs F is unhappy that I didnt 
accept audio and video recordings along  with other evidence from different stores  
(amongst other  things), which  shows she was clearly  misled, I am biased towards 
MSFS; and 
Mrs F paid W, not the fitters, the kitchen  still hasnt been fixed, W is responsible  for 
that meaning she has a valid complaint against MSFS under Section 75 for breach of 
contract and misrepresentation that should  be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs F, I am not persuaded that there are sufficient fair or reasonable grounds to 
depart from my provisional conclusions.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Im looking  at Mrs Fs complaint about  MSFS. She 
brings that complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  under section 75 of the CCA. 
And, in order to uphold  her complaint,  I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
Ive set out already why Im not persuaded its right to attach much (if any) weight to the 
recordings and surveys  that the CMC supplied. I have considered  the CPRs as well. And I 
Ref: DRN71318562dont think these take matters much  further  - in these  particular  circumstances. For the 
reasons Ive given,  I am not persuaded that theres  been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation here. And Im unable to reasonably require  MSFS to provide a refund or 
do anything further.  
I realise this is not the outcome that Mrs F wanted. She is not obliged  to accept what  Ive 
said, in which case it remains open  to her to pursue the matter through  the courts or by any 
alternative means available.  
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71318563copy provisional decision
background
Mrs F ordered a new kitchen  from a third party supplier  (that Ill call W) in August 2016. She wanted 
one organisation to take care of everything including design,  supply, delivery  and installation.  She 
says W assured her that it could do this but then used sub-contractors to carry out the installation. 
Mrs F says she would have gone elsewhere if she had known that would happen. Shes  also unhappy  
with the quality of the work and goods provided. She paid for the kitchen using a credit card from 
MSFS and she wants MSFS to provide a full refund of over £26,000 plus interest.  
MSFS doesnt think there was a misrepresentation or breach  of contract.  It says paperwork supplied 
at the time stated that installers  would be appointed by W and this didnt mean  they would be 
employees. It is satisfied  that W rectified some issues and offered  to inspect the kitchen and put any 
further defects  right. MSFS considers it was open to Mrs F to get her own independent opinion  if she 
disagreed with W and offered to look at the matter again if she did so. MSFS doesnt think it should 
have to do anything  further. 
Our investigator is satisfied  the relevant paperwork says approved subcontractors would be used and 
W offered to go back  and fix any issues. She thinks this is a reasonable resolution  to Mrs Fs 
complaint and doesnt recommend  MSFS should  have  to do more.  
Mrs F doesnt think this is fair. She says further quality issues have arisen and W refused to inspect 
and rectify faults. She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
 
my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint  on 7 July 2019. Ive set out my provisional  
findings below. In summary,  I said:-
I can see that Mrs F is disappointed with this kitchen and the service she got from W. She paid for the 
kitchen using  her MSFS credit card. And she brings  this complaint about  MSFS to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service under  section 75 of the CCA  - which makes lenders equally liable with suppliers  
in certain circumstances. I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. When considering whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take taking relevant  
law into account, among other things. I should make it clear however that its not my role to apply the 
law - only a court can do that. Instead, Im looking  here at whether MSFS has taken  appropriate steps 
in response to Mrs Fs complaint. 
Section 75 says If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation  to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier  in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have  a like claim against the
creditor, who,  with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable  to the debtor.
A debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement (for the purpose of this matter)  is defined under section 12 (c) of 
the CCA as An un-restricted  use credit  agreement  which is made  by the creditor under pre-existing  
arrangements between  himself and a person (the supplier) other than the debtor in the knowledge  
that the credit is to be used to finance a transaction between  the debtor and supplier 
Im satisfied Mrs F is the debtor and MSFS is the creditor.  But, the only party named on the 
agreement with W, the supplier, is Mrs Fs husband - Mr F. Ive got to consider whether there is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in this situation.  I understand Mrs F was present when the 
kitchen was ordered and it was installed in the house  she shares with Mr F. As such, Im satisfied that 
the goods  and services Mrs F paid for with her MSFS card were  purchased for her benefit - as well as 
Mr Fs. I think it is reasonable to take section 75 into account, in these  particular circumstances. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
misrepresentation
Ref: DRN71318564For me to uphold this part of Mrs Fs complaint I must be satisfied that W said something untrue that 
induced Mrs F to buy the kitchen. Mrs F has explained that they were keen to avoid a situation where 
they had to deal with multiple parties and they told W they wanted one company that could take care 
of the complete project - from design through to installation. Mrs F says the salesperson  said W could 
handle the whole installation  including the electrical and plumbing"  and went on to assure them  that 
W had "allocated  our best fitter". Mrs F considers  this was untrue - because W used  sub-contractors. 
She says W should have said our best subcontracted fitter  - and she wouldnt have agreed to the 
purchase if shed known subcontractors would be used. 
I cant  be certain what was said exactly when Mrs F and her husband  met with W to order this kitchen. 
And I think its reasonable  to consider  anything that was said in context, in this sort of situation. But, 
even if I were to accept  that the salesperson made the statements above,  I am not persuaded  this 
amounts to misrepresentation in these circumstances  and Ill explain why. I dont think its unusual for 
kitchen retailers  like W to sub-contract work to specialist tradespeople. And I consider the paperwork 
Mrs F and her husband  received at the time made  it reasonably clear  that subcontractors would  be 
used to install  this kitchen. Amongst other things  the documents say:-
Installer means the contractor approved and appointed by W to carry  out the Installation Works
Ws Approved Installation  Team means the panel of Installers approved  by W to carry out the 
Installation Works/Specialist works and 
approved sub contractors  hold appropriate registrations and certification to carry  out the installation 
works.
I realise Mrs F may well say she didnt read this when the order was placed  and she relied  instead on 
what the salesperson  said. But, this was a relatively large  purchase. I dont think its unreasonable  to 
expect a consumer to check  the main points in the relevant paperwork.  And, if the use of 
subcontractors was a key concern to Mrs F and her husband, Id expect them to have checked that in 
particular. 
As I understand it, Mrs F and her husband wanted  one organisation  to undertake the whole project - 
because they didnt want to have to deal with several different trades.  By saying that W would  
handle everything,  I think  the salesperson probably  meant W would arrange  for plumbing, electrical  
and other  installation work to be done  as well as supplying the kitchen.  And Im satisfied thats what  
happened here. 
I appreciate Mrs F feels the salesperson should have been specific about the fact that subcontractors 
would be used. In recent correspondence, the CMC says Mr F asked W directly  if it used 
subcontractors and the answer was we do it all. I find it a bit surprising that this particular 
recollection wasnt mentioned earlier - in light of the detail set out in the initial complaint to MSFS in 
April 2017 especially. On balance, I think its probably inaccurate  - given the passage  of time. And I 
am not persuaded its likely the salesperson  stated that this work  would be done by direct employees  
of W only.
I am satisfied  the salesperson was under  no obligation  to say that subcontractors would  be used - and 
I wouldnt expect her to do so, in this situation. The CMC  says Ws website doesnt make it clear that 
subcontractors are used either - and the installation  team  wore clothes with Ws logo,  which 
misrepresented things  further.  I dont think  its surprising  that the installers wore  branded clothing - 
given they were  engaged by W to do this work. And I cant see how this could  reasonably have 
affected Mrs Fs decision  to make the purchase. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest  Mrs F checked the website before the kitchen was ordered. So, its 
difficult to see how information on there could have misled  and/or induced  her to buy the kitchen.  I do 
not, in any event,  find the information referred to by the CMC  to be misleading. 
Ref: DRN71318565I appreciate Mrs F is unhappy with the goods and services - but I dont think  thats down to the 
employment status  of the individuals who carried  out the installation work. I doubt Mrs F and her 
husband would have had a significantly different  experience if the installers were  employed directly  by 
W. Taking everything  Ive seen into account, I am not persuaded that theres been a 
misrepresentation and Im not minded to uphold this complaint on those  grounds. 
breach of contract 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods and services like the ones Mrs F paid for should be of 
satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. Mrs F initially said the installation is of unsatisfactory quality 
because kitchen  units  have  edging strips missing and are not finished to the floor; they didnt receive  
an electrical certificate; and they were  charged £90 for additional work.
It looks as if the electrical certificate has now been supplied and the £90 was refunded, so I dont  
need to consider those two matters any further.  But, Mrs F says other quality issues have begun to 
appear. She reported the dishwasher  door is fouling the adjacent cabinet, theres damage to cabinet 
doors, and a kickboard was also stained by leakage  from the dishwasher. After our investigator 
provided her view, Mrs F told us that wooden  worktops have separated and split at the ends.  
Mrs F has supplied several photographs which I have considered carefully. I think the fouling looks 
similar to the sort of marks often found down the side of a dishwasher thats used regularly. I cant 
safely say this is a defect  on the evidence  I have. I accept  there seems to be some damage to 
worktops and I appreciate Mrs F feels  this must be due to a manufacturing  defect. But, W says it is 
more likely  the worktops have not been maintained properly. Theres contradictory evidence from Mrs 
F about maintenance.  She told us that they were never told the worktops  had to be oiled  (in April 
2019). But, Mr F said the worktops  were oiled  regularly  in an email a few months before (dated 26 
February 2019). 
This kitchen was installed  nearly three years ago and I cant be certain about  whats happened since.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs F but, based on the evidence  I have at the moment, I cant safely find it is 
of unsatisfactory quality.  I understand  Mrs F feels theyve been left with quality issues and the 
problem they wanted  to avoid at the outset   who is responsible for those - because W used 
subcontractors. But, I can see W responded and sorted out the problem with the certificate when that 
was raised. And Im satisfied W also offered to inspect the kitchen and put right any defects. 
Ive seen it suggested that this offer may have  been  withdrawn, but MSFS  says Mrs F wouldnt allow 
W to inspect. As far as I know,  the offer remains open. W is entitled to have the chance to rectify  
faults under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. And I think its offer to inspect and fix any faults found 
sounds fair here.  
In April 2019  Mrs F told us she might  appoint an expert to inspect the kitchen and provide a report. I 
think that probably would have been  helpful.  I appreciate Mr F may be concerned about  the cost of 
such an inspection  but thats likely to be recoverable if faults are found.
As things currently stand,  for the reasons Ive given,  I dont have enough evidence to reasonably  
conclude that theres been a breach of contract and/or a misrepresentation here MSFS  says it will 
look at Mrs Fs claim again  if an independent report is provided and theres  evidence  of fault. I think 
that sounds reasonable. And, if Mrs F is unhappy with the response she gets from MSFS then, she 
may be able to bring another complaint to this service.  For the reasons Ive given, I am not currently 
persuaded that MSFS has treated Mrs F unfairly  overall  and I am not minded to uphold this complaint. 
I invited the parties to consider my provisional  conclusions and let me have  any further information 
and comments by 11 August  2019.  I said I would look at all of the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision.  
the parties responses
Ref: DRN71318566MSFS hasnt  objected  to my provisional conclusions but Mrs F is unhappy with my provisional  
findings. The CMC supplied additional evidence and made detailed  comments  which Ive summarised 
below:-
the fact the paperwork  says installers  would be appointed doesn't  prove  they would be sub-
contractors;
all of the evidence from the relevant time - including Ws website, sales and marketing 
materials and sale terms and conditions  - refers to we, our and us, theres  no mention  of 
sub-contractors and nothing would lead anyone  to conclude that sub-contractors  would be 
used; 
the word sub-contractor  appears  only twice  in the 10 page sale contract  yet the words  "our, 
us, we've, we, we'd and we'll" appear over 28 times  suggesting this is the "norm" not the 
exception and that was confirmed to Mrs F by the salesperson who said W would  "do it all" 
when Mrs F stated  that she didnt want  to use a company that sub-contracted work to others;
Mrs F checked and was shown Ws website before placing the order (as detailed  in the 
second complaint letter to MSFS  sent in May 2017) which proves there was 
misrepresentation; 
its pedantic to suggest that Ws promise  to "do it all" was not mentioned previously as this 
was highlighted in the first complaint letter to MSFS in May 2017 and the first complaint  letter 
to W in January 2017 - albeit by saying the retailer "can handle  the whole installation 
including the electrical and plumbing", which  means the same  thing when taken  in context; 
the CMC  carried out its own survey  of over 50 people and the responses  show the average 
consumer reasonably  assumes  that subcontractors will not be used where it is not stated in 
writing that subcontractors will be used;
W is aware  that UK consumers dont like the use of subcontractors so it doesnt tell customers  
they are used;
theres an inherent problem with Ws sales and marketing process - the CMC spoke  to sales 
people at several  of Ws branches,  they all misrepresented the nature of the installation 
workforce which shows  that W routinely  misrepresents the position. This mis-information 
could impact  on any customers  purchasing decision and it would have changed Mrs F's mind 
about placing her order if she had not been misled; 
by considering what  is most likely to have happened  I have given a personal opinion and 
taken the side of W and MSFS without good reason - based upon nothing written or factual, 
just a gut feeling or assumption;  and
Mrs F has been let down  badly, she paid a lot of money for a kitchen,  that she was wrongly 
told would be fitted by W, which has not lasted as long as a reasonable consumer would 
expect and is unfit for purpose.  
my provisional  findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I am sorry to disappoint Mrs F but, having done so, I remain  of 
the view that it would not be fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.  
I want  to assure Mrs F that I have considered  everything that has been sent and said on her behalf 
very carefully.  If I dont  address every  single point thats been  raised, this is because  Ive 
concentrated on what I think  is relevant  and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall.
This service provides  informal dispute resolution for individual disputes between financial businesses  
and their customers. We are impartial and we investigate complaints and reach our conclusions 
(without interference from anyone else) on the civil standard of the balance  of probabilities. This 
means, where facts are in dispute and evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory - as 
some of it is here - I make my decision based on what I think is most  likely to have happened, in light 
of the available  evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ref: DRN71318567As Ive explained already,  for me to be satisfied there was a misrepresentation  in this case, I would 
have to be persuaded that W told Mrs F something that was not true which induced her to place this 
order and Mrs F suffered loss as a result. Amongst other things, the CMC  says Mrs F was misled 
because the salesperson  was asked  the direct  question do you use subcontractors  at the point of 
purchase and the answer was no. 
I think  this exchange goes to the very crux of the misrepresentation thats alleged so (as I explained in 
my provisional  decision) I would have expected it to have been  mentioned much sooner, in this 
situation. The CMC says it was mentioned earlier and referred me to complaint letters sent to W and 
MSFS in 2017. Ive checked  this correspondence and Im not persuaded  it references the exchange in 
question. To be clear, I dont think the reference in the correspondence in question  to the salesperson 
saying W would handle  the whole installation  amounts to the same thing as a salesperson saying no 
if asked  directly whether  subcontractors would  be used.       
The CMC sent us recordings  of several telephone calls and visits  that CMC staff members made to a 
number of Ws branches. The CMC  says these show that W routinely misleads customers about  its 
use of sub-contractors as part of Ws wider  selling  practice. The CMC also produced  a survey it 
undertook of about 50 consumers where  the consumers  were asked about  their expectations in 
relation to kitchen fitting. The CMC  says the results show most  consumers would  not expect  
subcontractors to be used - unless it said so in writing. 
Its clear the CMC went to some trouble to provide this information but I think it is of very limited value 
in this situation.  I am not persuaded that the various  recordings provided  take matters much further. 
Ive seen nothing to show  that W requires its salespeople to follow a script  - or otherwise  avoid the 
mention of subcontractors. And I think the recordings provided suggest, in any event,  that the 
salespeople the CMC  spoke to did not follow a script  because each salesperson responded  
differently to the questions. I also think its unlikely  that W instructs its sales force  not to mention  
subcontractors  given at least one of the salespeople  the CMC contacted  made it very clear that 
subcontractors are used. 
I know very little about  the nature of the survey  undertaken by the CMC - I cant  see if it was 
randomised, for example.  I am unable  to check whether the results are unbiased. And I dont think it 
would be appropriate  to give a survey like this any weight,  in these  circumstances. Im not persuaded, 
in any event, that the survey subject is relevant. The CMC says it surveyed consumers views on what 
information should be provided about the use of subcontractors to fit a kitchen when its not stated in 
writing that subcontractors would  be used.  For the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied  that 
the written installation  terms and conditions  here do say that installers other than direct employees 
might be used. And I remain of the view,  on balance, this was not misrepresented.  
Aside from my concerns  about  the recordings and surveys set out above,  I should  make it clear  that 
my role here is to look at the individual circumstances  of Mrs Fs complaint in order to decide  if MSFS  
did anything wrong - and, if so, what MSFS should do to put things right. If the CMC  and Mrs F have 
concerns about Ws marketing and sales practice generally it is open to them to raise  these with any 
relevant trade body or trading standards organisation. The Financial  Ombudsman Service is not a 
regulator however and its not within my remit to tell any financial business (or retailer) how to operate  
on a day to day basis.
I have given some thought about  what the CMC  says in relation to the use of the word  subcontractor 
in the paperwork Mrs F received at the relevant  time. In the ten or so pages the CMC refers  to, there 
is one page thats headed sale  terms. I accept  this page doesnt mention subcontractors and the 
words we etc is used numerous times. But Im satisfied this is because  the page in question sets out 
the terms and conditions relevant to the sale and supply  of goods by W. 
The terms  and conditions in respect of the installation can be found  elsewhere  in the relevant  
paperwork, headed installation terms and conditions. These provide (insofar as its relevant)  that 
goods are products  supplied by W to be installed  by the installer  and installer  means  the 
contractor approved and appointed by W. Just below  that theres also a reference to a panel  of 
Ref: DRN71318568installers. I find it difficult to see why the installation terms would make the distinction between W 
supplying the goods and appointing an installer  if W was both supplier and installer. Its hard to see 
why W would need a panel of installers  if it carried out that work itself. Overall  I think  the paperwork 
makes it reasonably clear  that W might  appoint third parties to install  the goods it sold and supplied.  
And I am not persuaded that Mrs F should reasonably have believed that W did not use 
subcontractors. 
I remain of the view there are no fair and reasonable  grounds to find there was a misrepresentation 
here. For the reasons  Ive set out already, Im not satisfied that theres been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract. I dont  think MSFS has acted unreasonably or treated Mrs F unfairly.  And I see no 
reasonable grounds  to uphold this complaint. 
I now invite  the parties to consider what Ive said and let me have any further submissions  by the date 
below. After  that date Ill look at all of the information and evidence available and make my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I may receive from the parties  by 11 September  2020, my 
provisional decision  is I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN7131856