K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms F say HSBC  UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them two payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
This complaint is about two mortgage PPI policies. The first was taken out in 1996, when 
Mr and Ms F applied for their mortgage,  they say at a meeting with HSBC. This policy cost 
£14.86 per month and covered their mortgage repayments of £250 per month. Only Mr F 
was covered under the policy, for accident, sickness  and unemployment.  
The second  policy  was taken out in 1998, when Mr and Ms F took out a further advance.  
Again, it covered Mr F only. They paid £5.93 extra per month  for this policy, for £100 per 
month extra mortgage repayment cover. This policy was free for the first six months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms F disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  or 
incomplete, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
HSBC sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
1996 policy
Mr and Ms F said they were  told they had to take PPI to get the mortgage.  I cant  know 
what was said at the meeting with the bank. HSBC no longer  has copies of 
Mr and Ms Fs paperwork from the time of the sale. Based on the limited information  now 
available, I dont have  enough information to fairly  conclude that Mr and Ms F werent 
given enough  clear information  to show that PPI was an optional  extra  before they took it 
out. So, I cant fairly uphold their complaint  on this ground.
1998 policy
HSBC has sent in the records  of Mr and Ms Fs personal financial planning meeting and 
the letter they were  sent recommending PPI.  Ive  thought carefully about Mr and Ms Fs 
comments, but on balance I think its most likely HSBC  made  it clear  the PPI was 
optional and they chose to take it out. I can understand they might not remember  this, 
given how long ago it was. 
suitability
Ref: DRN75947482HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms F so it had to check it was right for them  as 
well as giving them enough clear  information  so that they could decide for themselves if 
they wanted to buy it. I cant see that PPI was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.  Their circumstances were largely the same when 
both policies were  sold to them. Although the policy  only covered Mr F, Ive taken into 
account Ms Fs circumstances too as these were  joint mortgages.
The policies appeared suitable  because:
oMr F was eligible  to take out each policy. Ms F wasnt working, so I can see why 
the cover  was taken  out in Mr Fs name only;
oMr F said he wouldnt have got any sick pay through  work and said they didnt 
have any other  resources to make  their repayments  from. So, I think the PPI 
couldve been useful  to them in their circumstances, to protect their home;
oMr and Ms F had critical illness cover, but this was a different type of insurance, 
so it didnt provide  them with duplicate  protection; and
oMr F didnt appear to be affected  by any of the main limitations or exclusions in 
the policy. As he couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered I dont 
think they wouldve  made a different decision and not taken PPI if give more or 
better information about these things.
clear information
Its possible HSBC didnt  give Mr and Ms F all the information it shouldve  before they made 
their decision  to buy the policies. I dont know when  they were told about the cost of the 
policies. But, the policies appeared affordable and I think they wouldve understood they had 
to pay something for the PPI. When the 1998 policy was taken out, I think  they wouldve 
known their monthly premium was likely  to change to cover the overall increase in their 
mortgage repayment. The monthly premium  couldve been stopped at any time without them 
losing out financially.  So, I cant see that they wouldve made  a different decision and not 
taken PPI with clearer  information.
Overall, I dont  think theyve lost out because of any of the problems with the sales.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7594748