K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains a Miss S wrongly advised him to move his pension  from an occupational 
scheme to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP) to invest £40,500 in Harlequin  property. 
Miss S was a registered individual of Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd so Mr C 
believes its responsible.
background
Mr C says a friend and neighbour whod invested in Harlequin suggested he did too and 
introduced him to someone who worked  at an unregulated business. He says that person 
suggested he invest in Harlequin using a SIPP but told him he should get IFA advice if he 
was interested.
Mr C was put in touch with Miss S and the SIPP was set up. £67,876.80 was transferred into 
it from Mr Cs previous  pension  an occupational pension  scheme   on 5 January 2010. 
And £40,500 was paid to Harlequin  on 12 January 2010. Unfortunately  the property was 
never built.
Mr C complained to Positive  Solutions  but Positive Solutions didnt uphold  his complaint. He 
therefore came to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2019.  A copy  of that is attached and forms 
part of this decision. In summary, I said I was planning to decide Miss S did provide advice 
Positive Solutions is responsible for and the complaint  should  be upheld  against it.
Mr Cs representative said he agrees with my provisional decision. Positive Solutions 
doesnt. Ive read and considered its response in full. In summary it said:
My provisional conclusions on jurisdiction are wrong as a matter of law and some  of 
my considerations arent relevant.
Miss S didnt give Mr C any advice.
It had no knowledge  of Miss Ss actions and she acted without its authority.
It didnt make any representations to Mr C that would have given Miss S apparent 
authority. The alleged  representations I set out in my provisional decision didnt 
meet the necessary criteria.
Because it didnt  make any representations  of authority, there  isnt any need  to 
consider its intention or whether Mr C relied on the representations. But Mr C didnt 
rely on the role of Positive Solutions in any event. He clearly  only wanted an 
introduction to the SIPP  operator.
It is not the case that there is a broad test of justice as a matter  of law. But in any 
event, none of the points Ive made to explain why I believe its fair to hold 
Positive Solutions responsible are rational in the circumstances.
In relation to my provisional finding that Positive  Solutions is vicariously liable  for 
Miss Ss dealings with Mr C, the case of Cox v Ministry  of Justice  isnt relevant in the 
circumstances here.  And even if it were, the second part of the test set out in that 
Ref: DRN79699072case (that the commission of the wrongful  act [must  be] a risk created by the 
[principal] by assigning those activities to the individual in question ) wasnt met 
because Miss Ss position with it wasnt analogous to that of an employee.
In the circumstances here, section 150 the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 
(FSMA) doesnt give a route to liability.
The issue of jurisdiction should  be decided before the merits of the complaint  are 
addressed.
Mr C would still have made the investments even if Miss S had acted differently. He 
was committed to Harlequin and would have  found  a way to make the investments so 
would have incurred  the same losses.
My proposed compensation isnt appropriate.
The complaint  would  be more appropriately dealt with by the court  as its impossible 
to make fair findings on the issue of reliance  without cross examination and 
disclosure.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments and Ive considered the 
responses to my provisional  decision. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions  
as in my provisional decision:
Miss S advised Mr C in relation to the SIPP and made arrangements  in relation to the 
SIPP and the Harlequin investment. Mr Cs complaint is therefore about  acts or 
omissions in relation  to regulated activities.
Positive Solutions made representations to Mr C that Miss S had the necessary 
authority. And Mr C relied on those representations.  Positive  Solutions  therefore 
gave her apparent  authority.
Positive Solutions is also vicariously liable for Miss Ss actions here. Miss S was an 
approved person  for it under the regulatory  regime for the purpose of performing 
customer-facing functions as part of Positive  Solutions carrying  on its regulated  
business. The permitted  functions included advising on, and arranging, investments  
and setting up SIPPs for its customers as well as advising  on pension transfers. She 
was performing those  functions as an integral part of Positive Solutions business  
activities and there  was a sufficient  connection  for vicarious liability  to arise.
Section 150 FSMA is an alternative  route  by which Positive Solutions is responsible 
for the acts complained of.
This service therefore has jurisdiction  to consider Mr Cs complaint against  
Positive Solutions.
The advice Miss S gave Mr C wasnt suitable and amounted  to a negligent 
misstatement.
Ref: DRN79699073Had Miss S given suitable  advice, Mr C wouldnt have transferred his pension and 
made the Harlequin investment in question here.
Mr C suffered a loss as a result of transferring his pension  and making  the Harlequin 
investment, so the fair and reasonable outcome  is for Positive Solutions to 
compensate him for that loss.
My reasons  for reaching those conclusions remain as set out in my provisional findings of 
7 November 2019  which Ive attached  supplemented by the additional points Ive made 
below addressing Positive Solutions  response.
apparent or ostensible authority
Positive Solutions agreed with the two questions Id asked here, namely:
Did it represent to Mr C that Miss S had its authority to act on its behalf  in terms of 
the activities hes complaining about?
Did Mr C rely on that representation when he entered  into the transactions  hes now 
complaining about?
But it says I factored in irrelevant considerations when addressing those two questions. It 
referred to my statement that it would be enough  if Positive Solutions  had placed  Miss S in 
a position which would  objectively be viewed as carrying  its authority . It said:
This appearsto be asking whether  Positive Solutions appeared to have  given 
Miss S authority to transact a general  class of acts. That is not the correct question. 
The question is whether there was apparent authority in relation to the transaction 
relevant to the Complaint.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I agree the correct question is whether there was apparent 
authority in relation to the acts carried out here. But Im still satisfied its relevant whether 
Positive Solutions placed Miss S in a position which would  objectively be viewed as carrying  
its authority to do the type of acts she did here.
Theres nothing Ive seen  in the case law that says in order  for apparent authority to exist,  
the principal has to have represented that an agent  has its authority to carry out a specific  
act. Instead, Im satisfied  the case law supports  giving weight to representations from a 
principal that an agent  has its authority to carry out a more  general class of acts when 
assessing whether  apparent authority has been given.
For example, in the section of Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal) Ltd 
[1964] 2 Q.B. 480 I quoted in my provisional  decision, Diplock L.J. specifically said:
An apparent or ostensible authority, on the other hand, is a legal relationship  
between the principal and the contractor created by a representation, made by the 
principal to the contractor,  intended  to be and in fact acted upon by the contractor, 
that the agent has authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into a contract of a 
kind within the scope of the apparent authority [my emphasis] 
The representation which creates apparent authority may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to 
Ref: DRN79699074act in some  way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so 
doing the principal represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so 
acting that the agent has authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into contracts  
with the other persons of the kind which an agent  so acting in the conduct of his 
principals business has usually actual  authority to enter  into [my emphasis].
In the section of Hely-Hutchinson v Brayhead Ltd [1968] 1 Q.B.549 I quoted  in my 
provisional decision, Lord Denning M.R. said:
Ostensible or apparent authority is the authority of an agent as it appears  to others. It 
often coincides with actual authority.  Thus,  when  the board  appoint one of their 
number to be managing director, they invest him not only with implied authority, but 
also with ostensible authority to do all such things as fall within the usual 
scope of that office  [my emphasis] . Other  people  who see him acting as managing  
director are entitled to assume that he has the usual authority of a managing director.
And in the section  of Armagas Ltd v Mundogas S.A. [1986] A.C. 717 I quoted  in my 
provisional decision, Lord Keith of Kinkel said:
In the commonly  encountered case,  the ostensible authority is general in character,  
arising when the principal  has placed the agent in a position which in the outside 
world is generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind 
in question.
Ive carefully reconsidered  what this all means  in the circumstances of this case. Taking 
everything into account, Im still satisfied  that for the reasons  set out in my provisional 
decision and below,  Positive Solutions did represent  to Mr C that Miss S had the necessary 
authority. It acted in a number of ways which together amounted to permitting Miss S to act 
in the conduct of its business with customers such as Mr C. Miss S gave Mr C pension 
transfer advice  and made arrangements to transfer his pension  and make an investment  and 
when she did so, she claimed to act on behalf of Positive Solutions. Those  activities  were 
exactly the types of investment services that would be expected of Miss S, an IFA who had 
been assigned  customer facing responsibilities.  In all the circumstances, I believe Positive 
Solutions held her out to Mr C as having its authority to give the advice and make  the 
arrangements that she did.
the alleged representations
Positive Solutions has raised a number of issues with my provisional  finding that it 
represented to Mr C that Miss S had the necessary authority. Several factors  contributed  to 
that finding. I address below the issues Positive Solutions has raised  about  these:
It says Ive relied in part on the fact Miss S held herself out as representing  
Positive Solutions when in fact the representations need  to have been made by 
Positive Solutions. I dont agree this is what Ive done, and Im satisfied the acts and 
statements Ive relied on were  made by Positive Solutions and amounted  to a 
representation by it  in the form of holding out Miss S as having the necessary 
authority  when  they are viewed in the round. I do think its relevant  that Miss Ss 
own conduct was consistent with that representation (she also held herself out as 
acting on Positive  Solutions  behalf). But this is because if she had told Mr C she was 
acting in some different  capacity,  he couldnt  reasonably have relied on Positive 
Solutions representation.
Ref: DRN79699075It says the fact Miss S appeared on the Financial Services  Authority (FSA) register 
doesnt amount  to a representation by it. And it certainly doesnt amount to a 
representation to Mr C. If it did, itd be liable for anything done by a person registered 
in connection  with it. It drew a comparison  with status disclosures, saying that status 
disclosures are required on stationery but in the case of Anderson v Sense Network, 
it was concluded  these status disclosures  cant be representations.
I dont agree with this analysis of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 
(Comm). Im satisfied  Jacobs J simply made  a fact-specific finding in the 
circumstances of that case.  In the section  I quoted  in my provisional decision, he 
said:
In the present case, there  is nothing in the status disclosure  which  contains 
any representation that MFSS [the agent]  or its financial  advisers  could 
operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme that MFSS was 
running.
Given running or advising on deposit schemes  isnt what would be expected  of an 
IFA, I dont  find this conclusion surprising. I also note that in the case of Martin  v 
Britannia Life [1999] EWHC 852 (Ch), Parker J said:
In my judgment the business card which  Mr Sherman proffered at the outset 
of the meeting on 9 May 1991 was the clearest  representation  that he was 
authorised by LAS [the principal] to give such financial adviceIt plainly did 
represent, in my judgment, that Mr Sherman  was authorised to give advice in 
relation to the sale of insurance,  including  advice concerning associated  or 
ancillary transactionsIn particular, it represented that Mr Sherman was 
authorised by LAS to advise on the package of transactions which, in the 
event, he recommended.
I therefore dont  think the comparison with status  disclosures leads to the conclusion  
Positive Solutions has drawn, as Im satisfied  status disclosures in business 
stationery can be representations  that create apparent authority.
In this case, Positive Solutions applied for and obtained the FSAs  published  
approval for Miss S to perform certain controlled functions for it. Those functions 
related to Positive Solutions carrying on its regulated business. The controlled 
functions were known as Customer Function  CF30  and they included  advising its 
customers about pension  transfers and investments and arranging their investment 
transactions. In my view, obtaining the FSAs approval for these arrangements 
contributed to Positive Solutions holding out of Miss S to the world  in general, 
including Mr C, that it authorised Miss S to undertake the types of advice and 
arrangements in issue here.
I dont agree my conclusion here means  Positive  Solutions would  be liable for 
anything Miss S did  only actions  of a kind that would  usually  be within the authority 
of a person placed in Miss Ss position  would be covered. But this includes the types 
of advice and arrangements here.
Positive Solutions says neither the fact Miss S was required to provide 
Positive Solutions terms of business  to her clients,  nor the fact she was given a 
Ref: DRN79699076Positive Solutions email  address have  any bearing on her authority here. Ive thought 
about what Positive Solutions  has said but Im still satisfied both these things add to 
the overall picture of it representing  to the outside  world that Miss S had its authority 
to act as an IFA.
It also says the fact Miss S did the kind of things youd expect of an IFA (allegedly 
giving pension transfer advice and making  arrangements to transfer  Mr Cs pension 
and invest in Harlequin)  isnt relevant  to whether she had apparent authority for the 
specific acts complained about. But as Ive set out, Positive Solutions was and is 
authorised to conduct pension transfers  and Im satisfied that it was within the usual 
authority of its IFAs to do the same. So by holding out Miss S to the outside world  
including Mr C  as its IFA, it represented  that she had that authority.
As Ive set out above, I dont agree my conclusions here mean  Positive Solutions 
would be liable for anything Miss S did  only for acts or omissions involving the kind 
of transactions  itd represented she had the authority to carry out.
It says the fact Miss S used Positive Solutions  name and FSA details to set up the 
SIPP isnt relevant because to the extent it was a representation, it was a 
representation from Miss S to the SIPP  operator  not from Positive Solutions to Mr 
C. As I set out in my provisional  decision, Miss S filled in the forms using  Positive 
Solutions name and FSA details. Positive  Solutions had put her in the position to do 
this and I dont  agree that this is an irrelevant  point. I also dont agree it was only a 
representation to the SIPP operator  Mr C saw all the SIPP paperwork.
Its raised several issues about me relying on the payment of commission  as a 
representation. One of these is that it says it received the commission  after the 
alleged advice so it cant be the basis for apparent  or ostensible authority. Ive 
thought about this carefully and in the circumstances here, although  I think 
Positive Solutions acceptance  of commission is consistent with Miss S having  
Positive Solutions authority, I accept that because of the timing, it didnt amount to a 
representation that Mr C relied on when he entered into the transactions.
But even without giving weight to its acceptance  of commission, for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision and above,  Im satisfied Positive Solutions did represent  to Mr C that 
Miss S had the relevant  authority.
Mr Cs reliance on the alleged representations
Positive Solutions has repeated its belief that Miss S simply introduced  Mr C to the SIPP  
operator and didnt give him any pension  transfer  advice. It has reiterated that there  was no 
formal advice process. And it says its clear Miss Ss position  and her role with Positive  
Solutions werent of importance to Mr C as he simply  wanted  to tick the box of getting an 
introduction to the SIPP operator.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont agree  Miss S simply introduced  Mr 
C to the SIPP operator. Im still satisfied its most  likely she gave him advice.  Mr C had been 
told hed need  to get advice from an IFA in order to set up a SIPP  to invest  in Harlequin.  And 
although it doesnt seem  a formal advice process  was followed, I dont think  that would 
necessarily have rung any alarm bells for Mr C. Im satisfied he thought  he was getting 
regulated advice. And Miss S was only able to give regulated  advice on Positive Solutions 
behalf.
Ref: DRN79699077the fairness of holding Positive Solutions  responsible
Positive Solutions says that in considering in my provisional decision  whether  its fair to hold 
it responsible, Id misdirected myself on the law. I dont  agree. Under  the heading did 
Positive Solutions give Miss S apparent or ostensible  authority?  I set out the relevant case  
law and applied that to the facts  here  concluding  that Positive Solutions had represented 
that Miss S had authority  to carry out the acts complained  about  on its behalf  and that Mr C 
reasonably relied  on those representations. This means that it gave Miss S apparent or 
ostensible authority. When I considered whether it was fair to hold Positive Solutions 
responsible, that was under a separate heading  after Id already concluded apparent or 
ostensible authority had been  given. I note that the courts  also often consider whether a 
particular outcome theyve reached is just and doing  so can be helpful to the parties or 
others who are interested in the decision.
Positive Solutions also has issues with my finding on this point and the things I considered. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  it may be that none of my considerations on their 
own are determinative  as to the justice  of the case. But Im still satisfied that applying the 
test for ostensible authority leads to an outcome that I think  is fair.
vicarious liability
Positive Solutions says the test set out in Cox v Ministry of Justice [2016] UKSC  10 isnt the 
correct test here. I dont  agree. As I set out in my provisional decision, Lord Reed in that 
case said:
a relationship other than one of employment is in principle capable  of giving rise to 
vicarious liability where harm is wrongfully  done  by an individual who carries on activities  
as an integral part of the business activities carried on by a defendant and for its benefit  
(rather than his activities being  entirely attributable to the conduct of a recognisably  
independent business of his own or of a third party), and where  the commission  of the 
wrongful act is a risk created  by the defendant by assigning those activities  to the 
individual in question.
Im still satisfied  for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision  that Miss Ss 
relationship with Positive Solutions and what happened here meets these criteria. It would 
seem to me to be a strange conclusion that despite  this, Positive Solutions couldnt be 
vicariously liable simply  because it had a principal  and agent relationship with Miss S. This is 
particularly so as many employees are given authority, as agents, to carry out business on 
their employers behalf. Indeed, Bowstead & Reynolds  on Agency at 1-004 said:
As to status, an agents status will usually be that of employee or independent 
contractor (but sometimes a gratuitous actor),  and agency is not a separate category.
And with that in mind, it doesnt seem  the intention  can have been that the test in 
Cox v Ministry of Justice doesnt apply whenever  theres an agency relationship. I dont 
agree with Positive Solutions interpretation of what was said in Cox v Ministry of Justice . Its 
referred to a specific section. Ive quoted  the whole paragraph and emphasised in bold the 
section referred to:
Vicarious liability in tort is imposed upon  a person  in respect of the act or omission  of 
another individual, because of his relationship with that individual,  and the connection 
Ref: DRN79699078between that relationship  and the act or omission  in question. Leaving aside other 
areas of the law where vicarious liability can operate, such as partnership and 
agency (with which this judgment is not concerned), the relationship  is classically  
one of employment, and the connection is that the employee committed  the act or 
omission in the course of his employment:  that is to say, within the field of activities  
assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put it in Central Motors (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock 
Garage & Motor Coor, adapting  the words of Diplock  LJ in Ilkiw v Samuelsin the 
course of his job, considered broadly. That aspect of vicarious liability is fully 
considered by Lord Toulson in the case of Mohamud.
I also note that the next paragraph  starts:
It has however long been recognised that a relationship can give rise to vicarious  
liability even  in the absence of a contract  of employment.
Positive Solutions says:
Lord Reed  specifically stated that nothing in his judgment applied  to the law of 
principal and agentSo, properly understood, the law is that Cox is not relevant to 
the present circumstances.
Reading the part Positive Solutions  has referred to in the context of what else was said,  Im 
satisfied Lord Reed was simply saying:
there are cases where the relationship is classically one of employment and 
vicarious liability applies  which the Cox v Ministry of Justice  case considered;  and
there are cases such as partnership and agency where  vicarious liability can apply 
 which  the Cox v Ministry of Justice case didnt consider.
Im not persuaded he was saying a principal cant be vicariously  liable for an agent under 
Cox v Ministry of Justice, even though  their relationship meets  the criteria set out in that 
case and in Mohamud v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016]  UKSC 11.
Ive already pointed  out that agency  is not necessarily a status in its own right.  And I dont 
think the relationship  between  Positive Solutions and Miss S can be defined  by its agency 
aspect. They  had a specific legal relationship under  FSMA and the FSA rules  that of an 
authorised firm and person approved  to carry on customer-facing controlled functions 
(advising on and arranging investments) in relation to the firms regulated  business.  Thats  a 
specific and very close relationship and one that is as consistent with being  an employee as 
an agent or independent contractor.
In my provisional decision I recognised the two-stage Cox v Ministry of Justice  and 
Mohamud v VM Morrison Supermarkets plc test doesnt apply where  deceit was involved. 
Im not aware of any case law that says it doesnt apply simply because there was a principal 
and agent relationship involved. And for the reasons Ive explained, I wouldnt expect the 
courts to arrive at that conclusion.
Positive Solutions says that even if I had applied  the correct test:
it is not accepted  that the conditions of the test are met in any eventNor would it be 
fair just and reasonable to impose  vicarious liability  in this case.  Positive Solutions 
Ref: DRN79699079made clear to Miss S the scope of her authority  and undertook reasonable monitoring 
of her activities.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont agree.  Im satisfied I applied  the 
relevant test and that the conditions of that test were met.
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
Positive Solutions says that:
in circumstances  where Miss S was acting  entirely outside the scope of her authority, 
and where there is no actual or apparent authority or vicarious  liability,  it is denied 
that s.150 FSMA provides  the Complainant with a route  to liability.  In addition, of 
course, our position remains that Miss S did not provide any advice to the 
Complainant
Taking everything into account,  Im still satisfied section 150 FSMA provides an alternative 
route by which  Positive Solutions is responsible. This is a statutory responsibility, and Im not 
persuaded that (if Im wrong about  apparent authority) the absence of actual or apparent 
authority would mean that responsibility  wouldnt arise under section 150 FSMA:
Section 150 FSMA is a consumer-protecting  provision relating to regulatory rules 
which were themselves created to protect consumers. Together they create a 
statutory right to damages for breaches of the Regulators rules and this can apply 
even where theres no relationship between the firm and the consumer, so I wouldnt 
expect the absence of apparent authority to be decisive.
Instead the way FSMA  is framed and has been  interpreted by the Regulator seems  
to analyse the question  of a firms responsibility  for its personnel/contractors (if they 
arent appointed  representatives)  according  to the question of whose  business  is 
being carried on  the principals or the individuals. This is essentially very similar to 
the Cox v Ministry of Justice test. Its not done  according to the law of 
agency/ostensible authority. 
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) is current Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) guidance which directly addresses  the question  of regulatory responsibility  for 
an authorised persons delegated  activities. It deals with the question of whether a 
delegated activity is carried on for regulatory purposes by an employer/principal or by 
their employee/agent. It explains that employees and agents wont breach  the 
general prohibition  if the employee/agent is doing  no more than carrying  on the 
business of their employer/principal   as opposed  to carrying  on their own business. 
And it describes  relevant factors for deciding whose business is being carried  on 
(PERG 2.3.5-2.3.7).  
FSA rules and now FCA rules  control how firms carry on regulated  and other 
activities, including delegated activities carried on by the firm. Deciding whether a 
firm has breached a rule (including  for section 150 FSMA  purposes) involves the 
same question  as the PERG guidance  whether it was the firm which was carrying  
on the relevant  activity  as part of its business, as opposed  to a delegate carrying on 
the activity as part of its own business.
Ref: DRN796990710So the relevant question  under section 150 FSMA  is which  partys business  (i.e. 
Positive Solutions or Miss Ss) was being  carried on. That question  is similar to the 
test in Cox v Ministry of Justice but it isnt limited by whether there was actual or 
ostensible authority. 
To help understand the test, the FCA guidance  explains how it applies, as an 
example, in the provision of home credit. This is a regulated business in which large 
firms often deal with their customers through self-employed  agents,  who call on 
customers at their homes to make  loans and collect payments on which they earn 
commission. PERG 2.3.11 states:
Although the overall relationship between a home collected credit  provider 
(the principal  firm) and a person providing  the services(the individual) will 
need to be taken into account, meeting the following criteria is likely to mean 
that the individual is carrying on the business of the principal firm (as its 
agent) and not his own, meaning that the individual  does  not require 
authorisation or to be exempt:
(1)the principal firm appoints the individual as an agent;
(2)the individual only works for one principal firm;
(3)the principal firm has a permission from the FCA for every activity  
the individual is carrying on for which the principal  firm would need 
permission if it was carrying on the activity itself;
(4)the contract sets out effective measures for the principal firm to 
control the individual;
(6)the principal firm accepts full responsibility  for the conduct of the 
individual when  the individual is acting on the principal  firms  
behalf in the course  of its business;  and
(7)the individual makes clear to customers that it is representing a 
principal firm as its agent and the name  of that principal firm.
The relationship described in PERG  2.3.11  has a lot of similarities to the relationship 
between Miss S and Positive Solutions:
oPositive Solutions had appointed Miss S as an agent.
oThe FCA register suggests  Miss S wasnt an approved person or appointed 
representative for any other firm at the relevant time.
oPositive Solutions had permission  for the activities carried on by Miss S that 
needed permission.
oThe agreement between Positive Solutions  and Miss S set out a number of 
measures for Positive Solutions to control Miss S.
oClause 2.4 of the agreement between Positive  Solutions  and Miss S said:
Ref: DRN796990711The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and 
representations of the Registered Individual in the course of carrying  
out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the course of 
performance of the duties  hereby contracted
oIm satisfied  Miss S told Mr C she was representing  Positive  Solutions as its 
agent.
So, looking  at whose  business Miss S was carrying on in this case when she dealt with Mr 
C, I still think it was Positive Solutions business and not her own.  And I think  my finding that 
Positive Solutions is liable  under section 150 FSMA for the acts complained about is in line 
with how FSMA and the rules are intended to operate.
In the circumstances, Im still satisfied  that under section 150 FSMA Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
merits
I note Positive Solutions comments  about  the need  to decide jurisdiction before considering 
the merits of the complaint. Like my provisional  decision, this decision addresses both 
jurisdiction and merits issues.  To confirm, I considered  jurisdiction separately  and only 
considered merits once I was satisfied the complaint was in this services jurisdiction.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont feel its appropriate in the circumstances 
here to restrict my decision to jurisdiction.  In deciding this Ive considered  the age of the 
case; the fact that deciding jurisdiction here essentially  involves deciding responsibility for 
the acts complained about; and the fact Im satisfied theres  enough evidence  and 
arguments available to allow me to fairly  and reasonably decide the merits of the complaint.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im still satisfied for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision that the advice Miss S gave Mr C wasnt suitable 
and amounted to a negligent misstatement. And Im still satisfied that if she had given Mr C 
suitable advice,  he wouldnt  have made  the Harlequin investment in question here.
proposed compensation
Positive Solutions has raised a number of issues with my proposed compensation which Ive 
addressed below:
It says it requires evidence that Mr C lost the whole of the investment and received 
no returns from it. My conclusion that Mr C has lost the whole of the investment and 
received no returns from it is based  on my knowledge of these investments and the 
fact building  work was never  completed.
The problems with Harlequin are well publicised. I think its highly unlikely Mr C has 
received any returns or will receive a return. Nonetheless, my proposed 
compensation allows Positive Solutions  to ask Mr C for an undertaking to give it the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin investment. So if Im 
wrong to have valued the investment at zero, this will enable  Positive  Solutions to 
recover any remaining value.
Ref: DRN796990712The calculation Positive Solutions is required to carry out will consider any returns  
received from the investment historically  so Mr C should confirm whether there were 
any if Positive Solutions asks him. In the circumstances I think it would be 
disproportionate to ask Mr C about any returns before making a final decision.
It says the calculation of compensation shouldnt run from the date of the investment 
to the date of this decision because  this penalises it for the length of time the 
complaint has been with this service. I agree the complaint has been  with this service  
far longer  than wed have liked and I apologise for that. But Mr Cs losses  cover  that 
whole period and I dont  think he should be disadvantaged because  of the length of 
the time the complaint  has been  with our service. In the circumstances, fair 
compensation should put Mr C back in the position he would have been in, but for the 
unsuitable advice  Positive Solutions  is responsible for. In my view, Positive Solutions 
should have upheld the complaint  when it was first made and so Im satisfied its fair 
for it to be held responsible for Mr Cs whole loss.
It says an interest rate of 8% simple  a year is unreasonably high and doesnt reflect 
market conditions. But Ive only required  interest to be paid if Positive  Solutions  
doesnt pay the compensation within 90 days of being informed that Mr C has 
accepted my decision. If it pays the compensation within  this timeframe it wont have 
to pay the interest. In these circumstances Im satisfied its fair for me to specify that 
interest will accrue at a rate of 8% simple a year.
It says an award for the trouble and upset Mr C has been  caused isnt appropriate in 
the circumstances here because  Positive  Solutions  is also a victim of Miss Ss 
activities.  But even  if Positive Solutions  didnt know Miss S had advised Mr C, for the 
reasons Ive given,  Im satisfied its responsible for her advice. And in these 
circumstances, Im satisfied its fair for it to compensate Mr C for the consequences  
of that advice  one of which is the trouble and upset hes been  caused  by it.
suitability for the ombudsman service
When this service received Mr Cs complaint, the rule that covered grounds for dismissal  
(DISP 3.3.4R) said:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if he 
considers that
(10) it would be more  suitable for the subject  matter of the complaint to be 
dealt with by a court, arbitration or another complaints scheme
Positive Solutions says:
We suggest that the number, complexity  and importance of the issues of law you 
have considered mean that (now the Provisional Decision has been  issued)  it can be 
clearly seen that the Complaint is more appropriately dealt with by the Court.
Further, and separately, we suggest  that it is impossible to make  fair findings on the 
issue of reliance without  cross examination and disclosure.  These matters again  
suggest that the dispute should  be referred  to the Court.
   
Ref: DRN796990713Ive carefully considered  what its said but I dont agree.  This service regularly considers 
complaints that involve  deciding whether a business is responsible  for the acts complained  
about. I accept that deciding  this in this case involves complex issues and that its a 
developing area of law. But Im not persuaded this means the subject matter  of the complaint 
is more suitable  for a court.
Im also satisfied a fair decision can be made without cross  examination  and disclosure. 
Miss S and Mr C have both given  their clear recollections of what happened and theres 
nothing that makes me think relevant evidence hasnt  been disclosed. In the circumstances 
here, I dont  think the courts ability to cross examine  and order  disclosure would  add 
anything.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied it isnt more suitable for this complaint to be 
handled by a court. I therefore  havent  dismissed  it.
oral hearing
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the parties 
to take part in a hearing.
Positive Solutions hasnt  requested a hearing but Im aware  it has on other similar 
complaints. Ive therefore thought about  this carefully and in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint Im satisfied I can fairly  determine the matter without a hearing.  In particular, I 
note:
The events complained of happened  more than ten years ago and memories 
inevitably fade. Im satisfied I can reach  a fair outcome  using all the available 
evidence and Im not persuaded hearing oral evidence would assist me.
Positive Solutions clearly believes Ive misunderstood the law and it has set out its 
position clearly in writing.
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (Heather  Moor  & Edgecomb Ltd).
fair compensation
Im satisfied that a fair outcome would be for Positive Solutions  to put Mr C, as far as 
possible, into the position he would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Im satisfied its 
most likely he wouldnt  have moved  his pension if everything had happened  as it should 
have.
Where I uphold  a complaint (in full or part), I can make a money award requiring a financial 
business to pay compensation up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000,  plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate.  If I consider that fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I may recommend the financial business  to pay the balance.
This recommendation wont  be part of my determination or award. It wont  bind the financial 
business. Itd be unlikely that Mr C could accept  my decision and go to court  to ask for the 
Ref: DRN796990714balance. He may want to consider getting independent advice before deciding whether to 
accept my decision.
the specified steps
Positive Solutions should:
Undertake a redress calculation in line with the Regulators pension review  guidance  
as updated by the FCA in October  2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and use the 
most recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. The value of 
the Harlequin investment should  be assumed to be nil. In accordance  with the 
Regulators expectations, this calculation should be undertaken  or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of 
the decision.
Positive Solutions may wish to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions  
(DWP) to obtain Mr Cs contribution history  to the State  Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  These  details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should if possible 
be paid into one of Mr Cs pension  plans. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into a 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If payment into a pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications,  it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would 
have been tax-free  and 75% would have been  taxed  according  to his likely  income  
tax rate in retirement so the notional deduction  should reflect  this.
Pay Mr C five years worth  of SIPP fees. Had Miss S given suitable  advice  I dont 
think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr C continue to pay the annual SIPP 
fees if it cant be closed.  Ideally,  Positive Solutions  should  take over the Harlequin 
investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the fairest  way of putting Mr C 
back into the position he would have been  in. But as I understand it, the ownership of 
the Harlequin investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at 
some point,  but I dont  know when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Positive Solutions pays  Mr C 
an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees) or undertakes to cover  the fees that fall due during the next 
five years.  This should  provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the 
SIPP can be closed.
In return for this, Positive  Solutions  may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to give it 
the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin investment in that 
five-year period, as well as any other payment  he may receive from any party  as a 
result of the investment. If Positive Solutions  limits  compensation to £150,000, the 
Ref: DRN796990715undertaking will only apply to the extent  any payment received is more than what was 
effectively written off by Positive  Solutions limiting  the compensation. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount he may 
receive. Positive Solutions  will need  to meet any costs in drawing up this 
undertaking. If it asks Mr C to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded by my decision may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If after five years, Positive Solutions  wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain 
an undertaking for any future payments under the Harlequin investment, it must 
agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. If Positive Solutions fails to pay the SIPP 
fees, Mr C should  then have the option  of trying  to cancel the Harlequin investment to 
allow the SIPP to be closed.
Pay Mr C £300 compensation for the stress and worry  hes suffered thinking hed lost 
a significant proportion of his pension  provision.
If everything had happened  as it should have, Im satisfied  that in the circumstances here, 
Mr C would have lost the £1,000 he paid as a deposit for the Harlequin  property in question 
here. Positive Solutions can therefore  deduct  £1,000  from the compensation it pays to Mr C.
If Positive Solutions doesnt pay the compensation within 90 days of being  informed  that 
Mr C has accepted my decision, interest,  at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added 
from the date of my decision to the date of payment. But its possible that data gathering for 
a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day 
period allowed for settlement  and so any period of time where the only outstanding item 
required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period 
in which  interest wont  apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive  Solutions  deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Positive  Solutions should  
give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Mr Cs Harlequin investment was a deposit. There are therefore more parts of the contract 
for the remaining purchase price of the property that havent  been paid yet. No loss has 
been suffered  yet for these  parts  of the contract, so it isnt being compensated for here. But 
the loss may still occur. If the property is completed, Harlequin could still require those 
payments to be made. I think its unlikely there  will be a further loss. But Mr C needs to 
understand that this is possible,  and he wont  be able to bring a further complaint to us if the 
contract is called  upon.
my final decision
determination and award: my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd and require Positive  Solutions  (Financial 
Services) Ltd to carry out the steps  specified in the fair compensation section above  up to 
a maximum financial effect of £150,000, plus any interest.
recommendation: if the financial effect  of the award  exceeds £150,000, I recommend that 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd still carry out in full the steps Ive specified  above.
Ref: DRN796990716Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN796990717COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION ISSUED ON 7 NOVEMBER 2019
complaint
Mr C complains a Miss S wrongly advised him to move his pension to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) to invest £40,500 in Harlequin property. Miss S is a registered  individual of Positive  
Solutions (Financial Services) Limited so Mr C believes its responsible.
background
the factual background
Mr C says a friend  and neighbour whod  invested in Harlequin suggested he did too. His friend 
introduced him to someone who worked  at an unregulated business  and suggested he talk to him 
about investing.
Mr C has told us:
[The person hed been introduced to] SUGGESTED IT WAS A GOOD POSSIBLE PENSION 
INVESTMENT AS LONG  AS IT COULD BE DONE VIA A SIPP & THAT I SHOULD OBTAIN 
IFA ADVICE  IF I WAS INTERESTED.
I CONTACTED ERICA SAMPLE  OF POSITIVE SOLUTIONS WHO AGREED  TO ARRANGE 
THE TRANSFER OF MY PENSION POT
I CONTACTED ERICA SAMPLE  WHO ADVISED IT WAS POSSIBLE  TO SET UP A SIPP TO 
ENABLE INVESTMENT  IN HARLEQUIN
ERICA SAMPLE  THEN HELPED  MANAGE  THE PROCESS OF SETTING  UP THE SIPP
This was the first time Mr C had any dealings  with Miss S. It seems she presented herself  as being  an 
adviser for Positive  Solutions.  Its not clear  whether she gave him any status disclosure documents  
setting out the exact nature of her relationship  with Positive  Solutions.
Positive Solutions says Miss S was approached  at a networking event  and asked to introduce Mr C to 
the SIPP  operator. It says she was told everything was already in place  including  the documentation  
 but Mr C couldnt approach  the SIPP  operator himself  as it didnt accept  direct applications from 
clients.
A letter from Harlequin to Mr C dated 2 September  2009 shows that Mr C had sent a reservation form 
and a £1,000 reservation  fee to Harlequin for the Harlequin property in question here.
In October 2009 Mr C invested £60,000 in two other Harlequin properties. Hes told us the money  for 
those properties came from selling  shares  and increasing his mortgage.
Its not clear exactly when  Miss S became involved, but the first piece of documentation  Ive seen  that 
names Miss S is the SIPP application form which was signed on 2 November  2009:
It named Miss S in the financial/professional  adviser  section where she was listed as being an 
IFA with Positive  Solutions and Positive Solutions details  including its address  and 
Financial Services  Authority (FSA) number   were  included.
In response to the question Have you received advice from your adviser in respect of this 
transaction? the yes box had been ticked (although I note the no box had also been ticked 
and had then been crossed out).
Ref: DRN796990718In answer to the question Is the adviser  to receive remuneration by deduction from the fund?  
the yes box had been  ticked. It then said Miss S would  receive an Initial payment  rather 
than a Renewal payment  of 3% of the fund. The bank  details given for this payment seem 
to be the details  of Positive Solutions  main commission  account. An INTRODUCER FEE 
CALCULATOR calculated the commission to be £2,036.30. 
Ive also been provided with a different  application form for the SIPP account dated 8 December 2009 
in which Miss S has signed an IFA confirmation. And various other forms, documents  and emails 
name Miss S as the IFA. For example, internal  emails  within the SIPP operator dated 7 December 
2009 and 21 December 2009; the SIPP  operators NEW  BUSINESS PROCEDURE CHECKLIST ; 
and the INTRODUCER FEE CALCULATOR . The SIPP account was opened  on 11 December  2009.
A Harlequin purchase form was signed on 14 December  2009. And the contract  dated 
10 August 2009 was signed  on 21 December 2009 by Mr C and on 15 January 2010 by Harlequin.
£67,876.80 was transferred  into the SIPP from Mr Cs previous pension   an occupational pension 
scheme  on 5 January 2010. Theres a handwritten note from Miss S on the same day saying 
Please find enclosed Harlequin contracts, hotel room application & telegraphic  transfer form for 
[Mr C]. And £40,500 was paid to Harlequin on 12 January  2010 following a chaser from Miss S. This 
was a first payment for the property and other payments were to become due later as building 
progressed. The SIPP administrator then refunded the £1,000 reservation fee Mr C had paid with a 
cheque that was paid from the SIPP account.
An email was sent by Miss S from a Positive Solutions email address  to the SIPP provider on 16 
February 2010 which said:
I know you said payment  was to be made last week, I was just wondering as 
[Positive Solutions] havent allocated it to me yet, if you would mind forwarding me a 
commission statement  if possible to help allocation .
The SIPP provider confirmed this had been paid to Positive  Solutions on 10 February 2010.
The property was never built.  Mr C complained to Positive Solutions but Positive Solutions didnt 
uphold his complaint. In summary, it said Miss S had simply introduced  Mr C to the SIPP  provider and 
didnt provide  any advice in relation to either the SIPP or Harlequin. Mr C therefore came  to this 
service. He also arranged for £20,000 to be transferred out of the SIPP  to a new provider.
An adjudicator was satisfied  this service  could consider the complaint against Positive  Solutions. And 
that it should  be upheld. He was satisfied Miss S had advised Mr C and had done so in her role as a 
registered individual of Positive Solutions. He said she should have assessed the suitability of the 
pension transfer and investment in Harlequin and advised against it in the circumstances. He was 
satisfied if suitable advice had been given, Mr C would  have left his pension where it was.
Positive Solutions didnt agree. Ive read and considered its response in its entirety. In summary it 
said:
Miss S didnt advise Mr C. The fact it doesnt have a business file supports this. As does the 
fact she was only paid an introducer  fee.
The fact Miss S used a Positive Solutions email address doesnt mean  its liable.
Miss S hadnt acted in line with the terms of the agreement  it had with her.
Mr C already held two Harlequin investments so understood them  and their risks.  He was 
friends with the Harlequin broker.
Ref: DRN796990719Mr C had already  reserved the property in question and paid the reservation fee before he 
met Miss S.
Miss S was only involved because Mr C couldnt deal directly  with the SIPP  operator. He 
would have  done  so if he could. He wasnt looking for help and advice from Miss S.
Mr C had lots of experience in financial matters and wasnt a typical retail  client.
the regulatory background
regulated activities
Section 22(1)  of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says:
An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a specified 
kind which is carried on by way of business and  
(a)relates to an investment of a specified kind
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and include:
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  a particular  investment which  is a security or a 
relevant investment (article 53 RAO).
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).
A collective  investment scheme is a security or relevant  investment (article  81 RAO).  As are 
stakeholder pension schemes (article 82 RAO).
the general  prohibition and the approved persons regime
Section 19 FSMA  says:
(1)No person may carry on a regulated  activity  in the United Kingdom, or purport  to do so, 
unless he is 
(a)an authorised person;  or
(b)an exempt person.
(2)The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general  prohibition.
Positive Solutions is  and was at the time of the events here  an authorised person. So it could 
carry out regulated  activities without being in breach of the general  prohibition.
Miss S wasnt an authorised  person. And she wasnt exempt from authorisation. So if shed  carried 
out a regulated activity on her own behalf, shed  have been  in breach of the general prohibition.
But she held a controlled function with Positive Solutions that allowed  her to carry out regulated 
activities. So in her capacity  as a registered individual of Positive  Solutions she was able to carry  out 
regulated activities.
Section 59(1)  FSMA  required Positive Solutions to take reasonable care to make sure Miss S didnt 
carry out a controlled  function unless she was acting in accordance with an approval given  by the 
FSA.
Ref: DRN796990720breach of statutory duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person 
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.
One such  rule in place at the time was in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) section of the 
FSAs Handbook. COBS 9.2.1R(1) said:
A firm must take reasonable  steps to ensure  that a personal recommendation, or a decision to 
trade, is suitable for its client.
Im satisfied Mr C was a private person under  section 150(1) FSMA.  So if he suffered a loss as a 
result of Positive Solutions breaching a rule, hed have  a right of action against  it for breach of 
statutory duty. Miss S wasnt a firm, so hed have no such right against Miss S.
my provisional  findings  on jurisdiction
This service isnt able to look at all complaints. We operate  under a set of rules  and guidance that tell 
us what  we can and cant look at. These are published as part of the Financial  Conduction Authoritys  
(FCA) Handbook  in a section called Dispute  Resolution: complaints (the DISP Rules).  
Ive considered all the information provided  by both parties  to decide whether this complaint is one we 
can consider  against Positive  Solutions. Im currently planning to decide it is. Ive explained my 
thinking below.
the compulsory jurisdiction
DISP 2.3.1R says we can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an 
act or omission by a firm in carrying  onregulated  activitiesor any ancillary activities, including  
advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them .
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G  says that complaints about acts or omissions include those in 
respect of activities for which  the firmis  responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firmhas accepted responsibility.
Positive Solutions is clearly  a firm under our rules.  So to decide whether its responsible  here, there 
are two issues I need to consider:
Were the acts about  which  Mr C complains done in the carrying  on of a regulated activity  or 
ancillary to a regulated  activity?
Did the principal firm, Positive Solutions, accept responsibility for those  acts?
were the acts Mr C complains about done in the carrying on of a regulated  activity   or 
ancillary to a regulated activity?
Im satisfied the Harlequin property Mr C invested in was a security or a relevant investment.  As was 
the SIPP  that was set up. Mr C says Miss S advised him. Positive Solutions says no advice was given 
and Miss S only introduced Mr C to the SIPP operator.
I accept Miss S may not have  given Mr C advice  to invest in Harlequin  property.  But taking everything 
into account,  Im satisfied  she did advise him to transfer his pension to a SIPP in order to invest in it.
Ref: DRN796990721I accept Positive Solutions doesnt have a business file for the pension transfer and investment and 
says it has no record of it. It says there would be a file if Miss S had given advice. I assume  it means 
she would have produced  things like a suitability report. But although  suitability reports are one of the 
indicators that advice  was given, the absence of one doesnt  mean advice wasnt given.
In the circumstances here, there are a number of other things that satisfy me its most likely advice 
was given:
Mr Cs recollections  of his conversation  with Miss S suggest to me that she gave him advice.
The box on the SIPP application form is ticked to say advice was given.
As noted above, the no option had been  ticked but then crossed  out. Miss S says she 
questioned the fact the answer had been changed  at the time but was told the question 
needed to be answered yes for the SIPP operators internal compliance.
Ive thought carefully about  this. I accept its possible that Miss S agreed for a form to be 
submitted that didnt  reflect  whatd actually  happened. But I dont think  this is most likely.  If 
Miss S hadnt  given advice, I would  have expected  her to say this  even if it meant the SIPP 
couldnt be set up without further steps being taken. The fact she didnt  suggests to me that 
its most likely  she did stray  into advising Mr C.
Although Positive  Solutions  has said Miss S was only paid an introducer fee, the only mention  
of the fee being an introducer fee is the fact the calculator that was used for it was an 
introducer fee calculator.  Although  the SIPP application  form offers  two options  Initial 
payment and Renewal payment  it doesnt make any reference to introducer  and/or 
adviser fees. Instead it simply asks Is the adviser  to receive remuneration by deduction  from 
the fund?  after asking whether advice had been given.  So in fact, the application form 
suggests the fee was for advice  having been given.
Miss S was named  on a number of the forms as Mr Cs IFA.
Miss S was involved in chasing  up the pension  transfer for the Harlequin investment to be 
made. There were many  emails between her and the SIPP operator. Although I note Positive  
Solutions comments that this was led by Mr C, these dont seem to be the actions of 
someone whod simply made an introduction to a SIPP operator. They suggest to me that she 
was far more involved than that.
Positive Solutions says Mr Cs neighbour/friend and the person he was then referred  to were the ones 
who advised  him. It says by the time Mr C was referred  to Miss S hed already made  up his mind  and 
wasnt looking  for any advice.  Ive thought about this carefully.  But even if Mr C had already been 
advised by other people, that doesnt mean Miss S didnt  also give advice.
Im also satisfied Miss S carried out the regulated activity of making arrangements for someone to buy 
or sell or subscribe  for a security or relevant investment. Its clear to me from the correspondence Ive 
been provided  with that she was involved in arranging  the pension  transfer and Harlequin investment. 
For example, on the day the £40,500 payment to Harlequin was made, the SIPP operator sent an 
email to her saying:
we will await instruction from Harlequin to pay the next instalment  and I would ask that you 
consider how future  payments will be made.
And as set out above, there were many emails from Miss S chasing  up the transfer  to make sure the 
Harlequin investment could  be made.
did Positive Solutions accept responsibility for those acts?
Ref: DRN796990722Mr C didnt deal with any employees of Positive Solutions  although  Miss S was an agent of Positive  
Solutions, she wasnt its employee. But Positive Solutions might still be responsible,  even if none of 
its employees were involved.
This could be through  having  given  actual authority;  having given apparent or ostensible authority;  
being vicariously liable; and/or having statutory  responsibility.
did Positive Solutions give Miss S actual authority?
Positive Solutions has provided a copy of the agreement it says was in place between  it and Miss S. 
The agreement was quite  restrictive  and significantly limited the activities Miss S was authorised to 
undertake.
Clause 2.1 said:
The Company hereby  appoints  the Registered  Individual  as its Registered  Individual for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for new Contracts,  for submission  to 
Institutions specified  by the Registered Individual  and approved by the Company.
And clause  2.4 said:
the Company  shall not be bound by acts of the Registered Individual  which exceed the 
authority granted  under  the provision of this Agreement
Positive Solutions says it never  approved Harlequin investments  or transfers to the SIPP operator 
involved here. It says it had no terms of business  in place with either Harlequin  or the SIPP operator. 
And its provided an extract of approved agencies which  doesnt include either Harlequin or the SIPP 
operator. 
On the other hand, Ive seen the SIPP  application form and emails which suggest  the SIPP operator  
paid commission to Positive  Solutions  that Miss S was then allocated.  And this suggests to me that 
Miss S did have Positive Solutions  actual authority.
However, its not clear to me whether  Miss S had the required qualifications to give pension transfer 
advice. And in any event, Ive gone on to explain  that I think  Positive  Solutions gave Miss S 
apparent/ostensible authority and is vicariously  liable for her actions.  So for the purposes of this 
decision, Ive proceeded on the basis Positive Solutions didnt give Miss S actual authority.
did Positive Solutions give Miss S apparent or ostensible  authority?
Although Miss Ss actions  werent authorised in her agreement with Positive Solutions,  it could also 
have given whats called  apparent or ostensible  authority.
the relevant case law
It was described  in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal) Ltd:
An apparent or ostensible authority,  on the other hand, is a legal  relationship between the 
principal and the contractor  created by a representation, made by the principal to the 
contractor, intended to be and in fact acted upon by the contractor, that the agent has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the 
apparent authority,  so as to render the principal liable  to perform any obligations  imposed 
upon him by such contract. To the relationship so created the agent is a stranger. He need 
not be (although he generally is) aware of the existence of the representation but he must not 
purport to make the agreement as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by 
the contractor  by entering into a contract with the agent,  operates as an estoppel, preventing 
Ref: DRN796990723the principal  from asserting that he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the 
agent had actual authority to enter into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the actual authority of the agent. His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority.
The representation which  creates apparent authority may take a variety of forms of which 
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with the other persons  of the kind 
which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually actual 
authority to enter into.
Although the judge referred to contractors, the law on apparent authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including consumers like Mr C.
In Hely-Hutchinson  v Brayhead  Ltd, one of the judges said:
Ostensible or apparent authority is the authority of an agent as it appears to others. It often 
coincides with actual authority. Thus,  when  the board appoint one of their number to be 
managing director,  they invest him not only with implied  authority, but also with ostensible  
authority to do all such things as fall within the usual scope of that office. Other  people who 
see him acting as managing  director are entitled to assume that he has the usual authority of 
a managing director. But sometimes ostensible authority  exceeds  actual authority. For 
instance, when the board appoint the managing director, they may expressly limit his authority 
by saying  he is not to order goods worth more  than £500 without the sanction of the board. In 
that case his actual  authority is subject to the £500 limitation, but his ostensible authority 
includes all the usual authority of a managing  director. The company is bound by his 
ostensible authority  in his dealings with those who do not know of the limitation. He may 
himself do the holding-out.  Thus, if he orders goods  worth  £1,000 and signs himself 
Managing Director for and on behalf of the company, the company is bound  to the other 
party who does not know of the £500 limitation.
And in Martin and another v Britannia Life Limited  the judge quoted Article 74 in Bowstead  and 
Reynolds on Agency 16th edition to explain apparent or ostensible authority:
Where a person, by words or conduct, represents or permits it to be represented that another 
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority.
This was endorsed in the case of Anderson v Sense Network,  where the judge  said:
In my view,  a case of ostensible authority requires  much more than an assertion  that Sense 
conferred a badge of respectability on MFSS. As Martin shows, it requires a representation 
that there was authority to give advice of the type that was giventhe relevant question is 
whether the firm has knowingly or even unwittingly led a customer to believe that an 
appointed representative or other agent is authorised to conduct business  on its behalf of a 
type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct
Ref: DRN796990724Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case was not concerned 
with any representation  alleged to arise from status  disclosure. In Martin, the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the status disclosure which contains any representation  that MFSS or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
And in Armagas Ltd v Mundogas  S.A. one of the judges said:
In the commonly  encountered case, the ostensible  authority is general in character,  arising  
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question.
In Sino Channel Asia Ltd v Dana Shipping and Trading (Singapore) Ptd Ltd the judge said:
the foundation of ostensible  authority is the representation of the principal and it is generally  
trite law that an employee/agent cannot purport to create his own ostensible authority.  
However, though a communication is made directly (or immediately) by the agent, it may be 
inferred that the representation is that of the principal,  arising from his conduct
As explained  by Lord Pearson  in the Hely-Hutchinson caseThat may be shown by 
inference from the conduct of the board of directors [the principal]  in the particular  case  by, for 
instance, placing the agent in a position where he can hold himself out as their agent and 
acquiescing in his activities, so that it can be said they have in effect caused the 
representation to be made.  They are responsible for it and, in the contemplation  of law, they 
are to be taken to have made the representation to the outside contractor
As expressed by the High Court of Australia, in Pacific  Carriers Ltd v BNP ParibasThe  
holding out might  result from permitting a person to act in a certain  manner  without taking 
proper safeguards against  misrepresentation
In Gurtner v BeatonNeill LJ observedThe development of the doctrine  has been based in 
part upon the principle that where the court has to decide which  of two innocent parties  is to 
suffer from the wrongdoing  of a third party the court will incline towards  placing the burden 
upon the party who was responsible for putting the wrongdoer in the position in which he 
could commit the wrong.
Here, Id therefore need to decide that Positive Solutions made representations to Mr C that Miss S 
had the necessary authority. It isnt enough for Miss S to have said she was acting on behalf of 
Positive Solutions. But it would be enough if Positive Solutions had placed Miss S in a position  which 
would objectively be viewed as carrying its authority.
Id also need to decide  that Mr C reasonably relied  on those representations.  In the case of 
Anderson v Sense Network , the judge  said:
a relevant ingredient  of a case based on apparent authority is reliance on the faith of the 
representation allegedIn Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  representation in 
that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice concerning a 
remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them  proceeded  
throughout on the footing  that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every respect as the 
agent of [the alleged principal] with authority  from [the alleged principal]  so to act.
The case law is clear that whether representations  were  relied upon very much depends on the facts 
of the case.
Ref: DRN796990725did Positive Solutions represent to Mr C that Miss S had its authority to act on its behalf in terms of 
the activities  hes complaining about?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that in the circumstances here, Positive  Solutions did 
represent to Mr C that Miss S had the necessary authority. I say this because  Im satisfied Miss S was 
holding herself out as acting on behalf of Positive Solutions and:
Miss Ss name appeared on the FSA/FCAs register in connection  with Positive  Solutions 
between 24 September 2003 and 28 May 2019. The register  shows that between 
1 November 2007  and 28 May 2019 she was approved  by the FSA (and later the FCA)  to 
carry out the controlled function CF30 Customer on behalf of Positive  Solutions. This meant 
she could advise on, and arrange,  investments and set up SIPPs for Positive Solutions 
customers. And she could advise on pension transfers if she held the correct qualifications.
None of these activities would be unexpected for an IFA firm. They  are all the type of activity  
that IFAs are usually authorised to do. The transfer of occupational pensions is a specialist 
activity that some IFA firms arent allowed to do. But Positive Solutions was  and still is  
authorised to do this. Positive Solutions was representing to the outside world that Miss S 
was an IFA for it.
The agreement between Miss S and Positive Solutions required Miss S to provide Positive  
Solutions Terms of Business to each of her clients.  Miss S was also given  a Positive  
Solutions email address which she used when communicating with Mr C and the other 
businesses involved.  So again, Positive Solutions was representing  to the outside world that 
Miss S was an IFA for it.
Miss S then gave  Mr C pension transfer advice  and made arrangements to transfer his 
pension and make  an investment. This is exactly what  would be expected from an IFA. And 
its something Positive Solutions did in principle allow its registered  individuals to do. 
Positive Solutions had therefore put Miss S in a position where it would have appeared that 
she had its actual  authority.
I accept Positive Solutions required  its registered  individuals  to act in line with the agreement  
theyd entered. And it seems Miss S didnt here. And its not clear whether she had the 
necessary qualifications to advise on pension transfers. But the outside world  and Mr C in 
particular  wouldnt have  known what the requirements  of the agreement were  and what 
qualifications were required  to advise  on pension transfers. So Im satisfied in the 
circumstances here that this doesnt affect  the representations  Positive Solutions had made.
Positive Solutions name and FSA details  were used to set up the SIPP. I accept Miss S filled 
in those  forms  not Positive Solutions. But Positive  Solutions had put her in the position to do 
this. And anyone  checking the FSA register would have seen that Miss S was approved to 
carry out the controlled function CF30 Customer on behalf of Positive  Solutions.
It seems Positive Solutions  received commission  relating to Mr Cs SIPP. I havent  seen 
anything that suggests  it questioned this or tried to clarify the position. This omission suggests  
to me that it knew Miss S was holding herself out as acting on its behalf  both to other 
businesses and Mr C. And that it didnt have an issue with this.
Im also satisfied that Positive  Solutions  intended to represent to Mr C that Miss S had the necessary 
authority. Providing financial advice was a key part of its business. And I cant  see that its business 
could have succeeded but for the outside  world  treating  its registered individuals  like Miss S  as 
having the necessary authority to give advice and make arrangements on its behalf.
did Mr C rely on that representation when  he entered into the transactions  hes now complaining  
about?
Ref: DRN796990726The question then is whether Mr C relied on those representations. And if he did, whether this was 
reasonable. In the circumstances here, Im satisfied the answer to both of those questions  is yes:
The initial  unregulated business Mr C spoke  to told hed need to get advice from an IFA in 
order to be able to set up a SIPP to invest in Harlequin. Mr C was then introduced to Miss S 
for that advice.  It was therefore reasonable for him to believe he was getting financial advice 
from someone that was regulated to give such advice. Miss S wasnt regulated  to give 
investment advice on her own behalf. The FSA register was clear  that she was only allowed 
to give it on Positive Solutions  behalf.
Mr C didnt have a previous relationship  with Miss S in any other capacity.  He only knew her 
when she was a registered  individual for Positive  Solutions.
I think its unlikely Mr C would have followed Miss Ss advice  if hed known she didnt have  
regulatory authority  to act.
Im therefore  satisfied that Positive  Solutions represented that Miss S had authority to carry  out the 
acts complained about on its behalf. And that Mr C reasonably relied on those representations.
is it fair to hold Positive Solutions responsible?
I note that in the case  law, particularly Sino Channel Asia Ltd v Dana Shipping  and Trading  
(Singapore) Ptd Ltd, the courts have considered   in addition to the two-stage test  whether its just 
to hold the principal responsible for losses caused by the wrongdoing of its agent. Ive therefore 
considered this in the circumstances here. I cant ignore the facts that:
Positive Solutions was in a position where  it could monitor what  Miss S was doing.
It seems Positive Solutions  received commission  relating to Mr Cs SIPP  so it knew Miss S 
had been involved  in some way in him transferring his pension to a SIPP. But it chose to not 
look into this further.
Positive Solutions didnt tell Mr C that there were  any limits on the actual authority itd given  to 
Miss S. I accept it wasnt required to. But Im satisfied the fact it didnt  is relevant.
The SIPP  operator required a regulated  adviser  to give advice. Miss S allowed a box to be 
ticked that said shed done this. And in doing so, she identified herself  as acting for Positive  
Solutions. The SIPP  wouldnt have  been set up but for the involvement of Positive Solutions.
Miss S was a financial adviser and she was giving  financial advice and arranging  a pension 
transfer and investment.  This was the normal  business of Positive  Solutions.
Whilst it may be that none of these things on their own are determinative,  taken  together, Im satisfied 
its fair to hold Positive Solutions responsible.
is Positive Solutions vicariously liable  for Miss Ss actions?
One of the judges in Jetivia SA and another v Bilta Limited and others explained:
Vicarious liability does not involve any attribution of wrongdoing to the principal. It is merely a 
rule of law under which a principal may be held strictly liable for the wrongdoing of someone 
else. This is one reason why the law has been able to impose it as broadly as it has. It 
extends far more  widely than responsibility  under  the law of agency:  to all acts done within the 
course of the agents employment, however humble  and remote he may be from the decision-
making process, and even  if his acts are unknown to the principal, unauthorised by him and 
adverse to his interest or contrary to his express instructions (Lloyd v Grace Smith & Co 
[1912] AC 716), indeed even  if they are criminal (Lister v Hesley Hall Ltd [2002] 1 AC 215).
Ref: DRN796990727An obvious  example of a relationship that can give rise to v[ic]arious liability is the employer/employee 
relationship. But this isnt the only relationship  capable  of giving rise to vicarious liability.
The law of vicarious liability  has been  evolving  over recent years.  Unless deceit is involved, theres  
generally now a two-stage  test for establishing vicarious  liability:
Stage one is to ask whether theres a sufficient relationship between the wrongdoer and the 
principal.
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable.
Ive therefore considered those two stages in the circumstances here. Taking  everything into account, 
Im satisfied Positive Solutions is vicariously  liable  for the reasons Ive explained  below. But even if 
that two-stage test isnt applicable because  of the nature  of the relationship between  Miss S and 
Positive Solutions, Im satisfied its still appropriate  to consider whether Positive Solutions is 
vicariously liable. And in the circumstances here, Im satisfied its fair to say it is. I say this because 
the approved  person  regime  was one of the ways  FSMA  and the FSA made provisions to protect 
consumers. Miss S was a Positive Solutions approved person. And Im satisfied that when she carried 
out the regulated  activities of advising on and arranging  investments, these were activities of Positive 
Solutions.
stage one
In Cox v Ministry of Justice, one of the judges said:
a relationship other than one of employment  is in principle capable of giving rise to vicarious 
liability where harm is wrongfully done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part 
of the business activities carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities 
being entirely  attributable to the conduct of a recognisably independent  business  of his own or of 
a third party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
Im satisfied that in giving  advice  and making arrangements here, Miss S was carrying  on activities as 
an integral part of the business  activities  of Positive Solutions:
Im satisfied she was holding herself out as acting  on behalf of Positive  Solutions  not on 
behalf of a recognisably independent business of her own.
Positive Solutions was an authorised  firm. It was able to carry out regulated activities 
(including giving investment advice)  without being in breach of the general prohibition. And by 
virtue of her relationship  with it, Miss S was able to give investment  advice on behalf of 
Positive Solutions without being in breach  of the general prohibition.
Positive Solutions had given her permission  to carry out the controlled  function CF 30 
Customer on its behalf.  Giving  pension transfer advice and making arrangements for pension 
transfers and investments seems to have been a key part of Positive Solutions business  
model. So itd engaged her to carry out activities that were an integral part of its business.
Im also satisfied that in giving Miss S the permissions it did, Positive Solutions created the risk that 
shed make errors or act negligently.
stage two
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the acts complained about were sufficiently  connected to 
Miss Ss duties on behalf of Positive Solutions for it to be just for Positive Solutions to be held liable:
Ref: DRN796990728Ive already concluded that Miss S gave Mr C pension transfer advice and made 
arrangements for a pension transfer  and investment. Positive Solutions was a firm that 
provided these services  to its customers. So Im satisfied Miss Ss activities were closely  
connected to the business activities of Positive Solutions.
If Positive Solutions isnt vicariously liable,  Mr Cs ability to claim compensation would depend 
on whether Miss S was an employee of Positive Solutions.  In Cox v Ministry of Justice , the 
court suggested  itd be unfair  if Mrs Coxs ability to claim compensation depended on whether  
it was an employee or a prisoner whod injured  her. I think thats particularly relevant  here 
where Mr C had no way of knowing  whether  Miss S was or wasnt an employee of Positive  
Solutions  unlike  Mrs C who could  have found out the status of the person whod injured her.
It seems the SIPP  operator  wouldnt have allowed the SIPP to be set up without a regulated 
adviser having given advice  in this case, Miss S on behalf of Positive  Solutions.
As set out above,  the agreement between Miss S and Positive Solutions says the Company 
shall not be bound  by acts of the Registered Individual  which exceed the authority granted 
under the provision of this Agreement. But I note it also says Any act or omission of the 
Registered Individual shall be treated  as an act or omission of the Company. Theres 
therefore a contradiction here. And I dont think itd be fair and reasonable to simply  decide 
that contradiction in Positive Solutions  favour.
Positive Solutions says it didnt receive  any money as a result of Miss Ss actions  here. But as 
set out above, Ive seen emails suggesting commission  was paid to it that Miss S was then 
allocated. Its not clear whether Positive Solutions kept any of that commission.  But even if it 
didnt, the court in Mohamud v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc was clear  that vicarious  
liability can apply  even where  no commission was received.
I recognise my findings on this point  are different  to those in Frederick  v Positive  Solutions where  
Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously  liable. But Im satisfied the facts are very different. 
In that case  the registered  individual  (Mr Warren) had submitted dishonest  and fraudulent mortgage  
applications and it was found that:
the only conclusion  that one can form is that this is a case, using the old fashioned 
phraseology, where Mr. Warren was off on a frolic of his own. It is true that the risk of him 
carrying out the fraud was, in the but for sense, created by him having  been appointed the 
defendants agent and having been given  access to the portal but that is only one small part 
of the overall test which one has to look at. It cannot properly be said,  in my judgment,  having  
regard to Lord Reeds analysis of the test, that Mr. Warren was, in perpetrating this particular 
fraud in this particular way, in any sense  carrying  on those activities as an integral  part of the 
business activities of the defendant and for its benefit. This is not a legitimate  transaction  
which had been brought to the defendant and which the defendant had allocated to 
Mr. Warren to undertake and which Mr. Warren had undertaken in a fraudulent  way. This is a 
case where Mr. Warren (with or without Mr Qureshi)  had designed the fraud himself
Mr. Warren so clearly departed from the scope of his agency that his principal should not be 
liable for his wrongful acts.  He was moonlighting in a very real sense. There  is no connection 
between this transaction  and the business of the defendant.  The acts relied  on cannot 
properly be said to have  been intended to be in any sense for their benefit  or carried  out in the 
course of the agency of Mr. Warren while he was under the direction of the defendant.  It was 
something which he did off his own back for his own purposes
The same  clearly doesnt apply  here as there are no allegations of fraud. There are also other 
significant differences. For example:
Ref: DRN796990729Mr C met Miss S and received advice  from her. Whereas the claimants in Frederick never  met 
with Mr Warren and had been encouraged to invest by someone who wasnt a registered 
individual of Positive  Solutions.
Mr C says his losses directly flow from the advice Miss S gave him on behalf of 
Positive Solutions. Whereas the losses the claimants  suffered in Frederick didnt  flow from the 
re-mortgaging done on behalf of Positive Solutions.  Instead, they happened when the 
claimants handed  the money  over to Mr Warren.
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
As explained  above, Im satisfied that when  Miss S advised  Mr C and arranged his pension transfer  
and investment, she was acting on behalf of Positive Solutions. This means  Positive Solutions is 
subject to the COBS suitability rules in respect of Miss Ss advice. If the advice wasnt suitable, then 
(subject to the recognised defences), Positive Solutions is responsible in damages to Mr C under the 
statutory cause  of action provided by section 150 FSMA.  So Im satisfied that section 150 FSMA  
provides an alternative  route by which Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts complained  of.
my provisional  findings  on merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
the advice Miss S gave
As set out above, Im satisfied that Miss S advised Mr C on transferring  his pension to a SIPP. Its not 
clear to me whether Miss Ss advice extended  to the Harlequin  investment. But even if it didnt, Im 
satisfied it should have.
In 2013 the FSA issued  an alert in relation to Advising on pension  transfers with a view to investing 
pension monies into unregulated products  through a SIPP. Amongst other things, this said:
It has been  brought  to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice  to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs)  that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated  
investments (some of which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes). 
Examples of these unregulated  investments  areoverseas property developments
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration of the 
other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in 
unregulated schemes. It should be particularly  clear  to financial  advisers that, where a 
customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy  the 
customer is contemplating.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds  to invest  in an overseas  
property investment under  a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property  investment 
must form part of the advice  about whether  the customer should  transfer into the SIPP. If, 
taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  product, 
including its underlying holdings, is more  suitable for the customer,  then the SIPP is not 
suitable.
Ref: DRN796990730I acknowledge that this alert was issued  after the events here. But Im satisfied it was simply a 
reminder of existing  obligations and therefore is relevant.
Miss S knew (or should have known)  various  things that were cause for concern here:
Unregulated  third parties had been involved.
Mr C was looking to move his whole  pension provision.
The charges on the SIPP were likely  to be higher than Mr Cs existing pension so its 
performance needed to be much better for Mr C to not lose out.
The SIPP  was just a wrapper so its suitability  was linked to the investments that were going to 
be made within it. And Mr C was planning to invest in Harlequin property.
In the circumstances here, Im satisfied that acting  in Mr Cs best interests would have taken account  
of all of these  things. And would have involved  understanding the Harlequin investment he was 
planning to make. Suitable advice needed to take account of both the pension transfer and the 
proposed investment.
what suitable  advice  would have been
Ive therefore gone on to think about what suitable advice  would have been, based  on what I know 
about Mr Cs circumstances at the time:
An annual income of between £75,000 and £100,000.
Holding no other  pensions other than the one involved here  although his wife had a small 
pension.
Holding shares  in his employer worth approximately £220,000.
Having approximately £20,000 of savings.
Already having exposure to Harlequin property.
Having a planned retirement age of 55 (with a plan to reduce his workload instead if 
retirement wasnt possible  at that point).
In relation to occupational  pension transfers, COBS 19.1.6G set out at the relevant time that:
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should, start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly  demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  that the 
transfer or opt-out  is in the clients best interests.
Taking everything into account, I dont  think  there  was any justification for the transfer in this case.
Mr Cs attitude  to risk wasnt  assessed  at the time of the advice. Despite  having already invested in 
Harlequin and having shares in his employer, I havent  seen anything that would indicate  he was an 
experienced investor  or that he could afford to take significant risk with his pension  provision. Instead, 
the opposite appears to have  been true  he appears to have had limited investment  experience and 
didnt have any other  pensions. And despite the large number of shares he held in his employer,  
these were all in one business.
Ref: DRN796990731Harlequin was unregulated, high risk and speculative. It had no track record and there was a 
possibility the project would fail and his investment would  be lost. Miss S knew (or should have 
known) this. She also knew he already  had exposure  to Harlequin. Positive Solutions says because  
Miss S knew Mr C already  had exposure to Harlequin property, she assumed he already  understood 
the risks involved. I dont  think this was a reasonable assumption.
I therefore  think Miss S should have concluded the pension transfer to the SIPP wasnt suitable  and 
should have told Mr C this in the strongest possible terms. This would have involved explaining that 
the Harlequin  investment was high risk and could involve Mr C losing most  of his pension.
what would Mr C have done if suitable  advice had been given?
Positive Solutions says Mr C had already decided to transfer his pension and invest  in Harlequin at 
the point he was introduced  to Miss S. Its pointed to the fact a reservation fee had been paid; the 
paperwork had been progressed; and two other properties had been purchased by the time Miss S 
became involved. Its also commented on the close relationship between Mr C and the person  who 
introduced him to Harlequin. And its highlighted  Mr Cs financial  experience and said in light of this he 
should be considered an experienced investor.
Ive carefully considered all of these  things. Its possible that even if Miss S had given Mr C suitable  
advice, he would have  chosen to ignore that advice. But in the circumstances here, I dont think he 
would have:
I accept  third parties may also have advised Mr C and have some responsibility for what  
happened. But they werent regulated to give this type of advice   which is why he was 
referred to Miss S. Although he may have had a close relationship to at least  one of those 
third parties and gone to Miss S thinking he was certain what he was going  to do, I think  its 
unlikely he would have  ignored advice  from a regulated adviser  particularly if the reasoning  
had been clearly  explained.
The adjudicator asked Mr C about his financial experience. Although  hes had senior positions 
in financial services organisations, it seems his key responsibilities have been things such  as 
change management. In my opinion,  the roles  hes had dont have any bearing on what he 
would have  done  had he been given  suitable advice. I havent  seen anything  that persuades 
me he had a level of knowledge and understanding  that meant he would  have chosen to 
ignore the advice of a regulated  adviser.
I dont  think things  had gone so far that Mr C wouldnt have turned back. Although he would 
have lost the £1,000  hed paid as a reservation fee for the property in question here, the next 
payment was for £40,500 (with  £1,000 of that to be refunded). This was an entirely  different 
level of commitment and I think Mr C wouldve  been  prepared to lose the £1,000 hed already 
paid to avoid the risk of losing the other £39,500.  Particularly as he already  had exposure to 
Harlequin property.
So, in the circumstances here, Im satisfied that if Miss S had given suitable advice,  Mr C wouldnt  
have transferred his pension to the SIPP  or made the Harlequin investment in question.
fair compensation
My current conclusion  is that a fair outcome would be for Positive  Solutions to put Mr C, as far as 
possible, into the position  he would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Im satisfied its most  
likely he wouldnt have moved his pension if everything had happened as it should  have.
Where I uphold  a complaint  (in full or part), I can make a money award requiring a financial business  
to pay compensation up to a maximum  financial effect  of £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that 
I consider appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend the 
financial business to pay the balance.
Ref: DRN796990732This recommendation wont be part of my determination or award.  It wont bind the financial business. 
Itd be unlikely  that Mr C could accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the balance. He may 
want to consider getting independent advice  before deciding whether to accept my decision.
the specified steps
Positive Solutions should:
Undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance as 
updated by the FCA in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and use the most 
recent financial  assumptions published  at the date of that decision. The value of the Harlequin  
investment should be assumed to be nil. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following  
receipt of notification  of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Positive Solutions may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include  a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account  the impact  of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid 
into one of Mr Cs pension plans. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection  or allowance.
If payment  into a pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should  
be paid directly  to Mr C as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss should  be tax-free and 75% should  
be taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement.
Pay Mr C five years  worth of SIPP fees.  Had Miss S given suitable advice I dont think there 
would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr C continue to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant  be 
closed. Ideally, Positive Solutions should take over the Harlequin investment to allow the 
SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest way of putting  Mr C back into the position he would have 
been in. But as I understand it, the ownership of the Harlequin investment cant  currently be 
transferred. Its likely that will change at some point, but I dont  know when  that will be  there 
are a number  of uncertainties.
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Positive Solutions  pays Mr C an 
upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using  the previous 
years fees) or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This 
should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed.
In return  for this, Positive Solutions  may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking  to give it the net 
amount of any payment  he may receive from the Harlequin investment in that five-year 
period, as well as any other payment he may receive  from any party as a result of the 
investment. That undertaking  should  allow  for the effect  of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive. Positive Solutions will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this 
undertaking. If it asks Mr C to provide  an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded  
by my decision may be dependent upon provision  of that undertaking.
If after five years, Positive Solutions wants to keep the SIPP open,  and to maintain an 
undertaking for any future payments under the Harlequin  investment, it must agree  to pay any 
Ref: DRN796990733further future SIPP fees. If Positive  Solutions fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr C should  then 
have the option of trying to cancel the Harlequin  investment to allow the SIPP to be closed.
Pay Mr C £300 compensation for the stress  and worry hes suffered thinking hed lost a 
significant proportion of his pension  provision.
If everything had happened  as it should have, Im satisfied  that in the circumstances here, Mr C would 
have lost the £1,000 he paid as a deposit for the Harlequin property  in question here. 
Positive Solutions can therefore deduct £1,000 from the compensation  it pays  to Mr C.
If Positive Solutions doesnt  pay the compensation within  90 days of being  informed that Mr C has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added  from the date of my 
decision to the date of payment. But its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment  may 
mean that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period  allowed for settlement  and 
so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive Solutions deducts  income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Positive  Solutions should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Mr Cs Harlequin  investment  was a deposit. There are therefore more parts of the contract  for the 
remaining purchase  price of the property that havent been paid yet. No loss has been suffered  yet for 
these parts of the contract,  so it isnt being compensated for here. But the loss may still occur. If the 
property is completed, Harlequin  could  still require  those payments  to be made. I think  its unlikely 
there will be a further loss. But Mr C needs to understand that this is possible, and he wont be able to 
bring a further  complaint  to us if the contract is called upon.
my provisional  decision
determination and award: Im planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Positive  Solutions 
(Financial Services)  Limited and to require Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited to carry out 
the steps specified  in the fair compensation  section  above  up to a maximum financial effect of 
£150,000, plus any interest.
recommendation: if the financial effect  of the award exceeds  £150,000, Im planning  to recommend 
that Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited  still carry  out in full the steps Ive specified  above.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7969907