K821x#15complaint
Mr K and Miss J are unhappy with Avantia Insurance  Limited.  It sold them  their home  
insurance policy but when they made  a theft claim to their insurer for stolen jewellery it was 
declined because they didnt have the right locks. They  blame Avantia for the decline.
background
Mr K and Miss J arranged cover  for their home  in August 2017 and in October 2017 they 
added cover for their contents. In June  2018, whilst they were away  on holiday they were 
burgled. The thieves  forced the front door to gain entry. Mr K and Miss Js insurer  accepted 
the buildings  claim and fixed the front door. But it wasnt  prepared to settle the contents 
claim. It referred to an endorsement on the policy requiring  the entry/exit doors  to be fitted 
with locks that met a specific British standard. It said the lock on Mr K and Miss Js door was 
not to standard. 
Mr K and Miss J were  upset. They  said they hadnt been told about the need for a specific  
lock. They  didnt recall  any mention  of their locks not being up to standard  and their policy 
recorded the type of locks they have. The insurer said they should  complain to Avantia, 
which had sold them the policy.
Avantia said it had told Mr K and Miss J about  the lock requirement. And it was detailed  in 
their paperwork. Avantia  said it was their responsibility to ensure  the cover  was suitable for 
them.
Mr K and Miss J complained to us and our investigator upheld  their complaint. Having 
listened to the call Mr K had with Avantia, she felt Avantia had misled  Mr K into thinking his 
front door lock was of the standard required by the cover. She felt the conversation meant  
Mr K wouldnt then have been able to realise from the paperwork that there might be a 
problem with his lock, or that he needed to carry out any further checks.  She said Avantia 
should consider  his claim as if it were the insurer and as if the lock requirement had been 
complied with. Our investigator  also told Avantia to pay Mr K and Miss J £250 compensation. 
Avantia said Mr K was told during the call that it doesnt provide advice about the suitability 
of cover.  It said it was up to him to check the documents and they were clear. It only sought 
to capture and record what  locks  he had and hadnt  said they were sufficient for cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the conversation Mr K had with Avantia.  I think  Avantia did mislead  Mr K.
In amongst a lot of other information, there is a brief reference given to locks  needing to 
conform to a particular  British standard. But then the conversation turns  to discussing what  
locks Mr K has in light of what Avantias rep refers  to as the options that are available. 
Seemingly this is because  there are different types  of lock that can hold the British  standard  
in question but some that never  will. Meanwhile  not all of the locks, of a type that might hold 
the standard, do hold it. For example, rim deadlatches  (one of the options listed  by Avantia) 
can hold the British standard. But not all rim deadlatches in use do hold it. Avantias  rep 
never clarifies this.
Ref: DRN79852452I appreciate that Avanita, as standard, doesnt  advise about  suitability of cover.  But I do think  
that here the way the conversation went,  it bordered on advice.  And it certainly ventured  into 
territory where, to avoid  a misunderstanding, advice  or some simple  clarification  at least, 
was needed. All the rep had to say was, for example, great, you have this type of lock  just 
make sure your actual lock is a British standard one. Instead what was actually said was:
I just wanted to make  sure [what lock you have]..because  its best to have the locks  
correct and what they are supposed to be.
So this reassured  Mr K that hed told Avantia what locks he had and that they were ok. He 
seems not to have  recalled being  told about the British standard. But I think  thats 
understandable. As I said, this was only mentioned briefly at the start of the call before the 
specific locks Mr K had were discussed, and before the assurance was given. 
The policy documents do include the applicable  endorsements at page five. This includes 
the lock requirement.  This is before detail is given of the lock type Mr K had. Mr K has said 
he doesnt recall  having  seen this in the paperwork. But if he had, given the endorsement  
only refers to the British  standard, and given Avantia had told him there were three options 
for lock types and he had had one of them,  I dont think the content  of the paperwork would 
have alerted him to the fact his lock might  not be suitable.
Avantia misled Mr K and Miss J into thinking  their locks were  suitable. Im satisfied that if this 
misleading advice  hadnt been  received  Mr K and Miss J would have checked their lock and 
either changed it or found a policy that didnt require them to have specific  locks. Either way 
I think they would have been  covered for the burglary that occurred in June 2018. It isnt fair 
or reasonable for them  to lose out because of Avantias  error.  
Therefore, Avantia will now have to act as the insurer and consider the claim for stolen  
contents items. Its likely   given the loss includes jewellery items  that any insurer  would 
have appointed a loss adjuster to assess  the claim and possibly other experts too such as 
jewellery specialist.  The terms of the policy in place can be used to assess  the claim, but on 
the basis that the lock requirement  was met or that it doesnt apply.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr K and Miss J to have their claim declined by the insurer 
on the basis of the lock endorsement. Im satisfied  that Avantia  should also pay them  £250  
compensation to make  up for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Avantia  Insurance Limited to consider the claim for theft, as 
the insurer would have done,  without  reference  to the lock endorsement. I also require it to 
pay £250 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985245