K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
In 1997, Mr B took out a credit card with Lloyds  (trading at the time as TSB). His earliest  
available credit card statement, in 2000, shows that he was paying for PPI. So the policy 
was sold some time between 1997 and 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Mr B doesnt 
remember choosing PPI, which I think is also understandable either  way, given just how long 
ago the sale was, and since buying insurance  is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully 
about whats most likely  to have happened  based on the information I have.
Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Lloyds misled Mr B in his sale,  nor have I seen 
any wider problems with their sales process  from the time period. From  what  Ive seen of 
Lloyds sales process from the time, they wouldve given Mr B a choice about whether hed 
like PPI, and only set it up if he actively chose  it. So I think  its most likely that Lloyds made  
Mr B aware he had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B or not. There requirements  were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr B Ive assumed they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the PPI was right for him. And based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the policy. While  Mr B had some benefits  through work, the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of those,  and offered him more comprehensive  cover   especially 
when his benefits reduced to just half pay. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for 
Mr B if he was off sick or lost his job.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr B about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions  or limitations,  and it could have been useful for Mr B if something went 
wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis,  so Mr B could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about  the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN72131722my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7213172