K820x#14complaint
Mr F is complaining about irresponsible lending by Vanquis Bank  Limited.
background
Mr F doesnt think Vanquis should  have increased his credit  limit. Mr F wants  a refund on the 
interest and late payments hes incurred. He also wants arrangement markers removed from 
his credit file.
Vanquis didnt  uphold the complaint. So the matter was referred to our service. An 
adjudicator has already  looked at this case. She didnt  uphold the complaint either  and felt 
overall that Vanquis had acted fairly. As Mr F remains unhappy with this view,  the case  has 
now been referred to me for consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis offered  to increase  Mr Fs credit facility around June 2015. Notice  of this proposed 
credit limit was sent to Mr F giving him the option to opt out. But Mr F didnt choose to do this 
and therefore  the credit limit increase took place. Im satisfied  Vanquis  gave Mr F reasonable 
notice to refuse this credit  limit increase. 
Im also satisfied that Vanquis carried out appropriate checks prior to doing  this, in light of 
the amount of credit being granted.  According  to Vanquis,  in the 3 months  prior to the credit 
limit increase happening, Mr F had made his payments on time and in fact was paying  more 
than the minimum payments Vanquis was requesting. I can see why Vanquis felt Mr F 
wasnt experiencing any financial difficulties at this time. I dont think  there was anything  to 
suggest Mr F couldnt afford the credit  limit increase. And so I dont think Vanquis has acted 
irresponsibly. 
Just like the adjudicator  has already explained,  it appears Mr F was able to afford  the credit 
limit increase when  it happened.  However it seems his personal circumstances subsequently 
changed, which affected his ability to meet his financial commitments.  As I understand Mr F 
experienced a reduction in his income around  early  2016. 
Upon looking at all the evidence Im unable to say that Vanquis  has acted irresponsibly. 
I think how Vanquis has handled this case has been fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7892972