K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Aviva Insurance  Limited service  in connection with 
their motor insurance policies over a number of years.
As Mr M has taken the lead in dealing with this complaint, for ease, where I refer to his 
comments and actions  they should  be read as being in respect  of both himself  and Mrs M.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a campervan which was insured by Aviva.  In 2018 the broker that 
administered the policy told Mr M that Aviva  no longer wished to insure  him for the 
campervan.
Mr M complained about that and a number  of aspects of Avivas service over the previous 
years. Aviva  acknowledged that some of its service hadnt been up to the standard it would  
hope to provide. So it offered Mr M £250 compensation in total for the impact of that.
Mr M didnt  think  that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. I issued  an initial  
provisional decision on 12 February 2020.  I don't intend to repeat all my initial provisional 
findings here. Instead I will summarise the key points that are still of issue  to my current  
findings. 
I said that Aviva was entitled to decide for itself who it offered policies to. So I didn't think  it 
had done anything wrong in refusing to insure Mr M for his campervan.
Concerning how Aviva had settled  Mr Ms claim in 2015 for the total loss of his campervan I 
noted that there were two key sections  of Mr Ms policy that set out what  it would pay in 
those circumstances.  The first said that any settlement was limited  to the value Mr M had put 
on his van when he bought the policy, which I said was £40,000.
I added that the policy  also had a new vehicle replacement (NVR) term, which  meant that if 
certain conditions  were met, Aviva could replace the van with a new one. I said that Aviva 
initially settled Mr Ms claim for £40,000. But it later agreed with Mr M to increase this by 
£6,732 - to £46,732 in total - to settle  his claim. But Mr M later told us that the settlement 
wasn't enough and Aviva should increase it.
I said Id noted  that Mr Ms circumstances  didn't  qualify him for a NVR. That was because in 
order to qualify for the NVR, such a replacement  campervan would need  to be available.  But 
Mr Ms van was a bespoke conversion  and the original van that was converted is no longer  
made; so Aviva couldnt replace it with a like-for-like model as one wasnt  available.  Also the 
policy said that in order to qualify for a new vehicle then the cost of repairs  would need to be 
more than 70% of the vans value. And that wasn't  the case for Mr Ms van.
So I said that I didn't  think  Mr M qualified  for a NVR under the terms of the policy.  I noted  
that it was Mr M himself  who proposed a settlement figure of £46,732. And thats what  Aviva  
paid him. I said that wasn't something  it had to do under the terms of the policy. So I didn't 
think it was fair to instruct Aviva to increase  its settlement.
I then addressed Mr Ms complaint that Aviva had shared his information  with another 
individual who shared his name. I pointed out that it wasn't for me to determine  whether 
Ref: DRN76828232theres been any breach of data protection rules, as that would be a matter  for the 
Information commissioners office  (ICO).
I said that Aviva had acknowledged that it had mistakenly said that Mr M had been in an 
accident that didn't involve him. Mr M had told us that Aviva had given him the phone  
number of his namesake  and hed spoken with that individual. Mr M also told us hed 
recorded the call but could no longer find that recording. Aviva denied  ever phoning the other  
Mr M. It said it had no reason to ring him. I said that while it wasn't helpful that Aviva had 
given Mr M information about a claim that didn't relate to him I hadn't  seen compelling 
evidence that it had rung Mr Ms namesake. 
Mr M made many detailed points in response  to my initial provisional decision.  Importantly  
hed found the recording of his conversation  with his namesake and the call with Aviva  when 
one of its staff gave him his namesakes  phone  number.  And she said shed tried to ring     
Mr M on that number. So I reviewed my findings and issued a second provisional  decision 
which I've summarised  below.
I explained the process I follow  in order to come to a conclusion where I have conflicting 
evidence. That is I weigh  what  evidence I have  in front of me in order  to decide  what  I think 
is more likely than not to have happened. And that a finding that I believe one account is 
more likely to be accurate than another isnt an accusation of dishonesty  against those 
presenting the counter argument.
I said that its often the case, particularly where events have transpired over years and there  
are many hundreds of documents, that something that has happened  can be missed by a 
consumer or a business. But that doesn't mean that such  an omission is deliberate  or that 
the people concerned are hiding,  obscuring  evidence or being deliberately deceitful.
 
I said that Mr M had provided irrefutable evidence, by way of the call recording,  that Aviva  
had contacted his namesake. So I said he was entirely justified in his complaint that Aviva  
had contacted someone else about  his concerns. I said there was little evidence that Aviva 
shared Mr Ms personal details with his namesake  or discussed his concerns  in any detail. 
But I understood that this was a cause  of worry for him. I said that Aviva  had consistently  
denied ever contacting Mr Ms namesake. But the staff member who read out the other 
Mr Ms number  knew shed  rang the wrong number, so Aviva should  have had a record of 
that and could have responded accurately to Mr Ms concerns  about  it. But it didn't do so. So 
to address the distress and inconvenience  that had caused Mr M I said it should increase the 
compensation payable to him by £250  to £500 in total.
In response to Mr Ms belief that our service  should raise data protection issues  directly with 
the ICO I said thats not something that we do. But that Mr M could put the matter to the ICO 
himself.
On the issue of how Aviva settled  the 2015  claim.  I pointed out that Mr M had quoted some 
policy wording but that was for a different policy and not the one that applied  to his 
campervan. I said that the correct policy was a sum assured policy that had a maximum 
settlement of the valuation placed on the policy when  Mr M took it out, which was £40,000. I 
said that the NVR section of the policy wasnt any sort of bolt-on or addition  to the policy  
but was part of its terms and conditions if certain criteria were  met. 
Ref: DRN76828233Mr M had concerns about the sale of the policy. I said that as Aviva didn't  sell the policy,  a 
broker did, any concerns  Mr M had about the sale would need  to be put directly  to the broker 
as Aviva wasn't responsible for the policys sale.
I again noted that Aviva had settled the claim for £6,732 more than the sum Mr M was 
entitled to under the policys terms. I said that if Mr M hadn't been happy  with that he could 
have pursued the matter  at the time. I said he could have accepted an interim  settlement 
while continuing to dispute the valuation. But he didn't do that he said he was satisfied with 
the £46,732 offer. And I said I didn't  think it was reasonable that years later hes now said 
the amount wasn't suitable. So I said I don't think it was fair to make  Aviva pay any more. 
In response to some points Mr M had made about  the evidence  Id considered I said that Id 
considered everything  on file before  issuing  my provisional decision. I clarified whether or 
not Id considered some specific pieces of evidence  including  confirming that I hadn't  
listened to a certain call between  Mr M and our investigator but that I didn't think I needed to 
in order to come go a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
developments
Owing to the ongoing  Covid 19 crisis Aviva  told us that its office was temporarily closed and 
it asked of an extension  to respond to my second provisional decision.  Having granted  that 
extension Aviva accepted my second  provisional  decision.
Mr M didn't accept my second provisional  decision. He made many detailed  points spanning 
some 17 pages. I don't  intend to summarise  all of those  points  here and a number of his 
points repeat issues I had already considered and addressed in my earlier  provisional  
decisions. But I will refer to the key points which I see as being relevant to my final decision.
Amongst other things Mr M said that the broker had misinformed him and that Aviva had lied 
to him. He said that I had gone to great lengths  to mitigate their actions. But that I hadn't 
identified a theme of repeated dishonesty. He asked me to clarify at what  point Id 
considered the evidence.
Mr M repeated that Aviva had told us that Mr Ms policy didn't include a NVR section. But 
that he had provided  evidence  that it did and that our investigator had then discovered the 
dishonesty displayed by Aviva, I dont think a reasonable person  would  consider  deceitful as 
an inappropriate adjective.
Mr M has again questioned how I arrived at my findings and asked if anything within the 
evidence I've considered demonstrates a shred of dishonesty in anything hes said.  And 
asked me to explain the points I considered in arriving at a balance  of probabilities decision. 
And he thinks I've treated  Avivas evidence more favourably than his. He said Id considered 
Avivas integrity as being absolute  when in fact it had sat on the evidence.
Mr M said that the evidence shows that Aviva made more than one phone  call to Mr Ms 
namesake. And he says I've ignored other evidence. He didn't accept my explanation in my 
second provisional decision that a finding that I preferred one set of evidence  to another  
doesn't imply  deliberate dishonesty but can be the result of skewed memory. In particular he 
was clearly unhappy with my conclusion, in my initial provisional decision, that Aviva didn't 
make phone calls to his namesake. 
Ref: DRN76828234Mr M said Aviva repeatedly told our investigator that Mr Ms policy didn't include a NVR term. 
That it was sitting on evidence and that it had manipulated our investigator into her initial 
conclusions. He said the evidence is overwhelming that Aviva has withheld  evidence, lied 
and attempted  to pervert justice.  He again  implied that I should raise this matter directly with 
the ICO.
Also with respect to Aviva phoning Mr Ms namesake he suggested that my wording, where I 
said: Aviva should have  had a record of that and could have responded accurately to 
Mr Ms concerns about it. But it didnt  do so. should have read: Aviva did have a record of 
that and SHOULD have responded accurately. He said there shouldn't be any suggestion  
that Aviva  wasn't aware of this. 
Turning to my suggest that Mr M could have accepted Avivas claim settlement offer on an 
interim basis in 2015, hes asked  how he was expected to know  that. And hes asked  a 
series of questions concerning Aviva's  decision to settle the claim as it did. And also about  
my own personal experience. Those  include whether or not I had read the policy wording 
applicable to his campervan at the time. He said I made no reference to it in my provisional 
decisions.   
Mr M explained that he quoted the wrong  policy wording after searching  for it on the internet. 
He asked that we provide the actual wording so that he can understand what it means.
Mr M has also referred to the relationship between Aviva and the broker  that sold him the 
policy. He commented  that I was happy  to treat himself and his wife as a single entity for 
the purposes of this complaint but have treated Aviva and the broker  differently. Mr Ms said 
that he referred to the brokers actions early on. He also told us that he wasn't  asked the 
value of his campervan but instead what he paid for it.
Mr Ms asked  me to instruct  Aviva to send him a document referred to as "I do not wish you 
to arrange replacement  that I confirmed in my second provisional decision that I haven't  had 
sight of. 
Mr M says that in a series of calls in 2015 Aviva  told him that he wasn't entitled to a NVR. 
And he only agreed to the settlement of £47,000  on the basis  of that deception.  He said he 
hadn't complained earlier about the settlement as he wasn't  aware of the internal 
communication at Aviva.
my findings
I've again  considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to change 
the findings from my second provisional  decision.  
As I've indicated  above, Mr Ms made many points. And its clear  that he remains unhappy  
with my conclusions. But I don't intend  to repeat every point hes made  or address each of 
those. Instead  I will focus on the key points that are relevant to the reasons for my final 
decision and which I haven't addressed previously.
Im aware that Mr M thinks its unfair  that we allowed Aviva more  time to respond  to my 
second provisional decision. But Aviva  explained  this was necessary because  its office  was 
closed in response to the Covid 19 crisis and it had a limited number of staff available. In the 
Ref: DRN76828235unprecedented circumstances of the Covid 19 crisis,  I think  allowing it more  time to reply  
was the fair thing  to do.
Mr M said that Id gone to great lengths  to mitigate  for Avivas actions. I did no such  thing. 
We are an impartial service and I had nothing to gain from either upholding or not upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. There is certainly no reason for me to take action to mitigate  any 
wrongdoing on Avivas  behalf. Instead  I simply explained how I came to my conclusions  and 
that included that the fact that Aviva got things  wrong doesn't necessarily mean  it was being 
deliberately deceitful. If I had come to that conclusion  I would  have said so. Its apparent that 
Mr M doesn't  agree with me. But he hasn't persuaded  me to change  my findings.
I also want to be clear  that I considered every piece of evidence  that we had on file prior to 
coming to my initial provisional  decision. I then considered  the additional evidence that Mr M 
supplied which caused me to amend my findings and issue a second provisional decision. 
Its clear that Mr M remains unhappy that I didnt accept his version  of events prior to my 
initial provisional decision. Ill point out that before I came to my initial provisional decision  
Mr M had told us that Aviva had given his namesakes phone number to him and he had a 
recording of the call with his namesake. I asked Mr M to provide that evidence before 
coming to my initial provisional  decision. And if Mr M had provided that evidence then I 
would have found in his favour from the outset. But Mr M didn't provide that evidence until 
after Id issued my initial  provisional decision.  And Aviva had told us it had no cause to ring 
the other Mr M. And Id seen no evidence  on Aviva's file of it ringing Mr M's namesake nor of 
it giving  his phone number to Mr M. So Aviva's  evidence seemed plausible  at the time. I also 
want to be clear that I haven't at any point  accused or suggested that there's evidence  that 
Mr M has been dishonest.  But as I explained  in my second provisional decision I had to 
weigh the evidence and come to a balance of probabilities  decision,  and thats  what  I did.
Mr M has continued to maintain that Aviva  was being deliberately deceitful  in telling our 
investigator that Mr Ms policy didn't include a NVR term.  But if that's the case then I don't 
think Aviva  would have  previously sent us policy documents which  quite clearly show  that 
the policy does  have a NVR term. So while it certainly wasnt helpful that Aviva plainly hadn't  
reviewed the policy  wording when responding to our investigators queries, it had already 
provided us with evidence that showed  its response  was inaccurate.  This wasn't  information  
that it had sat on or only came to light after Mr M provided us with evidence of the NVR  
term. We already held it on file and could have concluded that the term was in Mr Ms policy  
without making any enquiries  of Aviva.  And if Aviva had planned on being  deliberately  
deceitful then I don't think it would have sent us the policy wording that contradicted a point 
where it was trying  to mislead us. 
Similarly, Mr M quoted wording from an Aviva  policy  he found online but presented  this as 
being the wording appropriate to his claim. I accept his explanation for why this happened 
and that this wasnt a deliberate attempt to mislead.  And as I indicated in my second 
provisional decision both businesses and consumers can make mistakes, overlook or 
misconstrue evidence, when presenting  their case. And Im satisfied thats what  happened 
here. Similarly I don't think  Avivas  mistake in saying  that Mr Ms policy didn't have a NVR 
term was any more  calculated or deceitful than Mr Ms mistake  in quoting  from a policy  
wording that didn't apply to his circumstances.  
Turning to Avivas calls with Mr Ms namesake. Prior to coming  to my second  provisional 
decision I asked Aviva for details of the calls it had made to that number. But it could only 
provide very limited evidence. Its certainly  possible  that, as well as leaving voicemails 
asking for a call back, on more than one occasion  it spoke with the other Mr M. As indicated 
Ref: DRN76828236above Mr Ms suggested my wording  on that point was inaccurate. But I disagree. There  was 
no evidence on file that Id seen that Avivas staff member  had recorded  on file that shed 
spoken with Mr Ms namesake. Instead the staff member concerned said the evidence is 
limited to one note that she rang Mr M but the person  she spoke with said it was the wrong 
number. So I hadn't seen  evidence on Avivas file that it was aware  that it had spoken to 
someone sharing  Mr Ms name. The evidence is simply  that it had the wrong  number. 
It might also help if I explain that when calling consumers insurers are required to go through  
whats known as caller  verification  procedures. Those procedures  are to ensure  that they are 
speaking to the right person. And given that Mr Ms namesake had no notion  of who Mr M 
was or his involvement  with Aviva, he wouldn't have been able to provide  the appropriate 
verification, which  would explain why Aviva simply  recorded  that it had the wrong number.  
But after it spoke to Mr M and he pointed out that the number Aviva had dialled wasnt his, it 
should have made a record on the file that it had previously held the wrong number and 
attempted to talk to someone on that number and then read that number out to Mr M. If that 
had happened  it might have been  in a better position to respond to Mr Ms complaint. But it 
didn't do so.
Mr M has asked  me to contact Aviva to send him a document referred to in an email. I told 
Mr M that I haven't seen that document. And I understand  that Mr M has previously made a 
subject access request (SAR) for Aviva to release relevant documents  to him. So if Aviva still 
has that document it should have sent it to him. But I don't think its appropriate for me to get 
involved in any dispute Mr M might have about Aviva's response to his SAR. Mr M has again 
suggested that we raise  a complaint with the ICO on his behalf. But as I've said previously 
that's not something that we will do. And Mr M can take this action if he feels that Aviva 
hasn't processed  his data fairly  or not responded adequately to his SAR.
I said in my second provisional decision  that Mr M didn't complain about  Aviva's  settlement 
of his claim in 2015. Mr Ms said that was because he was unaware of Avivas  
communications at that time. As I said in my provisional decision its apparent  that there was 
some debate within Aviva concerning how it should settle Mr Ms claim.  On the one hand its 
staff noted that Mr Ms policy did include the NVR  term but others  said it didn't think that it 
was appropriate  to settle the claim on those terms. And as I said in my initial provisional 
decision Mr Ms circumstances didnt meet all the required criteria to qualify for the NVR. 
Thats because an identical model was unavailable and the costs  for repair  were  below  the 
70% threshold required to qualify  for the own vehicle replacement. So I can understand why 
Aviva initially  said that it would limit its pay out to the £40,000 valuation limit.
I also pointed out that Mr M could  have accepted Avivas  offer of £46,732 on an interim 
basis. I appreciate that Mr M wouldn't  have been aware of the prospect of an interim 
settlement. But its fairly common  in the motor insurance industry for policyholders to dispute 
the insurers valuation  of total loss settlements. And insurers will usually deal with such  a 
dispute through their complaint process with the ultimate option of brining that dispute to this 
office if the consumer  remains unhappy.  And as those  disputes can take months if not years 
to conclude, its common for insurers to settle such claims  on an interim basis pending the 
outcome of the complaint.  So thats  not something  Mr M would need to have been  aware  of. 
Its something I would  have expected to happen had Mr M continued to dispute the 
settlement at the time it was offered.  But he didn't do that.
In this case Aviva settled the claim for an amount that Mr M himself said was acceptable. 
And as Mr M didn't meet  all the criteria for the NVR  term to apply that sum was more than it 
Ref: DRN76828237was required to settle the claim for. So I don't think it settled  the claim unfairly regardless of 
whether or not Mr M was aware of Avivas  internal  communication at that time. 
Mr Ms said that when he took out the policy he wasnt asked for the vans value but instead 
what it cost. That might be the case.  But after he bought the policy  Aviva  sent Mr M the 
policy schedule and statement of fact. Both of those said that the van was valued  at 
£40,000. And the documents  say that if Mr M thought any information  contained  on those 
documents was incorrect then he should let Aviva  know. But he didn't do so. So I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to refer to the £40,000 as being the valuation  that it had on its records.  
Mr Ms asked  if I've seen  the policy booklet  applicable at the time of his claim and said that I 
hadn't referred to it in my provisional decisions. But I referred  to the booklet in my second 
paragraph of my second provisional decision under the heading of how  Aviva settled the 
claim in 2015. And I quoted the policy wording. So not only had I seen it but I quoted it. 
However, I've asked  our investigator  to send Mr M a copy  of that booklet.  
Mr M has also occasionally referred  to the actions of the broker which sold him the policy.  
But as I explained  in my second provisional  decision the broker  is an entirely separate  
business from Aviva. Broker and insurer carry out different  functions  and have  different 
regulatory obligations. So, Aviva isn't responsible for the brokers actions.  I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs M are different people but they are both named on the policies concerned.  And 
as such this complaint  is brought jointly from both of them as policyholders.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Aviva  Insurance 
Limited to increase the compensation payable to Mr M by £250  to bring it to £500 in total. It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs M have accepted 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Aviva considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should  also give them  a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7682823