K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about damage  charges that Volkswagen Financial services (UK) Limited  
(trading as Skoda Finance) asked him to pay after he ended  a hire purchase  agreement.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 June  2019. A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. Mr L has nothing  further  
to add and Skoda Finance hasnt  objected to my provisional conclusions. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The parties have  not supplied any additional  evidence or information and I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.  For the reasons Ive given,  I am not persuaded there 
are fair and reasonable grounds  to uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76369892copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  about damage  charges  that Volkswagen  Financial  services  (UK) Limited  (trading as 
Skoda Finance)  asked him to pay after he ended a hire purchase  agreement. 
 
background
Mr L got this car in 2015. He ended the hire purchase agreement (HPA) by way of a process known 
as voluntary termination (VT) in March 2018. Skoda Finance arranged for a third party BCA to collect 
the car and inspect it. The inspection  took place  at the end of May 2018  and Skoda  Finance sent Mr L 
a bill for damage totalling £360.02 (plus  VAT).  
Mr L complained  that he didnt know what this invoice  for at first. He thinks  BCA took too long to pick 
up and inspect  the car and hes unhappy with the customer service  Skoda Finance provided. He feels 
the charges are unreasonable and he wants Skoda Finance to remove them.
Skoda Finance says the charges (excluding VAT) are for
a dent to the left hand  front door outside of acceptable wear and tear - £138
a chip to the windscreen within the drivers sightline beyond repair  meaning the full 
windscreen had to be replaced  - £195
a blend required  to the left hand rear door - £27.
Skoda Finance accepts  the third item isnt clear in photos taken at the time and reduced the charges 
by £27 but it considers the remaining charges are justified.  
Our investigator looked at industry guidance provided by the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) guidance. Shes satisfied, from photographs taken at the time,  that there is a 
chip to the front windscreen and a dent to the left hand door.  Mr L acknowledged the windscreen chip 
was present when the car went back so she thinks it is fair he should pay for that.
She notes  the BVRLA guidance says Skoda Finance should have told Mr L about  any charges  within 
four weeks of the car being returned. There was a delay  of nearly two months between the time Mr L 
left the car at the dealership and collection. Our investigator  accepts BCA tried to contact him to 
arrange to pick the car up during that time. But she doesnt  see why BCA needed to speak to Mr L - 
when hed already told Skoda Finance  hed left the car at the dealership and provided the relevant 
phone number. 
She thinks it would have  been reasonable for BCA to contact  the dealership direct in this situation.  
She says the fact that it didnt prolonged the time the car was left with the dealer,  which increased the 
chances the car would be damaged - and the likelihood is the car was dented after Mr L dropped it 
off. She recommends Skoda Finance should  waive  the charge of £138.  
Skoda Finance asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It says (in summary) 
Mr L was sent information about  collection  and inspection that explained BCA would be in 
touch to make arrangements and hed have the opportunity to be present  at the inspection 
and arrange any repair work if he wanted to;
Mr L put his personal mobile number down as a contact on the form he returned. He provided 
an alternative number for the dealership  but didnt specify that BCA should  collect the car 
from there; 
BCA tried to speak to Mr L twice  without  success; before it was able to make arrangements 
for the car to be collected and the invoice was issued  ten days  later - which is within  the 4 
weeks set out in the guidance;
Mr L remained  liable for the vehicle until collection - it was his choice to leave it at the 
dealership; and 
Ref: DRN76369893the dent is evident across the swage  line of the left hand front door and is properly  chargeable 
under the BVRLA  guidance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
Where the parties disagree  about what happened I have made my provisional findings  on the balance 
of probabilities  - in other words, what I think is most likely based on the evidence I have seen  and the 
wider circumstances.  
I understand Mr L feels strongly about what happened  here. I have no doubt  it was frustrating  to 
receive an invoice for damages so long after, as far as he was concerned, this car had been returned. 
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement Mr L signed. Im satisfied  this says he agreed to return  this 
car in good condition and any damage beyond fair wear  and tear is his responsibility. Ive also 
considered the relevant  BVRLA guidance and the inspection report dated 31 May 2018.  
Im satisfied that the damage Skoda Finance wants to charge for - the windscreen  and a dent in one 
door - seems  to be present. And I think this goes  beyond whats considered  fair wear and tear under 
BVRLA guidelines.  Mr L accepts  the windscreen chip was there when he dropped  the car off at the 
dealership. I agree with our investigator it is fair he should pay for that. And Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest the amount charged is unreasonable.
Mr L doesnt think  the door was dented  when  he left the car - he says this must  have happened  after it 
was dropped  off. Our investigator thinks this is probably right - meaning the damage resulted  from 
delay on the part of BCA - the collection agent that Skoda Finance appointed - so its not fair to hold 
Mr L liable. 
I accept collecting this car took longer than it should have.  But, Im not persuaded this means  Mr L 
shouldnt have to pay for the dent in the door. I cant be certain when this damage occurred. But, I am 
satisfied that Mr L remained responsible for the car until it was collected by Skoda Finance  under the 
terms of the HPA. 
Customer contact notes  Skoda Finance supplied say Mr L was reminded about this during a phone 
call on 21 March 2018.  And I can see the VT paperwork Skoda  Finance sent Mr L shortly after says 
The responsibility of your vehicle remains with you, until the point BCA has collected the vehicle, 
following inspection.  It is important you keep the vehicle insured (fully comprehensive)  with valid road 
tax and MOT up until the time that the vehicle
is collected
As I understand it, Mr L decided  to leave  this car at the dealership when he got a new car. Mr L says 
hed done the same thing  in the past and there was no problem. I appreciate this was probably  
convenient for him. But, Ive seen nothing to show that Skoda Finance  agreed that the dealer would 
accept the car on its behalf - or that Mr L would  no longer be responsible for the car after he left it at 
the dealership.  
I cant  be sure when  the door was dented. If this happened while the car was at the dealership Mr L 
may have some cause  of action against the dealer - depending on what  they agreed.  But Im afraid 
thats outside of my remit here. 
From the evidence  Ive got at the moment, Im satisfied the damage charged for was present when  
the car was collected. I think it exceeds  fair wear  and tear under  the BVRLA guidelines. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the cost of repairs  is unreasonable. So, on the current  evidence,  I am not 
Ref: DRN76369894persuaded it would be fair to require  Skoda Finance to remove or reduce the charges  of £333.02 (plus  
VAT), or do anything further in response to this complaint. 
I realise this provisional decision is likely to disappoint Mr L. This is not my final decision. I invite both 
parties to consider what Ive said and let me have any further evidence or comments  by the date 
below. After  that Ill look at everything again and make my final decision.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 21 July 2019,  my provisional 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN7636989