K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc behaved when he tried to make  
transfers from his current account to a third party company.
background 
Mr F knew he was going to have a large  sum of money coming  into in his current account. 
He also knew that he would be transferring some of it to his account with a third party  
company soon after it came into his current account.  He anticipated that this pattern of 
behaviour might trigger NatWests security  systems  to stop the payments. In an attempt to 
head this off he told NatWest that was what he was going to do in advance. He was told at 
this point that NatWests  fraud department might still block  the payment when it came  to it. 
But he was also told if this happened he should contact it so the issue  could be sorted out. 
The money came into his current account and he tried to make  his transfers. Things  started 
to go wrong from Mr Fs perspective from this point onwards. He called NatWest a number  of 
times. At first he was told by NatWest he could  use his digital  banking  services with it to 
make the transfers  then he was told he couldnt. 
The problem was that a few days before the money  had come  into his current  account he 
had been locked out of his digital banking services  for failing security  procedures. Eventually 
he made the payments by other (non digital)  means. But in the meantime he had several 
further telephone conversations with several  members of staff at NatWest. NatWest  has 
been able to provide recordings of some, but not all, of the calls. 
By this time Mr F was rather frustrated and complained.  NatWest  looked into this. Mr F 
wanted it to trace and listen to all the calls so it could get the fullest possible picture of what  
hed experienced. NatWest explained it could not find all the calls. But it said it didnt need  to 
because even based on what it had and Mr Fs account of events, it agreed that the 
customer service  it had provided was not always up to par.  
It initially offered Mr F £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  it accepted  it had 
caused him. At first it put the £50 into his account. Mr F objected  to it putting this money  into 
his account without his consent. In response  NatWest withdrew the £50. During a telephone 
call with him it recognised  £50 didnt go far enough.  NatWest says it offered him £200 
instead. Mr F says it offered him £250.
NatWest however, did not agree  that it had made a mistake regarding Mr F being unable to 
use his digital banking  services. It had offered more than once to reregister him so he could 
use these services at the time but he had declined.
Dissatisfied, Mr F came  to our service.  He reiterated  his earlier  complaint points and added 
that NatWest had offered him £250  not £200  then backtracked and gave incorrect 
information on this point.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint. He agreed that NatWest did make some  
mistakes it should have been clearer  with Mr F about his ability  to use digital services when 
he called  about  the transfers. Although he also pointed out that when Mr F had originally 
been locked out of his digital services it is likely this was flagged to him at the time. 
Ref: DRN73511012Our investigator concluded that it was reasonable to expect Mr F to take action to lessen the 
impact of NatWests mistake on him. But instead he had continued to try and use the digital 
services even after he knew he couldnt.  
In all of the circumstances he thought the £200  Mr F been offered went  far enough to cover  
the distress and inconvenience  Mr F most  likely experienced due to NatWests  mistakes.
Our investigator concluded that there appeared to be an element of Mr F wanting to punish  
NatWest for the perceived shortcomings of one of its staff members. Our investigator made it 
clear that is not our role. 
Our investigator also didnt think it was wrong  for NatWest to have put the £50 into Mr Fs 
account as NatWests intention had been  to make  sure he didnt lose out. On balance, he 
didnt agree £250 had ever been  offered.
Mr F rejected these conclusions very strongly.  In summary he responded repeating  his 
previous points. He then underlined why he thought £200 was not enough and why he 
thought he had been offered £250.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the correct outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Further I take on board that during the course of this complaint Mr F has had several  very 
distressing medical  conditions. Im sorry to hear about this. I can well understand that he has 
better things  to do with his time than focus on this complaint; He has suggested sometimes  
trying to get a resolution of his complaint makes  him feel like he works for NatWest. It is 
clear he has strong feelings  about  his complaint.
However, and I hope this does not upset  Mr F any further, that is far from my intention, but I 
am not intending  to uphold his complaint here is why.
Both parties  agree that Mr F did not always get the level of customer service  that he was 
entitled to expect. This was unfortunate. The question I have got to look at here is has 
NatWest offered enough money for the impact  this complaint has had on Mr F?
Mr F wanted to carry out some everyday banking transactions. I can well understand his 
sense of frustration  disbelief and dismay that things went so wrong from his point of view.
There is no disagreement that in some of the phone calls with NatWest  he was given  the 
wrong information. And that is not the whole story. Mr F tells us these phone calls took many  
hours. Some of the time was spent waiting in long queues to speak to a member  of staff. 
Ref: DRN73511013Some of the time was spent on the calls,  other  times he was on hold. To make matters  
worse, his medical conditions were  causing  him great discomfort. Plus some  of the 
conversations he had were far from ideal. For example  on occasion he was talked over, or 
the phone  was put down  on him, he thinks deliberately,  or he wasnt  listened to. NatWest  
has recordings of some, but not all, of the calls.
I have listened  to the calls that we have. But since NatWest already accepted that it had let 
Mr F down  in some of those calls I dont think it has weakened Mr Fs complaint that we 
dont have all the calls. The point is not in dispute, as I have already said. Mr F suggests 
unless all the calls are listened to the full extent of what he went  through  cant be 
understood. I disagree. We do have information about the impact on him of the missing calls 
we have it directly from him and we can rely on that.
It is also clear  that Mr F continued to try and use his digital  banking services with NatWest 
even after he was told he couldnt without reregistering. Both parties agree that NatWest 
offered to help him reregister so he could complete his transactions  he declined.  These were 
his choices to make but I cant see how he had any reasonable expectation that he was 
going to get a different  result once he knew the correct situation.
Further I think it is likely he was notified  that he was locked out of his digital banking  even 
before he tried to make the transfers. NatWests records, which  I have no reason to doubt,  
on this point, show that this happened  several  days before the transfers.   That being so I 
think he ought reasonably to have known he was not going to be able to use his digital 
banking for these transfers and couldve made  alternative arrangements instead of making 
all these calls.
From some of the comments Mr F has made  in the calls it appears he objects to the 
shrinking of NatWests branch network.  It seems  he would prefer  face to face banking  this in 
part seems  to have  coloured his decision  to complain. Ironically from the information Ive got, 
it seems he might have been  able to do his transactions in a branch. However,  that wasnt  
practical as he said all the nearby branches  had now closed. 
Mr F also seems  to be unhappy with one member of NatWests staff more than any other 
and wants, it appears, action taken against this person. Whilst I recognise Mr F may not 
agree with NatWests  commercial decision to close branches,  I cant  tell it to do otherwise. 
Neither can I fine or punish it. Nor can I make  an award as a way of disciplining  a particular 
member of NatWests staff.
Mr F found it objectionable that NatWest put the £50 into his account  without  telling him. 
NatWest explained  it did this because once it realised it had made a mistake and caused  
him distress and inconvenience  as a result,  the correct thing to do, in its view,  was to put the 
money into his account without delay. I think NatWest acted reasonably here. Plus it 
removed the £50 once Mr F made his view known. 
I listened closely to the call in which Mr F says he was offered £250. I accept he is giving us 
his genuine recollections of the call. But the call is very clear  Mr F is offered £200  in total.
For all these reasons, I think that the £200  that NatWest has already offered Mr F is a fair 
award. NatWest says this £200 is still available. Mr F has indicated  that with great 
reluctance, he is now prepared to accept  it. I realise this is not the £2,000  he wanted at first 
or the £325 he most recently put forward. If he now wishes to accept this offer he should 
contact NatWest directly.
Ref: DRN73511014Mr F has sent us information  about  new complaints. I have not deal with these matters as 
they were not part of the original complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020 .
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7351101