K820x#14  complaint
Mr H complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim hes made on a 
marine insurance policy after his boat was damaged.
background
AXA has used a number  of agents to manage  this claim and where  I refer to AXAs actions 
that includes the actions of these  representatives.
Mr Hs boat is insured by AXA. Some years ago, the boat became flooded with water and 
experienced damage following a storm. Mr H made  a claim on the policy  and he wasnt 
happy with the settlement figure AXA offered  him. This was the subject of a previous 
complaint brought to this service.
An ombudsmans decision was issued in 2016. This instructed AXA to provide Mr H with a 
list of independent surveyors for him to choose  one to determine what  repairs  were needed 
and how much they would cost to ensure a fair settlement of the claim. AXA did this.
Mr H isnt happy with whats happened  subsequent to this and complained to AXA about a 
number of issues. It issued its final response  in July 2019 and said it was awaiting the 
completion of strip out works and the production of a scope of works to bring the boat back 
to pre-incident condition.  It also said it had authorised the production of a wheelhouse 
cover but Mr H had told it this was no longer proceeding.
Mr H remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. He raised a number of issues  
including the delays in the repairs being completed, AXAs refusal to cover some  of his 
costs and the way it interacted with various third-party companies while  the claim was 
going on.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained that while  things had taken 
longer than normal, she wasnt persuaded this was entirely AXAs responsibility.
Additionally, she said she hadnt seen enough evidence  to substantiate some of Mr Hs 
accusations about  AXAs interactions with the third parties involved in the investigation 
and repair  process. She pointed out AXA had suggested a meeting to discuss moving the 
claim forward and she thought this was a reasonable course  of action which  would benefit 
both parties.
Mr H remained  unhappy and asked  an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
My decision  focuses on the issues that occurred after the ombudsmans decision in 2016  
up to the point AXA issued its final response  on Mr Hs subsequent complaint in July 2019.
Ref: DRN70969742My role as an ombudsman at this service is to determine a complaint quickly and with 
minimal formality. That means Ill focus  on what I consider to be the crux of the issue  and 
Ill comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make here. While 
I may not comment on everything Mr H has said, I can confirm  I have read and considered 
everything thats been submitted by both parties.
I acknowledge this claim has taken  a significant  time but thats not automatically AXAs  
fault. So, I will take a look to see if its caused unnecessary  delays which meant the claim 
took longer than it should have. Ill also be keeping in mind AXAs duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly,  and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ill deal with what I consider to be the key issues that lie at the heart of this complaint, in 
turn.
The delays in the repairs being  carried out
Following the ombudsmans decision,  in February  2016 AXA provided Mr H with the 
names of three surveyors as instructed in the decision. Mr H wasnt happy  with any of 
these surveyors and it took until December 2016  for him to let AXA know of a surveyor  he 
was happy with.
There were then further delays in the investigative work which Mr H confirms  were due to 
the weather conditions at the time making it impossible to move  the boat and his chosen 
surveyor not being available for some time. This meant the survey  didnt  happen until April 
2017 and, given what Ive explained  here,  I dont consider  AXA responsible for this delay.
Over the next couple of months, AXA wrote to Mr H asking for estimates for the immediate  
work required as identified in the survey, which Mr H eventually responded to in July 2017.  
Following some confusion about the estimate,  AXA confirmed approval for the initial  work  
to be undertaken.
The earliest the boat repairer  could do the work  was December 2017, after a slot in 
September 2017 was missed. Mr H says this was because  of AXAs  actions but Ive not 
seen anything which substantiates this.
At some  point, the boat repairer stopped  communicating  with Mr H so there were further 
delays and in August 2018 AXA wrote to Mr H asking again  for him to provide an invoice 
for the immediate work required - payment  for which it had already approved - and an 
estimate for the further repairs. It also confirmed it was happy for Mr H to use a different 
repairer. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied this was a reasonable approach.
By January 2019, some work had been undertaken to produce a new wheelhouse cover and 
AXA confirmed to Mr H it would authorise  payment for this work. There  was some  confusion 
between the manufacturer and Mr H over the time it would take AXA to pay for this. Im 
satisfied AXA responded to Mr Hs concerns in a reasonable time clarifying what hed been 
told by the manufacturer wasnt correct and offering him a number of ways it was happy  to 
pay for this work. Overall, Im not persuaded AXA was responsible for this confusion.
Ref: DRN70969743Mr H also let AXA know he was still looking for a boatyard which  would produce a scope  of 
works and estimate  for the repair work.  AXA confirmed once it had the quote,  it would  be 
able to consider  the claim further.
In May 2019, AXA got in contact with Mr H again,  reminding him it still needed the final 
invoice for the wheelhouse cover. It also asked  again if he could provide the estimate for the 
reminder of the works required.
In July 2019, AXA issued a final response  after Mr H brought  his complaint to this service.  At 
this point, work was yet to start on the repairs to the boat and AXA was yet to receive an 
estimate for the further works that would  be required after the strip-out  was complete.
Throughout the claim, Mr H was unhappy  about dealing with AXAs  agents and insisted on 
dealing with AXA directly.  In reality, the agent  continued to manage  the claim but AXA sent 
all correspondence in relation to it. I think this contributed to correspondence taking longer 
than it might have but Ive not seen enough  evidence to show this had a significant impact 
on the time the claim took.
Its clear here the claim has gone  on for a significant time. And whilst AXA might  have done 
some things quicker than it did, Im not persuaded it caused any significant delays for the 
reasons Ive explained above. Overall, Im satisfied AXA has been clear about what  it 
required to move the complaint forward and its been proactive in reiterating this throughout. 
Im satisfied its approach  has been reasonable.
AXAs refusal to pay costs
I can see over the time the claim has been  ongoing,  AXA has paid Mr H more than
£8,000 to cover the cost of dehumidifiers  and electricity to prevent the boat from 
deteriorating further.
In June 2019, it explained to Mr H it couldnt  go on covering these costs indefinitely without 
confirmation the previously agreed works  had been  completed. It confirmed once these 
works were completed and an estimate for the remaining works provided, it would consider 
these costs further.
Given the time thats passed, together with my conclusion that AXA isnt responsible for 
these delays, Im satisfied this approach is reasonable.
The confusion over the quote  for initial works
The survey  explained  that certain work  needed to be undertaken immediately to prevent 
further deterioration of the boat. It recommended a quote should be obtained for the cost of 
this. Mr H obtained this and provided  it to AXA and it mistakenly assumed this was the full 
cost of the remedial work. Mr H pointed out the error  to AXA.
Ref: DRN70969744I understand this might  have been frustrating  for Mr H but Im satisfied AXA quickly  corrected 
its mistake and confirmed it was willing to consider the cost of the remaining work once a 
quote was available. Im satisfied  this was a reasonable way for it to handle this confusion.
AXAs contact with third parties
AXA contacted the boat repairer that was going to carry out the immediate work and it said 
this was to discuss  the transportation of the boat. Mr H claims this wasnt  true and says this 
contact with the repairer caused it to refuse to deal with him. I see from Mr Hs submissions 
he made some thirty-eight calls to the repairer  to talk to the owner but he wasnt available so 
I understand why this would be frustrating.
He also says AXA provided false information to two companies involved in the manufacture 
and fitting of the temporary wheelhouse cover  and this resulted in them stopping contact with 
him and refusing to carry out the work.
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to substantiate these claims and, on balance, Ive not 
seen enough for me to safely conclude theres merit to them.
Summary
I acknowledge Mr H is likely to be disappointed by my decision and I know hes found the 
claim frustrating to deal with.
Having reviewed the file carefully,  Im satisfied AXA is keen to bring this claim to a 
satisfactory conclusion for Mr H as quickly as it can. Its suggested a mediation meeting with 
him to discuss the best way to do this and this seems like a reasonable course of action to 
me.
Ill leave it to Mr H to decide if he wishes to take AXA up on this offer but without this, I think  
it will prove difficult to bring this claim to a satisfactory conclusion for all parties  involved.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7096974