K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the advice he received in 1989 from Monahans  Financial Services
Limited (formerly Dove Insurance  Brokers) to transfer his defined benefit pension
scheme benefits to a personal pension plan.
background
In 1989 Monahans advised Mr B to transfer  from his employers defined benefit (DB) 
pension scheme  to a personal pension plan (PPP). At this time, Mr B was 47 years old, 
employed with nearly 23 years company service, but facing redundancy and looking for a 
new job. He transferred the benefits  from his employers DB scheme to a Section 32 plan in 
November 1989.  In the years following, Monahans continued to advise Mr B, resulting in 
further changes  to his retirement  planning.
In 2019 Mr B complained to Monahans about  the transfer of his DB scheme  benefits.  Mr B 
said hed recently  met with a former colleague and discovered that this colleagues pension 
benefits were substantially greater than his own. This colleague did not transfer his DB 
scheme benefits and so Mr B thought the advice he received to transfer might not have been 
suitable. 
Monahans looked into his concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. It reasoned  the level of 
benefit now being received by a former colleague isnt relevant to the suitability of the 
advice given the wide range of factors that can influence  pensions before and after 
retirement from both private  and occupational  pension schemes. 
Monahans also said in 1999  Mr B queried  the level of potential income hed receive 
compared to what could have been received  if hed not transferred. So it thought  Mr B 
brought his complaint too late. Unhappy with Monahans response, Mr B referred his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter and concluded this was a complaint we could 
look at and that it should be upheld.  Monahans  disagreed and provided further 
correspondence from 1998 which it said shows that Mr Bs case was reviewed in terms of 
its suitability more than 20 years ago at his request, making the current complaint  time 
barred. The investigator considered this but didnt think the evidence provided was sufficient  
to demonstrate the suitability of the 1989 transfer  had been assessed.
The complaint was then referred  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
jurisdiction
I considered in detail  the issue of whether Mr Bs complaint  was one that this service could 
investigate in my jurisdiction decision dated 31 December 2019. In this, I concluded that the 
complaint was one that this service could  look into. 
Ref: DRN76898272Were required to keep jurisdiction under review until a final decision is issued. So Ive 
reconsidered everything thats been provided.  While  I appreciate the strength of Monahans 
position on this matter, Ive not been provided with any further information that persuades  
me to depart from my conclusion that we can consider Mr Bs complaint.   
I will now turn to the merits of Mr Bs complaint. 
was the transfer  suitable?  
By way of background, in October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment 
Board, established  an industry-wide review of particular pension business  transacted by 
authorised firms between  29 April 1988  and 30 June 1994. It was generally  known as the 
"Pension Review".  It aimed to address  concerns about the possible widespread mis-selling 
of personal pension plans (PPPs) between 1988 and 1994.
The regulator set down the broad methodology that firms who had sold these PPPs were
required to follow when  carrying  out the review.  Where  mis-selling  was identified,  the
regulator set down the method and assumptions  that firms had to use to determine the level
of any redress due. Firms were expected to retain  records of this review. 
The advice given  to Mr B and the application to transfer was made and completed in 1989. 
So this advice and subsequent transfer  falls within the review  period. If this had been 
reviewed and found unsuitable, Mr Bs plan should have been uplifted by any compensation 
as required by the guidance.
Monahans maintains a review was conducted  and the advice found to be compliant. Mr B 
says he was never invited  to have this advice reviewed,  and so he doesnt know if it was 
suitable. 
Monahans has been  unable to produce  a pension review  file for Mr B. And its unclear from 
what it has provided whether a review of the advice given in 1989  was ever offered to Mr B. 
Or, if it was completed, what the result  of the review  was. This means I cannot be sure the 
advice was reviewed  in accordance with the regulatory  standards or requirements applicable 
at the time. On that basis  alone, I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
what must  Monahans Financial Services  Limited do next?
In determining redress, my view is that a fair outcome would be for Monahans to put Mr B,
as far as possible,  into the position  he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
Monahans must undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the pension review 
methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out using the most  recent financial assumptions published
by the FCA at the date of the actual calculation. Monahans may wish to contact the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a 'SERPS adjustment' in the calculation, to 
take into account the impact of leaving the defined benefit scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P  
entitlement.
Ref: DRN76898273If this shows a loss, the compensation  amount should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension  
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available  tax relief.
The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing
protection or allowance. 
If the payment into the pension isn't possible or has protection  or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a deduction to reflect the rate of 
income tax Mr B pays  or is likely to pay in retirement.
This is because the payment would otherwise have been used  to provide pension benefits,
which would have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying status in retirement. My
understanding is that the rate applicable to Mr B would be 20%. 
25% of the loss would  be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed. So making a notional
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately  reflects  this.
Our award  limit for complaints brought to us before 1 April 2019 is £150,000. Where total fair
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, we may
recommend that the business pays the balance.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to
Mr B within 90 days of the date Monahans receives  notification of his
 acceptance of my decision.
Further interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this decision the date of settlement for any time,  in excess  of 90 
days, that it takes Monahans pay Mr B this compensation.
It's possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual  time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90-day period allowed for settlement above.  
So any period where  the only outstanding  item required  to undertake  the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest won't  apply.
If Mr B accepts  my final decision,  the money  award  of up to £150,000 would be binding  on 
Monahans. Our recommendation for the amount over £150,000 would not be binding.
Further, it's unlikely  that Mr B can accept a final decision  and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid.
Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept my final decision.
Ref: DRN76898274my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
For the reasons  set out above, Monahans  Financial  Service Limited must review its advice in 
1989 to Mr B, taking  account the latest guidance from the regulator in respect of such 
reviews. If a loss is shown, it must redress him as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.  
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7689827