K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty  motorcycle
Background
In August  2018  Mr M bought  a new motorcycle funded by a hire purchase agreement  with 
Blue. It cost £20,000 and Mr M paid a deposit  of £5,000. He collected it on 1 September and 
within a matter of hours he identified a problem with the throttle. This was repaired by the 
dealer after about a week. Mr M continued to have  concerns about  the motorbike and some 
five or so weeks later the manufacturer issued recall  notice. It was taken to the dealer and 
remained there until around the end of March 2019.
During this period Mr M brought a complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one 
of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. Blue initially  told her it had been  
agreeable to the motorbike being  rejected,  but it later said this was an error. It said the 
motorbike was subject  to a manufacturers recall which took the matter  outside its 
responsibility.
Our adjudicator said the dealer had made a successful repair of the initial  fault and so even 
though Mr M had raised his concerns within 30 days of purchase he had waived his right to 
reject. She thought the recall issue wasnt necessarily a fault which  had been  present at the 
point of sale, but she understood Mr Ms concerns. She suggested Blue refund all payments 
made from October with interest and pay Mr M £150  compensation.
Blue said it had told Mr M his motorbike was ready  in December and he hadnt collected  it. 
As such it offered to repay two monthly payments. Mr M disputed  this claim and Blue offered 
to provide a call recording supporting its claim,  but it failed  to submit one.
Our adjudicator responded to say that the delay appeared to have arisen due to a dispute  
between Blue and the dealer as to which party would  accept  liability.  She noted Mr M had 
said he had made  numerous calls to both parties to try and get the matter resolved. She said 
that she had told Mr M in December that she believed the bike to be ready, but she was still 
considering the complaint and the issue of rejection. As no agreement could be reached the 
matter has been  referred  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier  of the goods under  this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN76953912The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a vehicle, the other  relevant circumstances  a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It may be that I have  the benefit  of hindsight, but this matter  seems  relatively straightforward 
and I am both surprised  and disappointed that Blue didnt resolve it sooner. Mr M was 
entitled to have years of trouble free use of the motorbike and not the three  hours he 
enjoyed. He was also entitled to reject  the motorbike, but as our adjudicator  has explained 
he accepted a repair of the initial fault.
Regrettably this wasnt the end of Mr M problems with the bike and it was returned  to the 
dealer to effect repairs as a result of the manufacturers recall. I see that the potential  
problem constituted a safety  risk and it was sensible  that it was returned to the dealer 
without delay. It seems the repair took longer than anticipated. Blue says the bike was ready  
before Mr M collected it and offered to supply a recording of a call to confirm this. Despite 
being given the opportunity to do so they failed to produce the recording.
It seems  the delay, or part of it was due to a disagreement between Blue and the dealer, but 
that is of no concern to Mr M. I dont see why Mr M should pay for the bike for the period he 
was without it when  it was being repaired. And I must stress this all these problems 
happened within a few months  of his new bike being  collected.  A new bike should be fit for 
purpose and be durable. Mr Ms bike wasnt and he was deprived of the use of it for a 
considerable time due to the actions or lack of action by Blue.
Therefore I have no hesitation in upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
refund  all monthly payments from October  2018 until the date Mr M collected his 
motorbike. This should be calculated on a pro rata basis  if necessary.
pay interest at 8% simple  on the refunds from the date payments or part payments 
were due until they are repaid.
pay Mr M £150 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7695391