K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company  Limiteds  (AA) service  in 
connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to AA includes its agents.
background
Mr Ws car was damaged while parked and unattended. He claimed on his policy and asked 
AA to repair it. That process was delayed. When AAs approved repairers  did repair the car it 
couldn't provide Mr W with a courtesy car. Mr W complained.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 January 2020. For ease I've copied  my provisional  
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it. 
At the outset, when  Mr W first contacted  AA, there  was some confusion as Mr W didn't 
initially say that he intended to claim against  the policy. So AA recorded the incident as 
notification only; meaning that it didnt need to take any action. But he later did tell AA he 
wanted to claim.
It seems  that owing to miscommunication between AA, its repairers and Mr W the repairs 
didn't initially  get done.  When Mr W complained AA told him this was because he hadn't 
asked for the repair work to be carried out. This was plainly incorrect as Mr W did want the 
work carried out. AA then contacted its repairers to arrange repairs but they didnt do so. The 
repairers have since  said that they tried to contact  Mr W but he didn't respond.  So AA closed 
its file without doing the work. 
Its not clear why that happened as Mr W clearly wanted the work  done. Indeed he contacted 
AA in May 2018  to complain about  the lack of progress. AA acknowledged  his complaint and 
told him it would  respond within eight  weeks.  But it didnt do so.
Mr W then contacted us and AA put the wheels  in motion to sort out the repairs. AAs 
repairers initially told Mr W he couldn't have a courtesy car as he didn't have a hard copy  of 
his driving licence - as hed sent it to the DVLA to be renewed.  I understand that at that time 
Mr W believed  the repairs would only take a week and said he could manage without a 
courtesy car for a week. 
Roughly one week later Mr W contacted the repairers again. They told him that repairs 
hadn't started yet because AA hadn't  authorised  them. AA hasn't provided  any explanation 
for why it took six days to authorise the repairs. Given that the repairs had already been 
delayed considerably I dont think this further  delay was reasonable.
By that time Mr W had received his licence back from the DVLA  but the repairers still didnt  
provide a courtesy car. They told him that was because one wasn't available. That might 
have been the case but Mr Ws policy entitled him to a courtesy car, so if one wasnt 
available I would have  expected AA to arrange one. But that didnt happen. And because  he 
didn't have a car Mr W had to spend  money on other forms of transport  such  as taxis.  I don't 
think its fair that hes out of pocket because he didn't get the courtesy car his policy  entitled 
Ref: DRN72496532him to. So, I think AA should compensate  him for the lack of use of a car during that period. 
And I think £10 a day is a reasonable  sum. I understand that in total Mr W was without his 
car for around 19 day. It follows  that I think AA should pay him £190 compensation for his 
loss of use of his car while  it was being  repaired.
Also in total it took AA roughly six months  to arrange and complete the repairs. I think  that 
was too long. And during  that period it didnt respond to Mr Ws complaint, which wasn't 
reasonable. So, in order to address Mr Ws distress and inconvenience  because of AAs 
poor service I think it should pay him a further  £150 compensation.
developments 
Mr W said he wished  to correct my sequence  of events. He told us that rather  than telling AA 
initially that he didn't want  to claim he contacted  AA after getting quotes for having  the 
repairs done privately but because of the high cost of those he decided to claim on his 
policy. He said he asked  AA to sort out the repairs and it said it would do so. But the garage 
didnt contact him so he had to ring AA again. Otherwise Mr W accepted my provisional  
decision. AA also accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
Im grateful  to Mr W for clarifying what happened when he first contacted AA but that 
information doesn't change my findings. And as both Mr W and AA accepted  my provisional 
decision I see no reason  to amend it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr W £340 compensation. That sum is made up of £190  for the 
loss of use of his car and £150  to address  his distress and inconvenience  as a result  of AAs 
delays and the handling of his complaint.
AA should take the above  action within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr W has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If AA pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7249653