K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited didnt treat her fairly  when  
she had a mortgage with it. She asks for compensation.
background
Miss S took out a mortgage with KMC in 2004. The mortgage fell into arrears. KMC took 
possession of the property and sold it in 2007.  Miss S raised a number  of complaints about 
how KMC dealt with her mortgage.  Weve explained  that while our rules dont allow us to 
look into all of her complaints, we can look into Miss Ss complaints that:
1. fees and charges were unfairly applied.
2. the early repayment  charge (ERC)  applied by KMC wasnt correct.
Our investigator said:
KMC applied fees and charges in line with its own tariff and regulations in place at the 
time. 
it was entitled  to deduct  costs associated with selling the property, such  as estate agents 
fees. 
It applied an ERC  in accordance with the mortgage offer.
The investigator said KMC  had refunded  arrears  fees totalling about £300  applied in months 
when Miss S made  her monthly  payment, and this was fair. 
Miss S didnt agree, saying the charges were unfair. She said rules set by the regulator allow 
her to claim  back  all fees, including the ERC,  with interest.  Miss S said KMC were aware of 
her difficult  circumstances.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss S explained that difficult circumstances meant she was unable to maintain her monthly  
mortgage payments.  Im very sorry for the circumstances Miss S describes. Here  though  I 
must consider whether  KMC  made an error,  or treated Miss S unfairly.
Miss Ss account fell into arrears. KMC applied fees,  including arrears fees and fees for 
returned direct debits. The fees it applied  were in line with KMCs tariff of fees. The mortgage 
offer says a copy of the tariff was enclosed and I have  no reason to think this wasnt the 
case. I think KMC was entitled to apply these fees under the terms and conditions  of the 
account. 
KMC took possession  and sold the security  property.  I think  KMC was entitled,  under the 
terms and conditions, to apply costs related to this to Miss Ss account. I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair in doing so. 
Ref: DRN79848162When Miss S took out the mortgage she agreed  to the terms, including  that an early  
repayment charge  of 6% of the amount repaid  would  apply if she repaid the mortgage  within  
three years. This was clearly set out in the mortgage  offer.  Miss Ss mortgage was repaid 
within three years, and I think KMC was entitled to apply the ERC.
KMC refunded fees totalling about £300. I think this is fair. I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require it to refund more fees.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7984816