K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) blocked his card 
without warning and then closed his account.
background
In December 2018 Mr D found his Amex  card wouldnt work when he was out trying  to use it. 
He found this embarrassing and found  it difficult to get someone at Amex to explain why this 
was. He was told his account  had been  suspended and hed be getting a letter telling him 
Amex was closing  his account  in 60 days time.
Mr D continued to find no one returned his calls or was able to explain why his account had 
been suspended. He then received  a letter from Amex dated 10 December telling him theyd 
made this decision  as hed breached his cardmember agreement. Mr D completed a subject 
access request but his records didnt confirm what he wanted to know.  He wanted to 
understand the thinking behind the decision Amex had taken. He didnt believe hed 
breached the agreement.
Dissatisfied with Amexs  final response, Mr D brought  his complaint to the ombudsman  
service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included more detail on what Amex  believed 
Mr D  and other cardholders on his account  had done. This showed Amex thought Mr D 
and other  cardholders had deliberately misused their cards to boost cash  rebates to the 
account. Overall our investigator felt Amex had done nothing wrong and could make the 
decision to close Mr Ds account.
Mr D didnt agree. He continued to believe Amex couldnt show  hed breached their 
cardmember agreement. Hes asked an ombudsman  to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision because of the time that had passed since our 
investigators original view. I also didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. A number of the issues  
hed raised were about the legal interpretation  of Amexs terms and conditions.  I explained  
my role was to reach  a decision under the services  fair and reasonable remit.
Mr D provided  further detailed comments. In summary these were:
He didnt agree with my provisional decision and wished to have his case  reviewed at 
a higher level;
He didnt believe Id paid enough  attention to the issues hed raised  under the 
Consumer Credit  Act. He argues that Amex are in breach  of their statutory 
requirements; and
He felt the evidence showed that he and his family had used their cards within the 
terms of Amexs promotion. Amex, however, had chosen  to stop them  using their 
cards and benefitting from the promotion without reason.
No response was received from Amex.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
Ref: DRN71046042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion I did in my provisional  decision. Ive 
considered the additional  points Mr D made:  a number  of which were points Id already 
considered when coming to my provisional  conclusion.
Firstly I must disappoint Mr D. Im the ombudsman allocated  to make a decision on his 
complaint. Once  Ive done this here, that brings an end to his complaint process at the 
ombudsman service. I dont mean  to be sarcastic but in ombudsman service terms Im the 
highest level he can reach when his complaint is being decided  upon.
Im aware that Ive again  summarised  this complaint above in less detail than either of the 
two parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every  single 
point made  by Mr D. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I 
think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account (the cardmember 
agreement); the final response provided by Amex; Mr Ds Amex statements covering this 
period and our investigators view of 24 July 2019. Ive not repeated all the relevant terms 
and conditions as Im confident both parties  are aware of these.
Mr D provided  detailed  responses to the view on 20 August and 1, 8 and 14 September 
2019 as well as a response to my provisional decision on 19 April 2021.  Ive noted and 
reviewed these carefully in considering what I believe is the right outcome. I hope Ive also 
answered some of the questions he raised  whilst knowing he will be disappointed  at the 
outcome Ive reached.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. 
Mr D believes  Amex is in breach of the Consumer Credit Act. I must make it clear  from the 
outset that this service  is an informal alternative  dispute resolution service and not a court of 
law. So, whilst I will take into account  relevant law, I cannot interpret it if there is any 
ambiguity or lack of clarity. That is the function  of the courts.  As already stated, I must  
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate the interpretation of the Consumer Credit Act is a key aspect of Mr Ds 
complaint. But if he wishes  to highlight ambiguity under that law  which  he insists applies 
Ref: DRN71046043more generally to Amexs  cardmember  agreement   hed be better having that considered in 
a court  of law.
I have reached a conclusion which I believe is fair and reasonable as Im obliged to do.
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration in not getting  a clear  response from Amex  about what  they 
actually meant when they said he was persistently breaching his cardmember agreement.  
Itll be no consolation to him that Amex has been similarly secret-squirrelish with our service. 
But I think its slightly disingenuous of Mr D to suggest he doesnt understand what  they 
were getting  at. He and his family  members  were using their cards extensively during an 
Amex campaign to attract use of Amex  cards in smaller shops.  A cash rebate was being 
offered at a rate of £5 for transactions over £10 in value. 
Mr D wants Amex to be able to demonstrate  exactly how his actions breached  the 
cardmember agreement  and why they have  any basis for rejecting  him as a customer  
without giving him a reason. And hes right theres  nothing specific  to say that transactions  
over a certain number  of transactions for this specific campaign would mean there was a 
breach.
But Ive read the campaign details along with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. 
That provides quite a bit of leeway to Amex to decide what constitutes  a serious and 
persistent breach of the cardmember agreement.  And that aspect allowed them to 
immediately suspend the transactions Mr D and his other family cardholders  were making.
My role isnt to query  more generally the terms and conditions that a financial institution  has 
set. These must meet regulatory requirements  and any best practice guidelines that an 
institution is signed up to. Rather I consider whether  those terms have been applied  fairly. 
And this is what Ive done here.
Mr D says hes not been given a specific reason for why his account  was closed. He does 
know in their final response, Amex confirmed:
"This agreement is open ended and has no fixed duration. You and we can end it without 
giving any reason. You can do this at any time by calling us or writing  to us (our contact 
details are at the beginning  of this agreement) to tell us to close your account and by paying 
off aIl the amounts you owe. We can do this by giving you at least two months written 
notice, but we may end this agreement immediately if:
* You seriously or persistently breach this agreement; "
I can understand Mr D wanting  to see something  more specific. I would often agree. But 
financial institutions can and do decide  to suspend cardholders activity for fraud or serious 
breach. Thats permitted. They do not have  to explain  their reasoning in more detail. If Mr D 
feels they should, I suggest he raises  this aspect with the Financial Conduct Authority as the 
regulator.
Ive looked at the detail  of what happened here. The Shop Small campaign  ran from 1-16 
December 2018.  According to Mr Ds statements, he and the other  three cardholders made 
in excess of 150 transactions  which exceeded £10 in value (but didnt exceed £11.50) in 
over 20 different venues.  
Ref: DRN71046044I know Mr D was concerned at fraud being  suggested as happening at the time his account 
was suspended. But in fact I think if Amex  hadnt taken action to identify unusual account  
use  which  is certainly what was happening  as potential fraud theyd have been open to 
regulatory criticism. So I dont think the fact they may have immediately thought  fraud was 
taking place, and suspended card use, is surprising. Evidence Mr D provided to our service 
confirms that Amex did flag transactions in December 2018  as potential fraud.
Specifically the agreement between Mr D and Amex stated:
We may refuse to authorise  a transaction if:
 we have reasonable grounds to suspect  unauthorised or improper use or fraud;"
Nor do I believe Amex did anything wrong or were in breach of their own terms when not 
confirming to Mr D at the point of sale that his card was suspended. Amex use the word  
normally when they refer to this. Im not convinced that what they were seeing in terms of 
card use could be considered normal.
When Amex looked  at the account  use more closely I believe they were concerned Mr D 
was gaming the cardmembers agreement.  This would allow  them to maintain the 
suspension. They then gave Mr D two months notice of their intention  to close  his account. 
No reason then needs to be given. As our investigator confirmed, Amex is allowed to 
terminate a cardmember  agreement without reason as long as they gave the required notice.  
Thats their policy. I believe this happened here and was applied  fairly.
Ive raised with Amex  their definition of gaming. I know Mr D already knows  what  they mean 
as he provided the same  evidence to us in his original submission. This relates to Amexs  
ability to stop any cardholder participating in their Shop Small campaign and states Amex 
reserves the right to suspend or cancel the offer if any fraud or gaming by users . As Ive 
pointed out to Amex,  this doesnt actually provide a definition to what they mean by gaming.
But having  reviewed its more normal use, I accept  Amex  believed Mr D was taking 
advantage of the campaign to drive  up cash credits to his account.  Mr D has argued that the 
campaign allowed  that to happen as it placed no limits on the use he and his other  
cardholders could make.  In fact hes suggested the campaign actually encouraged that 
behaviour.
But I disagree. I think the volume  of transactions, the odd nature of them  (all between £10-
11.50) and the locations clearly suggests  Mr D knew what  he was doing. Im pretty sure this 
would have quickly raised a fraud alert with Amex.  The activity could easily have  suggested 
criminal activity and potential money-laundering. Amex could have taken more  serious  action 
in response to the use happening on Mr Ds account.
Overall Im not going to ask Amex to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
American Express Services Europe Limited.
Ref: DRN71046045Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7104604