K821x#15complaint
Mrs K has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) refused to pay her travel 
insurance claim.
Reference to IPA includes its agents.
background
Mrs K fell ill while abroad and needed  surgery. She claimed on her policy for her medical 
and other  incidental expenses but IPA refused her claim. Mrs K brought her complaint about 
that to us.
On 30 April 2019 I issued  a provisional decision. For ease Ive reproduced my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill say that it 
was reasonable  for IPA to turn down  Mrs Ks claim.
IPA says that Mrs Ks policy isnt suitable  for anyone whos had a health condition within the 
previous five years. It says that Mrs K had received treatment for a condition  roughly a year 
before she bought her policy. So it said the policy wasnt suitable for her. In contrast Mrs K 
said that she hadnt had a medical condition. She said shed suffered a back  injury  while  
lifting in work. She took anti-inflammatory medicine, saw an osteopath  and was off work for 
about four weeks. Following that she didnt have  any recurrence or further treatment. So she 
didnt think she had a pre-existing condition.
Mrs K applied for the policy  through a price comparison website. IPA said that if Mrs K had 
correctly answered the questions  that the comparison site asked then she wouldnt have 
been able to buy the policy.  And if she hadnt bought the policy she wouldnt have been in a 
position to make the claim. For that reason IPA doesnt think it should pay it. So Ive thought 
very carefully about the questions the comparison site asks and Mrs Ks responses to those.
Of relevance to Mrs Ks claim the comparison site asks:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing condition?
To ensure you have  the right cover for your trip it is important  you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your policy.  Examples 
include diabetes,  high blood pressure,  depression  and respiratory conditions (including  
asthma).
Mrs K answered no to that question. Given that the examples of pre-existing conditions 
were things like, diabetes,  high blood  pressure etc. I can understand that Mrs K might have 
felt that the definition of a pre-existing condition only related to ongoing or recurring 
conditions. And as the only significant event a doctor had treated her for was an injury  
brought on by lifting, which had been  completely healed, I can understand  why she thought 
she didnt have such a condition.
Ref: DRN77772142But, later in the sales process - after selecting the policy - the comparison site asked Mrs K 
to confirm that shed  read some further information.  Ive copied the relevant parts  below. The 
comparison site says:
Please note that the policy you have  selected  is not designed to cover  claims arising  from 
pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following questions  please 
select I agree  to proceed.
1) Within the last 5 years have you or anyone  you wish to insure on this policy  suffered 
any medical condition  that has required prescribed medication and treatment including 
surgery, tests  or investigations?...
Mrs K selected I agree.  In other  words  she said that she hadnt  suffered any medical 
condition requiring medication  or treatment in the previous five years. 
Mrs K doesnt dispute that shed seen the doctor  for her injury about a year before the policy.  
But she says she had no previous history of that condition and didnt think  for one second  
that a relatively  brief period  of discomfort could be a medical condition. That condition wasnt 
related to her treatment  abroad. And she said she had no history signs or symptoms of the 
condition for which she required  surgery while abroad.
Its not in dispute  that Mrs K hadnt had any signs or symptoms of the condition that required 
treatment abroad.  But thats not at issue. What is at issue  is whether  or not Mrs K should  
have been in a position to buy the policy at all.
Mrs K had seen her doctor,  been prescribed medication, taken time off work and seen an 
osteopath roughly  a year before she bought  her policy.  So it wasnt  accurate for her to 
answer I agree to the above question, even if she didnt think she had a pre-existing 
condition. The fact remains that Mrs K should  have been aware that shed had medication 
and treatment while she had a not insignificant  period off work sick. But she answered the 
above question  as if those things hadnt happened. So I dont think she took reasonable care 
to answer the comparison sites  question.  And, if she had, the policy  wouldnt have been 
sold to her. She would  instead  have  been  directed to other policies that would have offered 
her the appropriate  cover.
Theres no suggestion that Mrs K deliberately answered the question incorrectly.  And her 
mistake when doing so is known  in insurance  as a careless misrepresentation. The 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out what an 
insurer may do where a consumers made  a careless misrepresentation. It says that where, 
but for that misrepresentation, an insurer wouldnt have  entered into the contract  it may 
refuse any claim, and refund the premium.
The contract in this case is Mrs Ks policy. And, as Ive said above if Mrs K had answered 
the question about any treatment shed  received  in the previous five years  more carefully 
she couldnt have  bought  that policy. So as IPA wouldnt have sold Mrs K the policy  it 
wouldnt have entered into the contract  with her. And, in those circumstances, its reasonable 
that it refused  her claim. 
However, in line with CIDRA unless its already done so I think IPA should refund her the 
premium paid.
developments
Ref: DRN77772143IPA didnt provide  any further comments.
Mrs K sought the help of a representative who replied  to my provisional decision setting out 
why she didnt agree with my provisional  findings.  Ive addressed the key comments  from 
that reply below. For ease  Ive referred to the representatives comments as being those of 
Mrs K.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again very carefully to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im not 
going to amend my provisional findings.
I think its worth repeating that the situation arose  because IPA says that if Mrs K had 
answered the comparison sites question appropriately she wouldnt have been in a position 
to buy the policy,  so couldnt have  claimed  from it. I referred to the appropriate legislation, 
CIDRA, in my provisional decision. That says that its the duty of a consumer like Mrs K to 
take reasonable care to answer insurers questions when applying for policies.  So I need to 
think about whether  or not Mrs K did that and what IPAs  remedies  were  if she didnt.  
Ive seen the sales journey that Mrs K went through when buying the policy. It might  help if I 
run through that process. She completed her own details (and those  of her joint policyholder)  
on the comparison site; answering questions about  the cover  that she was looking for and 
about her medical  history. The comparison site gave  her some policy options, including  the 
IPA policy. Mrs K selected that policy from the list to buy it. But before she could go ahead  
and buy the policy there  was one further  step. The website  said she had to be able to 
answer no to the following  question to then click a button agreeing  to buy the policy. As 
indicated above  that question was:
Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered any 
medical condition  that has required prescribed medication and treatment  including surgery, 
tests or investigations?...
So, in order to answer no to that question Mrs K needed to ask herself  if shed suffered 
from any medical condition that had required medication and treatment in the previous  five 
years.
A year earlier Mrs K had seen a doctor who had prescribed her with anti-inflammatory drugs. 
So shed had a condition  and been  prescribed medication within  five years. At around the 
same time as well as a doctor shed also seen an osteopath for the same injury.  So shed 
clearly received treatment  within the previous five years. And her condition had kept her off 
work for some weeks. So it simply  wasnt accurate  for her to say that she hadnt received 
any treatment or medication. It follows that if shed taken more care she wouldnt have ticked 
the button agreeing that she could  answer  no to that question. The other option would have 
been to tick a box that said show me policies  for people with pre-existing conditions. If 
Mrs K had pressed  that button then, via an automated process, she wouldnt have been  able 
to buy the IPA policy.
Mrs K has asked  for disclosure  of: the evidence that was available  to IPA at the time that 
[Mrs K] completed the form that would have led them  to so decline. But as Ive indicated  
above, Mrs K didnt provide any evidence that shed received medication or treatment at the 
Ref: DRN77772144time, so the automated  process allowed her to buy the policy.  If shed revealed the previous 
treatment during the application process she wouldnt  have been offered the policy. And as 
Ive said in my provisional decision,  in those circumstances, where  IPA wouldnt have 
entered into the contract (the policy)  CIDRA  allows IPA to treat the policy  as if it hadnt 
existed. 
Mrs K has asked  if Im satisfied that IPA has turned down other insurance applications in 
similar circumstances. Thats  not relevant to Mrs Ks complaint as I will look at each 
complaint separately  and my conclusions would be on the specific  merits of each individual  
case. But, in any event, as Ive said above,  the process for buying the policy is system led 
and therefore  automated. So in all cases where  a consumer  cant  say that theyve been free 
from medication and treatment in the previous five years, they cant  properly complete the 
purchase of this specific IPA policy.
Mrs K has recently added that there  would be no logical reason for IPA to refuse  to decline 
insurance because  of a single  incidence  of suffering from a back  injury. But, as Ive said 
above, the process is automated, so any acknowledgment of a condition  requiring treatment 
in the previous five years,  regardless of the nature of that condition,  will prevent the policy 
from being sold to that individual.
It might also help if I explain that insurance  is essentially an assessment of risk. And when 
designing their policies, insurers like IPA will think about what risks they wish to cover  for the 
market in which they are operating. One of the most significant risks to travel  insurers  is the 
cost of medical bills for treatment abroad. And all insurers Im aware of will say that people  
whove received recent treatment for medical  conditions pose a higher risk than those who 
havent. So an insurer wishing  to attract lower risk customers will design policies aimed at 
consumers with no recent history of medical treatment and price those policies competitively 
in order to attract that low risk business. 
Im aware that as well as the policy Mrs K bought  IPA offers other  polices which are suitable 
for higher risk consumers who have a history  of recent medical treatment. But those polices 
are likely to be considerably more expensive than the policy Mrs K bought  in order  to cover 
the increase in risk. And if Mrs K had answered  the questions on the comparison website 
appropriately she would have been  directed towards those policies  as well as similar 
policies provided  by other insurers.  So the logic for IPA is to target lower risk consumers 
with a cheaper premium  and polices designed to meet their need. But to also offer other 
more expensive policies  for those, like Mrs K, for whom the cheaper policy isnt suitable.
Mrs Ks also asked what weight Ive applied to the clear distinction and classification of that 
singular episode [for which Mrs K received treatment] compared with the stated serious 
conditions. But in order to find out whats fair and reasonable the key question isnt whether 
or not Mrs K had previously suffered a serious  medical condition  or whether or not that 
condition is comparable to other  more serious or recurring conditions referred to on the price 
comparison site. Instead its whether or not she took reasonable care to answer  the question 
about whether  shed  received treatment  or medication in the last five years. 
I think the price comparison sites question was clear. It didnt suggest that the medication or 
treatment had to be for a serious or recurring medical condition. And Mrs K must  have  
known shed received such treatment. I dont think Mrs K deliberately answered the question 
incorrectly, but I think if shed taken more care to answer it accurately then she wouldnt 
have been sold the policy.
Ref: DRN77772145Similar Mrs K has asked  on what basis I concluded  that her inability to purchase the policy  
had she disclosed the back  pain was within her knowledge at the time of completion . But 
thats not a conclusion I came to. At no point in my provisional decision did I conclude  or 
suggest that Mrs K was aware that if she disclosed her back pain she wouldnt be able to 
buy the policy. My findings are centred  on whether or not Mrs K took reasonable care to 
answer the questions  about whether or not shed received treatment or not. 
Mrs Ks also said that the comparison  sites  warning about non-disclosure is couched  in 
terms that would guide  any enquirer to consider the existence of the serious conditions given 
by the examples provided by the insurer. But as Ive indicated  above the question 
concerned doesnt  refer to serious  or recurring conditions,  it asks a clear  question about 
whether or not the enquirer has suffered any medical condition  requiring medication or 
treatment. And I dont think Mrs K took reasonable care to answer that question accurately; 
neither do I think she answered that question as any reasonable enquirer in a similar 
situation would do. 
It follows that, having thought about  this extremely  carefully, I dont uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint. I understand Mrs K is likely to be very upset with my decision as its likely to have 
a significant effect  on her financially.  While  I have immense sympathy for the position  she 
finds herself in its not fair for me to uphold her complaint on that basis  alone. 
In order to uphold  the complaint I would need  to establish that the difficult  position  that Mrs K 
finds herself in is because IPA did something wrong, or acted unfairly or unreasonably. But I 
havent found thats the case.  If Id decided that IPA had been  unfair  or unreasonable  I could 
go on to consider the impact on Mrs K. But its not fair for me to look at things the other  way 
round. In other  words its not fair for me to say that because  of the significance of the impact  
of the circumstances on Mrs K IPA must  pay her claim. It follows  that I dont uphold this 
complaint. And I understand  IPA has refunded the premium Mrs K paid for the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint about  IPAs refusal to pay 
her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7777214