K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  turned down his 
claim on his critical  illness policy. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mr N.
background
Mr N applied for a joint decreasing term life assurance and critical illness policy  in 
October 2017 and the policy began about a week later. The policy  was taken out over the 
phone using an independent financial advisor  (IFA) and was for a term of five years. The 
policy was taken out to cover  Mr Ns mortgage and the sum assured was £35,000. 
Mr N had an existing, similar  policy with Legal and General that was taken out in 2015. This 
policy was cancelled at around the same time the new policy began. The new policy  was 
largely the same as the old, except it offered a lower sum assured for a lower monthly 
payment. 
Mr N had a heart attack in early 2018  and underwent heart  valve  replacement surgery  later 
that year. He submitted  a claim to Legal  and General under the critical illness policy.  
Legal and General declined the claim in August  2018. It said when  Mr N applied  for the 2017  
policy some  of the information he provided about his medical  history  wasnt consistent with 
information Legal and General had since obtained  from his doctor. Legal and General said 
Mr N answered  three questions incorrectly. These were:   
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or other  health professional for any condition  affecting your
lungs or breathing, for example asthma,  emphysema, sleep apnoea, sarcoidosis
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or other  health professional for memory loss, dizziness  or
balance problems?"
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, do you have any 
medical condition  or symptom that your doctor  or nurse told you to see them about during 
the next 3 Weeks
Legal and General said the day before the policy application, Mr N visited his GP and said 
he was becoming  more forgetful. He returned two days later for a memory test and a 
breathing test. Following  the tests, Mr N was told that he should return  to the GP surgery if 
his memory problems get worse. He was also diagnosed with Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and was prescribed medication. 
Legal and General said although Mr N was not diagnosed  with COPD until the day after the 
policy application was made, it makes  it clear that theres  a duty for consumers to tell it about  
any changes to their health up until the policy start date. It also said it sent Mr N a document 
called checking your details, which gave a list of all the questions  and answers  from Mr N. 
Legal and General said it asked Mr N to read and amend this, if necessary, but it didnt 
receive it back from him. 
Ref: DRN76185632Legal and General said if it had known about the COPD diagnosis or the memory problems it 
wouldnt have offered Mr N critical illness cover. It said the facts suggest  Mr N was aware  
the answers he gave  were wrong. In these circumstances, Legal and General decided  to 
cancel the policy from when it started  and refund all the premiums paid. 
Mr N was unhappy and complained to Legal and General about the claim being turned 
down. He also felt Legal and General was suggesting he lied to it. 
Legal and General didnt  uphold Mr Ns complaint.  It reiterated  what  it said when  it turned 
down Mr Ns claim. Legal and General said it had classified Mr Ns misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless.  It said this is when the customer knew  or must have known that the 
information given  was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer. It said if it had been aware 
of the symptoms mentioned and the COPD  diagnosis, it wouldve asked for a report from 
Mr Ns doctor.  And, on receipt of this, cover would  have been declined.  And this means there  
wouldnt have been a policy for Mr N to make  a claim on now. 
Mr N remained  unhappy and so brought the complaint to us. He said he went to see his GP 
the day after he applied  for the policy because he had a chest infection and was having 
some problems with his memory. He said a nurse diagnosed him with having COPD, but he 
said he wasnt aware of this at the time.  And he said this is why he didnt disclose it. Mr N 
said hes recently been told COPD was misdiagnosed and the difficulty  breathing was due to 
a failing heart valve. 
Mr N said he was unhappy Legal and General had suggested he lied and provided the 
wrong information to the IFA in order to take out the policy. Mr N said he cant  be sure what 
questions he was asked  by the IFA when  he completed the policy  application.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and upheld it. He said although Legal and 
General would have declined  cover  if they had known about Mr Ns medical issues,  Mr N 
already had an identical policy with Legal  and General and it seems likely he wouldve 
retained his old policy.  And, had this happened, Mr Ns claim wouldve been considered in 
the usual way.
Our investigator said as Legal and General already had a live policy for Mr N set up on the 
same terms,  he thinks it ought to take into account  the re-brokering of its own policy by the 
IFA. He said that while  Legal and General isnt responsible for re-brokering the policy, Mr N 
has been disadvantaged by Legal and General not being aware their own policy  was being 
churned in this way. He said this has led to an unfair outcome for Mr N. Our investigator 
recommended Legal  and General reinstate the old policy and consider Mr Ns claim.  
Legal and General did not agree with the outcome.  It said it cannot  pay a claim under the 
new policy because it would never have gone on risk, or under the old policy because it was 
cancelled. It also said it cannot  comment further on the sales  process  because  its not 
responsible for the sale. It asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.  So the 
complaint came to me for a decision. 
I contacted Mr N and asked for more information about what  medical  disclosures were  
made. He said he told the IFA he was currently undergoing further tests with regards to the 
chest infection he was taking antibiotics for. He said he wasnt  aware of the COPD diagnosis  
and so couldnt let the IFA know about  this. Mr N said he disclosed all known health  
conditions. He also said Legal and General were aware Ms L suffered from asthma / COPD 
and proceeded  with the application regardless.
Ref: DRN76185633I issued a provisional decision on 6 May 2020 and indicated that I intended to come to a 
different outcome to that of the investigator  and I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint. This 
was because I was satisfied Mr N made  a careless  misrepresentation and so would not have 
been offered any critical illness cover  by Legal  and General, if it had known the details of his 
recent visit to his GP.
I also said I could see Legal  and General wouldve given  Mr N life cover,  subject to an extra  
premium. And Ms L would  still have been  covered. So I thought Legal and General should 
allow Mr N the opportunity to continue the policy providing life cover only  taking into 
account the extra premium he ought  to have paid for this cover. Legal and General had 
already offered to allow Ms L to continue the policy  with the same  cover.  This was subject to 
Mr N and Ms L wanting to keep  the policy going and returning the premiums owed to date.
I gave both parties until 6 June 2020  to respond with any further comments.  
Legal and General responded and said it accepted  my findings. It said its retrospective 
underwriting decision,  taking into account  that Mr N is a smoker and was diagnosed with 
COPD, is to offer cover  with a rating  of + 250%. It said it already offered Ms L the 
opportunity to continue  with the policy on a single life basis  some time ago, but it didnt 
receive a response  and so refunded her premiums. But it said its prepared to allow  joint life 
cover to continue.  Legal and General said its not possible for Ms L to have  critical illness 
cover, as it doesnt  offer joint policies where only one applicant  has critical illness cover.   
Mr N also responded. He said it seems unfair that Legal and General declined to offer him a 
policy, when it offered a policy to Ms L who is a smoker and who also disclosed she has 
COPD / asthma.  Mr N also confirmed that he and Ms L do not want to accept any sort of 
insurance cover from Legal and General.  He said they would find it difficult  to make the lump 
sum premium payment and have also lost faith in Legal and General. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ns 
complaint. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made,  
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether Legal and General acted fairly  when  it said Mr N made a misrepresentation, 
when it classified the misrepresentation as deliberate  / reckless  and when it voided the 
policy.
Mr N cannot be expected to provide information that he wasnt  asked  for, so I need to be 
satisfied that the relevant questions were  clear and unambiguous. And, having read the 
Ref: DRN76185634application documents, Im satisfied that the questions were phrased clearly  enough that a 
reasonable consumer should have known what information was being requested. 
But Mr N didnt fill out the application  form himself.  Mr N completed  the policy application 
over the phone with an IFA, who was an agent working for him rather than for Legal and 
General. The recording  of Mr Ns phone call is not available and this means  I have no way of 
knowing whether  he was asked the questions in the way Legal and General phrased them 
and intended them to be asked. 
However, Mr N said when  he first spoke to the IFA he told him he had a chest infection, was 
taking antibiotics  and was awaiting further tests. He also disclosed  a range of other health 
issues and these other health  issues  were  disclosed to Legal and General by the IFA. So 
although I dont  know how the questions were  phrased by the IFA, Im satisfied Mr N was 
asked to provide  some  information about health  issues.  
Mr N said he didnt go back to the IFA to let him know what  happened during the GP 
appointment the day after the policy application, because he said no concerns were raised 
following the memory test and he wasnt  told about the COPD diagnosis.  
So, from Mr Ns account, the IFA was aware that he had a chest  infection  and was awaiting 
further tests and didnt put this information  on the application form. And Mr N didnt disclose 
the COPD  diagnosis because  he didnt  know about it. 
However, when Mr Ns application was submitted to Legal and General, it sent him copies of 
the application and confirm  your details  declarations. This was so he could check the 
accuracy of the application paperwork. And he had a responsibility  to do this, to ensure what 
was being submitted on his behalf was correct. But these werent returned to Legal  and 
General. If Mr N had checked the paperwork then its likely  he would have spotted any errors 
or omissions, including  the chest infection he said was disclosed  to the IFA.
To sum up, although I cant  be certain  how the relevant questions were  put to Mr N, Im 
satisfied he was made aware of the need  to disclose some medical information. Mr N didnt 
return the necessary  declarations to Legal  and General to confirm the accuracy of his 
application. And, as a result, Legal and General was not provided with accurate information 
about Mr Ns health. So Im satisfied that Legal  and General  acted fairly when it said a 
misrepresentation happened. 
The next question  is whether Legal and General dealt fairly with the misrepresentation when 
it said it was deliberate / reckless and cancelled the policy. Legal  and General said that if it 
had known about Mr Ns diagnosis of COPD it wouldnt  have offered him the policy.  And, 
having seen the underwriting criteria,  Im satisfied this is the case.  
But Mr N told this service he didnt know about  the COPD  diagnosis.  As I wasnt  party  to this 
conversation I have no way of knowing  what was said during the appointment between Mr N 
and his GP. But Im satisfied that if Legal  and General had known  only about his chest  
infection and that he was awaiting further  tests, he still wouldnt have been  offered a policy 
immediately. Legal and General would most likely  have waited for the outcome of those  tests  
and this would have meant  it finding out about the diagnosis of COPD. So Im satisfied it was 
a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Legal and General classified the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless but I dont think 
this was fair. Im satisfied the misrepresentation was careless.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN76185635Mr N already had an existing policy with Legal and General when the application was made 
for this new policy. And while the new policy was going to cost him a little less every  month,  
the sum assured was also less. So he had very little to gain by swapping  policies. Im 
satisfied that if Mr N thought he might  not have been  given  the new policy  because  of an 
ongoing medical condition, then I think he would  have  simply kept the earlier policy.  So I 
dont think the new policy provided enough of a benefit that Mr N would  have deliberately 
misrepresented to get it. 
Given all of the above, Im satisfied  that Mr N made  a careless misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy with Legal  and General in October 2017.  Where there is a careless 
misrepresentation, CIDRA allows Legal and General to take whatever action it would have 
taken at the time if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. Legal and General has shown 
that it wouldnt have  offered  Mr N any critical illness cover. So, Im satisfied a claim  wouldnt  
have been paid.
But, since  the provisional decision was issued, Legal and General has confirmed its able to 
offer joint life cover to Mr N and Ms L. This has been declined by Mr N and Ms L and so I 
wont be asking Legal and General to do anything else in relation to setting up joint life 
cover. 
I know Mr N said it seems likely he was misdiagnosed with COPD  and that the 
breathlessness he was experiencing was caused  by his heart condition. And I think  he was 
hoping this might make  a difference  to the outcome of his complaint. But Im satisfied  it 
doesnt. The information that Mr N should  have provided relates to his contact with his GP in 
October 2017. That fact that he visited his GP and was diagnosed,  at that point in time, with 
borderline COPD isnt changed by a later suggestion of a misdiagnosis.  
Mr N also thought Legal and General wasnt acting fairly when it declined  cover for him 
because of the COPD diagnosis, when he said Ms L also disclosed COPD / asthma but was 
offered cover.  I dont intend to make any findings in relation to this point, as the cover  offered 
to Ms L is not the subject of this complaint. But, for the sake  of completeness,  Ill address the 
point. From what I can see, Ms L disclosed that she suffers from asthma. And its my 
understanding that asthma and COPD are dealt  with differently at the underwriting stage. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7618563