K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that a finance agreement he took out with BMW  Financial Services  (GB)  
Limited (BMWFS)  was unaffordable and that the money shouldnt have been lent to him.
background
Mr N took receipt of a used car in September 2017. He financed  the deal through  a 60 
month hire purchase agreement for £53,303.80 with a monthly repayment of £888.33. 
He later voluntarily terminated the agreement and was disappointed  to be asked to pay a 
shortfall. His complaint  was referred to this service where our investigator discussed the 
issue with Mr N in more  detail. She noted that he believed the finance agreement was too 
expensive and that he hadnt had a care co-ordinator at the time to explain the implication of 
the borrowing. She said when a care coordinator was assigned  she did notice that the 
monthly payments  were high.
So she considered whether the agreement had been unaffordable for Mr N and whether the 
finance should have been provided. She asked BMWFS to tell her about the checks theyd 
performed. They said the information provided  by Mr N suggested he could afford  the 
repayments but the investigator noted that they didnt  provide this information. She 
understood that BMWFS  had explained Mr N had been able to manage repayments  on an 
earlier agreement but she wasnt provided with details of that agreement. BMWFS didnt  
think they had to run an income and expenditure analysis but the investigator  thought  that in 
the absence of that analysis the checks BMWFS performed were insufficient.  
So she went on to check what BMWFS wouldve found had they performed sufficient 
checks.  She  considered Mr Ns bank statements for the three  months before he signed  the 
finance agreement  with BMWFS. She noted that his main source of income was from 
Employment Support Allowance and Personal  Independence Payments and overall  it was 
reasonable to suggest his disposable monthly  income was only about £168.  She said it was 
therefore clear that he couldnt have afforded the agreement  he signed with BMWFS  and it 
was therefore  mis-sold  to him.
She said Mr N should be put back in the position  he wouldve been in if he hadnt taken out 
his borrowing. He should remain liable for the cost of the car but not the cost of the 
borrowing (the interest). She said as the hire agreement should  never  have been  approved  
the settlement  cost of the voluntary termination  should be removed. Mr N should also 
receive a refund equivalent to 13 months  interest which she said had been paid from the 
start of the agreement  until the agreement was voluntarily  terminated. BMWFS  should  also 
remove any adverse information  they may have  reported to Mr Ns credit  file in relation to 
this agreement and they should  pay him £200  to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
 
BMWFS didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mr N had kept up payments of £500  
per month on a previous agreement hed had with them. They said theyd carried out all of 
the checks required of them  by their regulator the Financial Conduct Authority and they 
insisted there was no requirement  for them to complete an income and expenditure analysis. 
So they asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN78200382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable.
BMWFS have explained that the underwriters  notes say Mr N was auto accepted.  They 
say he was an A1 payer  on his previous agreement and provided all the detail they needed  
to establish he could afford the repayments  on this deal.  Theyve not provided any further  
information about the detail they were  given by Mr N.
In deciding what affordability checks BMWFS should have done, I have had regard to the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (usually known as CONC), issued by the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA). CONC 5.2.3 says that checks should be proportionate to the applicants 
credit history  and financial position and the type, amount and cost of credit being  applied  for.
CONC 5.2.4(3) says that the information a lender should consider may, depending on the 
circumstances, include some or all of the following:  
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and 
(f) information provided by the customer.
Ive seen that BMWFS considered (a) and they say they considered (f) but Ive not seen 
evidence of that. This was, I think its reasonable to say, a significant amount of credit  and a 
significant increase  in monthly payments. I dont think BMWFS have provided  sufficient 
information here to demonstrate their checks were  sufficient.
Ive reviewed Mr Ns bank  statements and I agree  with the investigator that his monthly 
disposable income was a way short of enabling  him to afford the £888.33 monthly payments 
due on this new agreement. So I think BMWFS need to put things right and having reviewed 
the investigators suggested settlement,  that I set out in the background to this complaint,  I 
think its fair and Im asking BMWFS to comply  with it.
Its the finance that has been mis-sold not the car it funded so Mr N should receive a refund 
of the interest  that was collected on that agreement. I agree that the interest  paid up until 
voluntary termination  should be returned  to him. 
Ref: DRN78200383Its clear that Mr N has been inconvenienced here.  Hes provided detail of his ill health and 
Im persuaded this matter would have exacerbated it. I think BMWFS  could have resolved 
things quicker and its right that they pay Mr N some compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced. In the circumstances I agree that £200 is 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
terminate the agreement and collect the car, if thats not already been done, at no 
cost to Mr N
waive the voluntary  termination settlement 
refund  13 months of interest for the period  prior to voluntary termination and add 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in respect of 
this agreement
pay Mr N £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7820038