K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has poorly handled a claim 
they made under their buildings  insurance  policy.
background
A lot has happened in this case since UKI was first notified of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And 
to be clear, this background isnt intended  to set out every event in detail. Instead Ive 
given a summarised timeline  of events, and of what happened since  they brought their 
complaint to our service.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs Ms utility provider fitted  a new boiler in their home. In July 2016  
Mr and Mrs M noticed a related leak in their loft. Water had leaked  from the overflow pipe 
into the loft, soaking the insulation and plasterboard  ceiling.  Water had also soaked into 
the airing cupboard on the first floor.
In July 2016 Mr and Mrs M contacted UKI to notify it of the claim. UKI sent its loss adjuster 
to assess the damage, it then appointed a firm to complete the works and its surveyor 
assessed what works needed to be done.
Mr and Mrs M complained of multiple  issues, saying UKIs actions exacerbated Mrs Ms 
asthma, as well as saying it caused  delays in finding  them alternative accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs M were  later given an empty property that UKI had furnished with rented 
furniture. Around  this time Mr and Mrs Ms furniture and contents  were put into storage 
by UKI. This was with the intention of later cleaning  and returning these items.
Our service previously considered a complaint about  the events around  this time under a 
different reference  in July 2017.  The investigator considered alternative accommodation, 
poor workmanship and customer service, drying works and damp, and damage to carpets. 
The investigator agreed that UKIs  offer of £675 in compensation  was fair and it should 
carry out specialist  testing of their property. This complaint  was closed shortly after. So I 
wont be revisiting these  events in detail or making  further findings  on these issues.
UKI appointed Company A to inspect Mr and Mrs Ms home. Around  this time an 
environmental buildings report was produced by a specialist in that field. This report 
assessed the level of moisture in the property, as well as damage  to items in storage.  
UKI agreed  to pay for the costs of the initial report and for a follow up visit once the 
works had been  completed. This was to the value of around £4,900.
In September  2017, while in alternative accommodation, Mrs M became  very ill and was 
rushed to hospital. She was diagnosed with sepsis, spending around ten days  in 
hospital.
In early 2018, UKI said it paid Mr and Mrs M the sum it believed  was needed for the work 
on their house to be completed. UKI said it made  this decision due to the delays in 
completing the work and its contractors having difficulty accessing the house.
Ref: DRN77639202Mr and Mrs M complained to UKI in February 2018,  raising concerns about one its 
contractors in place  at the time,  Company B. They raised concerns about the quality and 
standard of the building work. But UKI said delays were caused as Mr and Mrs M hadnt 
permitted Company B to complete the works. Mr and Mrs M disputed  this and denied  
theyd ever stopped  access  to the entire house   just certain rooms.
Following this UKI gave  Mr and Mrs M the option  of UKI instructing a new contractor to 
inspect the works. Company C was then instructed. UKI said there were some difficulties in 
arranging an inspection,  but this took place on 20 April 2018.  A week  later Company C 
provided UKI with a draft scope of work. Costs were estimated and sent to Mr and Mrs M 
on 11 May 2018.
In June 2018 UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs M. It said itd cash  settled the claim but it was 
aware that no progress  had been made by Mr and Mrs M in booking  their preferred 
contractor to complete  the works. It said it had covered the alternative  accommodation  
costs up until 3 August  2018 and as a gesture  of goodwill would extend this to 3 
September 2018. It said this same timeframe  also applied to Mr and Mrs Ms items  in 
storage and theyd  become liable for any costs after this time.
In July 2018 UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs M again, reiterating that it hoped works  were 
underway and said to avoid any costs it suggested  they have the works completed as 
a matter of priority, ensuring they vacate  their accommodation by this date.
Soon after Mr and Mrs M responded to say theyd  yet to receive payment of £5,361 to 
instruct their own builders. They also raised  concerns  about  the work  completed by the 
previous contractor, and said the costs UKI quoted  didnt cover  the entirety of the works. 
So they asked  for their accommodation and rented furniture to be extended until October 
2018.
Around this time in July 2018 Mr and Mrs M made their second complaint to our service. 
They were  unhappy  with the quality  of repair works  and said two years on after the damage 
they still werent in their home. They said there were still damp spores  in the property, and 
that the stress of the claim  had caused Mrs M to leave  her job. In August 2018 Mr M and 
Mrs M told our service theyd calculated that their works would take around six months.
UKI responded and said again it would  stop paying  for alternative accommodation costs 
in September  2018. It said itd cash settled and paid the claim to cover  the relevant 
costs, as well as allowed  enough time for Mr and Mrs M to organise the repairs.
Our investigator looked at what happened and said UKI should  extend the alternative 
accommodation until January 2019.  He said UKI had failed to make all the necessary 
payments on time to allow Mr and Mrs M to arrange completion of the works. This was 
because Company C had identified that a further  £5,361 was needed  to cover all 
necessary costs, and this hadnt been paid until 10 August 2018. And because  of this, he 
said UKI should provide Mr and Mrs M with further time to have the work completed.
Mr and Mrs M said the amount paid by UKI didnt reflect the cost of the building work to 
them and provided a quote  from their builder. This was around £20,000 higher than UKIs 
quote for the repair work.
Ref: DRN77639203Given the difference in cost UKI initially agreed  to appoint an independent  surveyor  to 
assess the cost of the repair  work.  Mr and Mrs M expressed their concerns about the list 
of surveyors provided and wanted  to source  their own.
There was an ongoing dispute on this topic until February 2019 when UKI said it would 
meet the cost set out in Mr and Mrs Ms builders quote  Company D. It said it made this 
commercial decision to focus on getting  the claim settled and Mr and Mrs M back  in their 
home. And it said disputing the value of this repair work would only draw this out further. It 
asked that Mr and Mrs M seek an up-to-date quote  from their builder for the works and it 
would organise  the payment of this.
Mr and Mrs M summarised  their concerns to our service again. Saying they felt UKI was 
responsible for Mrs Ms loss of employment, as well as hindering Mr Ms career due to 
the ongoing stress.  They said the experience and having to project  manage  their own 
repairs had also severely affected their home  lives and activities, as well as other issues  
such as their garden becoming  overgrown in the time theyd been away  from the 
property.
UKI also said it could see that because of the time this claim had taken, thered been 
a significant impact on Mr and Mrs M and it offered £3,500 to reflect this distress  and 
inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs M provided an updated  quote  for the works at the end of March  2019 and UKI 
made the full payment for the building  works  in early  April 2019.  UKI also agreed to 
continue paying  for the alternative accommodation  costs until 3 August 2019.
By June  2019  it was apparent the building work wouldnt  be completed by this date, and 
UKI agreed  it had delayed  an initial  payment  which impacted  the start date of the works. So 
it agreed to extend  accommodation to 3 September 2019 but said it wouldnt be prepared 
to extend beyond this point  allowing around five months for the work to be completed.
The works were all completed in July 2019   bar snagging issues.
In August  2019  UKI said it no longer would agree to pay the costs of cleaning  and returning 
Mr and Mrs Ms furniture  and contents. Instead it said it would cash settle to the value of 
the items  on receipt  of estimates provided  by Mr and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy 
with the time it took UKI to reach  this decision. They said this would cause them further  
delays and it would take time to order and receive new furniture,  so for this reason and 
others UKI should  extend their alternative accommodation for another  six months.
UKI said it had given Mr and Mrs M ample opportunity to arrange for the repairs  to be 
completed. And subject to the findings  of the follow up specialist  report  it believed their 
house was fit for habitation so there was no reason they couldnt  move back  in. And if there  
were any snagging  issues, these could be addressed while they were  in situ.
Mr and Mrs M had said the next steps  hinged on arranging the specialist visit that wasnt 
available for some time.  At this time our service contacted the specialist to see if they 
were able to visit the property any sooner   which they were.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed  
that they should be immediately available for an appointment given the delays they said 
UKI had caused.
Ref: DRN77639204Our service had previously tried to mediate on this matter, but because parties didnt 
agree the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
On 22 August 2019 I issued my provisional thoughts  on the complaint explaining I 
intended to uphold the complaint. Ive included my comments below:
Within this case Ive been  asked to consider UKIs actions throughout this claim,  and 
specifically whether it should  continue  paying for Mr and Mrs Ms alternative 
accommodation costs,  and how it has chosen  to settle their contents claim. Ive considered  
each part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in turn.
alternative accommodation and building works
When settling a buildings claim, Mr and Mrs Ms policy says UKI can choose whether to:
manage and pay for repairing or rebuilding the damaged part using our 
own suppliers
pay to repair or rebuild the damaged  part using  your suppliers, or
make  a cash payment
UKI previously made unsuccessful attempts to repair Mr and Mrs Ms property. And in 
February 2019 UKI agreed for Mr and Mrs Ms contractors to complete the works, and it 
said it would  cover all reasonable associated costs.  Im satisfied this decision was made in 
line with the policy terms above.
Typically cash  settling  a claim would remove any further liability from an insurers  
involvement in the claim. This is typically  because the insurer  has no oversight or 
control over the quality  of works, or for the timeframes for its completion.
But in this case, given the previous  dispute, UKI agreed to continue paying alternative  
accommodation. I think this was reasonable given the previous delays and background  
leading to this decision. UKI said it estimated the works would take around five weeks.  
But Mr and Mrs Ms contractor instead  suggested  the works could take up to 10 weeks.
Mr and Mrs Ms contractors finished its works  (with the exception  of snagging issues) in 
July 2019. And their alternative accommodation  is due to end at the start of September 
2019.
Mr and Mrs M believe it wouldnt be safe for them to move back  into this property until it is 
reviewed by the environmental specialist.  Theyve  said this is because  of the potential 
health implications  for Mrs M. So theyve  asked for the accommodation to be extended  for 
a further six months.  They say this would allow them time to have their specialist review the 
home, provide  a full report,  then arrange  for flooring to be fitted.
UKI has said its not prepared to extend its alternative accommodation costs beyond  3 
September 2019, and it said the follow up specialist report isnt required to confirm the 
property is safe  given Mr and Mrs Ms contractors  have  signed off the building. So UKI 
said there shouldnt  be any further  delay for Mr and Mrs M moving back  into their home.
Ref: DRN77639205To understand the impact  of this, Ive carefully reviewed the very detailed specialist report. 
Ive seen nothing  within this to suggest the specialist believes theres a risk to health by 
moving in before a follow up report is completed. Under a section titled Further 
Inspection/Monitoring It says that following the completion of the works they recommend 
to carry out a further survey so that appropriate actions can then be put in place to 
manage the indoor environment for pest and mould contamination and other 
environmental conditions,  if deemed  necessary.
The wording  used by the specialist doesnt  suggest to me theres a risk to health or that 
this is necessary. In itself its a recommendation that mentions helping  to manage issues,  
if necessary. So this report and expert opinion doesnt persuade me that Mr and Mrs M 
are unable to move  back into their property.
Ive also considered that the schedule of works  and its completion date had been arranged 
by Mr and Mrs M with their selected  contractor.  This means theyve had oversight of the 
works and estimated time frames for completion. The works were all completed  in July 
2019 (bar snagging issues).
And in light of the time frames involved  and the significance Mr and Mrs M have placed on 
having the specialist return before they move back in, Ive thought  about  whether they 
couldve arranged this themselves any earlier. And given  they had the timeframes, and 
UKI had already given them the funds  to pay for the visit, I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs 
M couldve  arranged the specialist visit shortly  after completion.
So even if I felt there was a risk to health   which currently Im not persuaded there  is  Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs M had time to arrange  this visit and havent. So I dont  think  UKI 
should be responsible for any further alternative accommodation costs beyond  3 
September 2019. And if Mr and Mrs M do decide to stay in alternative accommodation until 
this specialist report is completed, I would expect them to do this at their own cost.
contents claim
From 2016  UKI said it would store Mr and Mrs Ms damaged items with the intent of 
cleaning and returning these when the building works were completed.
In August  2019  it instead decided to cash settle for these items instead, and said it would 
do so on receipt of an itemised  list. UKI said it made this decision because  the items in 
storage hadnt  yet been assessed to be cleaned. And it said with alternative 
accommodation due to finish in September 2019  it felt cash settling  would be the best 
option for Mr and Mrs M. And it said this because a cash settlement would allow them  to 
furnish their home using  the funds to avoid any further delay that may be caused by 
cleaning the items.
So when considering whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into account  the policy 
terms. These say when settling a contents  claim, UKI can choose  whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would 
have cost to replace  or repair using our own suppliers,  or
make a cash payment
Ref: DRN77639206This means  UKI can decide at its own discretion  how to settle  a contents claim. So while  
Mr and Mrs M have  said it has incurred costs  storing these items for several years only to 
settle the claim, this is UKIs commercial decision to make. And Im satisfied UKI is able to 
cash settle this part of the claim  in line with its policy terms.
However Ive also considered the practical  impact of this decision on Mr and Mrs M and 
whether this is fair and reasonable. UKI is ending Mr and Mr Ms alternative 
accommodation on 3 September 2019   which Ive agreed is fair above. This means UKI 
has given Mr and Mrs M around a month in total to provide a list of their damaged items, 
make its cash  settlement and then allow them  to replace their furniture.  I can appreciate 
Mr and Mrs M havent seen these items for some  time while  theyve been  in storage. And 
theyve said the storage  facility requires two weeks notice ahead  of visitation. So I think  its 
reasonable to consider that this will impact  their ability to produce and provide a list to UKI 
immediately.
I think its also widely acknowledged that purchasing furniture can take time.  Items such as 
sofas often can take months to be produced and delivered. Mr and Mrs M have provided 
websites screenshots  of popular furniture stores that suggest production and delivery could  
take up to 12 weeks.  While there are companies that could provide this faster, I understand 
Mr and Mrs M want to use companies  that will provide a similar  quality items as they 
previously had. And I think this is reasonable given  their policy  would provide items as 
new.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that a practical solution  to this would be for UKI to extend  the 
period of time it has offered  its rented  furniture  pack  the items theyre currently  using in 
their alternative accommodation.  And having  considered this, I agree this is a fair solution  to 
allow Mr and Mrs M reasonable time to furnish  their home.
So Im intending  to ask UKI to extend  the rented furniture pack (including moving costs of 
these items), or alternatively  provide an equivalent  furniture  pack  for their home  for an 
additional sixteen  weeks from 3 September 2019.  Im satisfied this period of time would 
allow Mr and Mrs M to gain access  to their stored items, document  their losses,  provide 
this to UKI, and for it to settle this claim in turn.
On receipt of a reasonable list of like-for-like replacements, Id expect UKI to make 
payment as soon  as possible to allow Mr and Mrs M as much time as possible to replace 
their furniture. If this does not take place due to any delays that Im satisfied were caused 
by UKI, I may reconsider this timeframe. However,  if any delays are caused by 
Mr and Mrs M I do not intend on extending  this furniture pack  any longer.
To my knowledge, UKI has not sought  to reclaim the damaged  items  in storage. Given  its 
UKIs indecision  about  how to settle  the contents  aspect of the claim,  and what Mr and 
Mrs M have  said,  its clear  to me their expectations have been mismanaged.  So 
considering Mr and Mrs M are now unlikely to recover all of their original items, Im 
intending to ask UKI to pay for the ongoing  storage costs until one month after the 
documented list has been received.  This should  allow Mr and Mrs M the opportunity to 
retain any items they wish on top of the cash settlement. After  this month, Id expect UKI 
to cover the cost of disposal of these remaining items.
I concluded, saying  that I intended to ask UKI to do the following:
Ref: DRN77639207extend the rented furniture pack (including  moving costs  of these items), or 
alternatively provide  an equivalent  furniture pack for their home  for an 
additional sixteen  weeks from 3 September 2019;
pay for the ongoing storage costs  until one month after the documented list has 
been received;
pay for the disposal of the remaining items  one month after receipt of an itemised  
bill from Mr and Mrs M;
settle the contents items on a like-for-like  basis on receipt of an itemised  list 
of damaged items (subject to policy limits and terms).
Following this both parties responded. UKI said it agreed with my decision.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and said my review  was inaccurate and inadequate,  saying 
they didnt believe  Id either  read or considered  their evidence. Theyve explained  in 
detail their reasons  which Ive summarised below:
Mr and Mrs M feel Ive missed out or not placed  enough weight on events that 
happened across  the life of their claim, especially during  the earlier  parts  of the 
claim.
UKI was responsible for considerable delays due to its choice of 
independent inspectors  as well as not providing  them with the funds until 
March 2019.
The phrase distress  and inconvenience  Id used was not reflective of the 
impact these events have had on their lives.
Mr and Mrs M have  commented and criticised  the quotes  UKI sought to 
previously rely on.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my findings  on the specialist  report and said they 
do not feel I understood the content.
Mrs Ms doctor wrote to us to highlight the significance  of Mrs Ms asthma and 
said they strongly feel the specialist testing needed to be carried  out. They  also 
mentioned the impact  it was having  on her mental health.
Mr and Mrs M wrote to us on 20 September 2019  to explain the work had been completed 
on the house. And that the flooring  would  be completed once the specialist report  
confirmed everything  was clean.
On 26 September  Mr and Mrs M told us the specialist report was completed and showed 
samples taken from their loft showed  higher levels of mould  spores than would be 
acceptable. As a result  they said theyd be unable  to return to their property until the 
entire home was at safe levels. And as UKIs contractor  had completed  the previous 
treatment on the property, they felt the responsibility still sat with it to put things right.
The specialist report was provided to UKI for its comments. UKI said in November 2017 its 
contractor had successfully completed decontamination  works  in Mr and Mrs Ms home. 
This involved removal of all ceilings  along  the first floor of the property, and the insulation in 
the loft was already removed. It said an air scrubber was placed on the first floor below  the 
loft hatch (left open) which wouldve collected  all of the spores.
Ref: DRN77639208UKI said the most recent specialist report concludes that the mould  spores in the roof 
space is attributable to the property being  left unoccupied  which  it agrees with. So it said 
the present mould isnt attributable to the escape of water  claim from July 2016, and in turn 
it doesnt have  any obligation to meet any further  costs.
UKI concluded Mr and Mrs M caused the delays that led to the lack of occupation, so it 
was their responsibility to carry  out any further  works.  And it said it was Mr and Mrs Ms 
contractors who carried out the repair works for the home following the cash settlement, 
so any further problems should be taken  up with them directly.
UKI also made a number  of points about the life of the claim that Ive detailed  below.
UKI said that Mr and Mrs Ms proposed works totalled £31,083.38   over £20,000 
more than the costs  calculated  by its own surveyor. It said this comprised of 
repetition of works its own contractor  had already completed and betterment.  UKI 
said only £700 of Mr and Mrs Ms costs were appropriate. To reach a resolution  it 
said it agreed with our investigators  direction  to have a single expert produce a 
priced scope of works. But it said Mr and Mrs Ms ongoing objections caused  
further delays  it decided to settle the sum in full, despite not being obliged  to do so. 
UKI said Mr and Mrs Ms quote later increased  by a further £2,295.60 without 
explanation which  it still paid to bring  the matter to a conclusion.
UKI said it paid the deposit for Mr and Mrs Ms alternative accommodation, which 
it said they would be entitled to at the end of the tenancy providing the terms 
were observed.
In relation  to Mr and Mrs Ms garden, UKI said its policy doesnt include cover for a 
gardener and said if it was overgrown this was due to a lack of maintenance  
which it suggested Mr and Mrs M couldve  done  as they were less than three miles 
away.
Mr and Mrs M had asked UKI for the costs of a laptop computer  within their list of 
expenses. UKI said Mr and Mrs M had a computer  in storage, and while  notice 
would have to be given to the storage before  collecting it, itd been given no reason 
why they couldnt  have  retrieved this instead.
UKI said overall  it has spent around  six times the cost it would normally spend on 
a claim such as this, and this illustrates  the efforts it has gone  to when attempting 
to progress and resolve the matter.
UKI said it has paid Mr and Mrs M £253  to clean their sofas, £1,000 for replacement 
wardrobes, £1,000 for costs to clean  their items in storage. And since 27 June 2019  
it has sought estimates from Mr and Mrs M of the replacement costs for their items 
in storage  having  received nothing to date.
UKI said following my PD direction, it extended the furniture pack  hire until 3 
January 2020.  This was to cover  their use of the furniture in their own home,  and 
not their alternative  accommodation  but as Mr and Mrs M have refused to return 
this hasnt been possible.
UKI concluded that it had offered every assistance to help Mr and Mrs M return to their 
home and therefore  discharged its obligations  under  the insurance policy. While it accepted 
there were elements of the claim that it couldve handled better, it said it has tried to rectify  
mistakes as soon as it was aware of them. And that it was Mr and Mrs Ms inaction that has 
prevented resolution  of the claim.
Ref: DRN77639209UKI also reviewed a letter from Mrs Ms doctor.  UKI said this referred  to Mrs Ms admission 
into hospital in September  2017 with sepsis.  It noted that shed be living in alternative 
accommodation for over a year by this point so did not see a link between  her illness and 
their home, so did not believe  this highlighted any mistake on its part.
On 6 February 2020 I issued another provisional  decision, commenting on the information 
Id received from both parties and explaining  why I intended to uphold  the complaint. Ive 
included my comments below:
alternative accommodation and building works
Within my provisional decision I explained  that I wasnt persuaded the evidence  provided 
showed there was a risk to Mr and Mrs Ms health. And I said even if it did suggest this, 
Mr and Mrs M had been given enough time to arrange this visit and didnt. So I didnt think  
UKI should be responsible for further  accommodation costs  beyond September 2019.
I also explained  that if Mr and Mrs M did decide to stay in alternative accommodation 
until this specialist  report  was completed, Id expect them  to do this at their own cost. 
Ive been given nothing to change  my mind on this.
However for completeness I will comment on the evidence thats been provided  since.
Mr and Mrs M have  since provided a copy of the specialist report which theyve  said 
shows the house would be a danger  to their health  to return. And a letter  from their GP 
that supports  that the testing should  be completed prior to their return.
Given Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about my understanding of specialist reports I spoke to 
the doctor who produced it myself. I said my understanding was there were problems in 
the loft, but not in the rest of the property. So I asked his opinion on whether he felt Mr and 
Mrs M would  be able to return to the property but avoid the loft until any treatment was 
complete.
The doctor confirmed  hes not qualified to comment on whether Mrs M would be safe to 
return to the property as this is not his area of expertise.  From my reading of the report  
it clearly highlights that higher levels are only found in the loft  nowhere else in the 
home including areas  beneath the loft hatch.
Mr and Mrs M have  said any higher levels in the home overall would put her health at 
risk. And Mrs Ms GP commented  on the significance of completing  the report, but not on 
the reports findings. So Ive been  given no medical evidence to support their concerns.
The report  says:
This investigation has revealed that there were no reservoirs of mould  spores and 
particulate matter contamination in the monitored locations in the property except in 
the roof space  monitoring location.
It goes on to say:
Ref: DRN776392010The high levels of mould  spores in the roof space may be due a number of reasons, 
for example;
residual spores due to the original incident  of escape of water in the loft during  
July 2016,
the building not being occupied for over a number of years creating ideal 
environmental conditions within the property for the growth  and proliferation  of 
mould.
The doctor concludes  We were given  to understand that mould  remediation  works were 
carried out to the property  and therefore  the most  likely  reason  for high levels  of residual  
mould spores in the roof space may be due to building not being occupied  for over a 
number of years.
UKI said it agrees  with the doctors  findings that the levels are higher due to lack of 
occupation. And based on what  Ive seen I see no reason to doubt  the doctors 
conclusion. Mr and Mrs M have gone  on to give their own reasons why UKI should  go on 
to take responsibility  for this  theyve  said the lack of occupancy  was down to UKIs 
delays.
Overall Im not persuaded  that UKI has any further  responsibility for repairs or any further 
work to Mr and Mrs Ms property  even  in light of delays. From the evidence  Ive seen 
Im satisfied UKIs contractors carried out treatment previously, and the most likely 
reason for further spores is lack of occupancy.
And as Ive said above, and in my provisional  decision, in any case I believe Mr and Mrs M 
couldve taken steps earlier  to get back into their home. So Im not asking UKI to do 
anything further  in regards to this. So if Mr and Mrs M do want  to carry out further  treatment 
to their loft and stay in alternative accommodation  during this time, this will need  to be at 
their own arrangement as Im not directing UKI to cover this.
contents claim
In my provisional decision I explained  that UKI had the option how to settle this claim, and 
I was satisfied that cash settling for the contents  was fair and in line with its policy terms. I 
went on to consider the practical impact and said if Mr and Mrs M were to move  back  into 
their home as UKI had suggested they would be without furniture.
So I said I thought  it would be fair for UKI to continue providing  rental  furniture to allow  
them time to purchase  what they needed.  I suggested giving them 16 weeks in light of their 
comments about the time it would take.  UKI agreed  but Mr and Mrs M didnt. And as 
theyve not moved  back into their home  this wasnt possible. To my knowledge  no furniture 
or furnishings have  been ordered by Mr and Mrs M. So Im not asking UKI to do anything  
further on this.
UKI said it was awaiting estimates of costs from Mr and Mrs M. I considered their 
comments about needing time to review their items in storage  saying it would take 
around two weeks notice ahead of visitation.  So I said it was reasonable to think  this 
timeframe would impact their ability to compile  a list. I said I was satisfied that 16 weeks  
was enough time to allow Mr and Mrs M time to gain access to the storage unit, document 
their losses  and provide  this to UKI.
Ref: DRN776392011And I said UKI should cover the ongoing  costs of the items in storage for one month  after 
the documented list had been received. This was to allow  Mr and Mrs M time to reclaim any 
items they wanted  to retain  and clean.
To my knowledge Mr and Mrs M havent visited the storage unit to inspect their items  or 
provided any list of contents  for UKI to consider. Given the time thats  passed  and Mr and 
Mrs Ms inaction I dont think it would be reasonable to expect UKI to extend  any further 
storage costs. So while Id still expect UKI to consider  estimates of Mr and Mrs Ms 
contents in the future if they were  to provide this required list  Im satisfied it has done 
what it can to try to resolve  this aspect of the claim.
overall impact and delays
Overall this claim has been ongoing for a number  of years. UKI has agreed  it has 
caused delays,  and that its actions  have had a serious impact on Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M have  said I should consider everything that happened at the start of the claim
 such as whether  UKI completed  the drying works as it shouldve.  But as Ive 
outlined above, this was already considered  by our service and UKI made an award 
of £675 to compensate them. So Im not going  to consider these points again.
To be clear, when considering the impact  of whats happened, Ive looked  at everything 
thats happened since July 2017 to date. Given everything thats happened I will be 
clear I have thoroughly  read all the evidence submitted by both parties but Ill comment  
only on
those things I consider  relevant to this decision. That means I may not comment  on some 
of the individual events or issues raised by Mr and Mrs M but I have considered  them.
Under ICOBS 8.1 UKI is required to handle claims prompt and fairly. Taking into 
account whats happened and what UKI has said, Im satisfied it hasnt met this 
obligation.
Mrs M has said as a result of the ongoing  stress and frustration of this claim, she lost her 
job and her mental health has been  severely impacted by UKIs actions. Mrs M has also 
described in detail the impact this has had on Mr M.
Claims of this nature often  will be stressful given the nature of upheaval  from a home.  And 
given the subsequent circumstances  Mr and Mrs M have  described to our service,  Mrs Ms 
health, family emergencies and others I have no doubt that this has been incredibly 
stressful and impactful for them both.
When considering  this claim, I have to consider is to what extent UKIs actions have 
contributed or exacerbated this stress,  on top of the experience theyd have gone 
through anyway  when  dealing with a claim of this nature.
Ref: DRN776392012Throughout the claim UKI has put limits  on the length of time Mr and Mrs Ms 
accommodation would be in place. On a number of occasions they were  given deadlines 
to leave the property that were subsequently moved back. UKI has since taken 
responsibility for some of these delays  for example where  it hadnt paid Mr and Mrs M 
the full sum they said they needed to begin  works.  And its clear to me that as a result,  Mr 
and Mrs M wouldve been put under an additional and avoidable  stress.
Mr and Mrs M have  indicated  they believe UKI is accountable for Mrs Ms ill health and 
subsequent loss of employment. And for the related stress that impacted Mr Ms career 
opportunities. But I dont agree. While I do not question that Mrs Ms was very unwell, it 
seems she was rushed  to hospital while shed been  in alternative accommodation for 
around a year. So based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded theres  enough to link UKI 
or the actions of its contractors to these very difficult circumstances.
Taking into account the events that followed, Mr M had to act as a carer for Mrs M for 
some time. And it seems clear to me that these pressures wouldve impacted their day to 
day lives alongside the ongoing claim.
Mr and Mrs M have  been provided  with alternative accommodation for the majority of the 
claim, which while far from ideal, was to be expected given the level of work required. But 
taking into account  they were  out of their home  for a number of years this was clearly 
longer than any party wouldve expected or what shouldve been necessary.
Mr and Mrs M have  mentioned their garden is now overgrown. Ive looked at UKIs policy  
and this isnt an insured  peril thats  covered by the policy. So I dont  think  UKI needs to 
do anything further  in regards to this. Mr and Mrs M have also asked for the cost of a 
laptop they purchased while their computer was in storage. Again, their policy  doesnt 
have a provision  for this, and Im not persuaded its a cost UKI should incur.
UKI has said it has shown willing to support Mr and Mrs M by agreeing to cash  settle this 
claim for over £20,000 above the cost it felt should be paid. Without  going  into detail on 
the dispute about the scope of works,  its clear to me that UKI did take this step to avoid 
further delays.  I think  this was a positive step and UKI did show  willingness to try to 
resolve the matter  for the benefit of Mr and Mrs M.
Overall Ive taken into account  what Mr and Mrs M have said about the impact  their lives as 
a result of this claim.  And Im very sympathetic to their situation and everything theyve 
been through. But taking  everything into account, Im not persuaded UKI was responsible 
or the cause  for each of these events and pressures although I do think  it contributed  
towards it. As a result, Im satisfied the sum of £3,500  UKI has paid to them is fair 
compensation in the circumstances, and Im not asking it to do anything  further.
I concluded, saying  I wasnt intending on asking UKI to do anything  further in relation to 
the furniture packs  or storage costs. And if Mr and Mrs M later provided an itemised list of 
damaged items (subject to policy limits  and terms) Id still expect UKI to consider this.
And I said, UKI had already made an offer and paid £3,500 to Mr and Mrs M to settle this 
complaint, and I thought this offer was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I gave both parties until 20 February 2020  to respond. Mr and Mrs M asked for a further  
week to respond which  I agreed to. This deadline has now passed.
Ref: DRN776392013UKI provided  nothing  further. Mr and Mrs M spoke to our investigator to explain they 
disagreed with my decision. Ive summarised their comments below:
Mr and Mrs M believe I have ignored parts of the specialist report  as he had given 
multiple potential  causes for the mould  in the roof space. And they reiterated that 
they believe the cause of the mould was due to UKIs previous treatment not being 
carried out correctly.
UKI never  provided  Mr and Mrs M with any protection equipment to enable  them  to 
attend the storage unit to review their items.
Mr and Mrs M believe I didnt thoroughly or fairly  consider their personal  
circumstances when  saying a 16 week timeframe  was enough to access  their 
storage unit, document their losses and provide this to UKI.
Mr and Mrs M have  since asked for an additional  extension before I issue  this final decision. 
Despite the requests of our investigator, theyve  been unclear about what they intended  to 
provide or obtain. Ive previously issued  two provisional decisions on this complaint, and Im 
satisfied both parties have  been  given sufficient opportunity to provide any further 
information in response to them.  And as Ive been  given nothing  specific,  I see no reason to 
extend this any further as it seems unlikely to change my mind  especially given the 
number of reports and expert opinions already available.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding  this complaint. And Ive covered Mr and Mrs Ms most 
recent responses in turn below.
specialist report
Within my provisional decision I outlined the specialist  doctors  findings  on the potential 
reasons for mould within the loft. And I highlighted  that in his opinion he said the most likely 
reason for the spores presence was due to the lack of occupancy. 
Mr and Mrs M may disagree with the specialist findings, but given his expertise and 
examination of the property, I find his comments on the most likely  cause  of the mould  to be 
more persuasive. So this doesnt change  my mind.
items in storage  and timeframes
Mr and Mrs M have  said UKI has failed to provide them with any specialist equipment  to 
allow them to attend the storage unit and review their items. I havent been given anything  to 
suggest they attempted to make  any other  arrangements to have their items  reviewed or 
inspected throughout the life of the claim.  Nor have I seen that theyve sought  this equipment 
from UKI. But even if they have,  given the length of time Mr and Mrs Ms items have been in 
storage, I dont think it would be reasonable to say this was the reason they havent attended 
the unit or documented their losses.
Ref: DRN776392014Mr and Mrs M have  also said I gave them  an unreasonable period of time to visit the storage 
unit due to their circumstances. As Ive said previously, Im very sympathetic to the personal  
events Mr and Mrs M have experienced during  the life of this claim. However, Ive 
considered all of these circumstances and satisfied  16 weeks was sufficient and a 
reasonable period of time.
For these reasons and those given in my provisional decisions above, Im satisfied the sum 
of £3,500 UKI has paid to them is fair compensation in the circumstances, and Im not 
asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
U K Insurance Limited has made an offer and paid £3,500 to settle this complaint,  and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
For clarity,  if Mr and Mrs M later provide an itemised list of damaged items (subject to 
policy limits  and terms) Id still expect U K Insurance Limited to consider this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020. 
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7763920