K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ss representative, a Claims Management  Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
about the redress proposed by Phoenix  Life Limited for having incorrectly  administered her 
joint life second  death reviewable  whole of lie plan. 
Mrs S is unhappy that her sum assured will be reduced to £13,532 and £1,572.38  will be 
reduced from the vale of her plan. Or in order  to maintain the £107,148 sum assured she will 
have to take out a top up plan for £93,616 at an additional cost of £268.92  a month.
background 
Phoenix Life says that after Mrs Ss husband Mr S passed away  in October 2011, it had 
incorrectly coded the plan as a single life plan, rather than continue to administer it as a joint 
life plan. It said as a consequence the previous plan reviews were incorrect and the sum 
assured was higher than it should  have been. 
Phoenix Life said remedial action was necessary to put Mrs S in the position she wouldve 
been in but for the error. It has proposed Mrs S either pay the correct  premiums moving 
forward or reduce  the sum assured.  It also offered £300 compensation for trouble and upset 
caused. 
The CMC disagreed with its proposal  and says Mrs S should continue to have £107,148 sum 
assured for the current premium of £20 a month. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The plan started in 1997 with a £120,000 sum assured for £20 a month. Following a 
review in 2008, the sum assured was reduced  to £107,148 for £15.60 a month. 
But after Mr Ss death in 2011, Mrs S was incorrectly given the impression that she 
didnt need to pay a higher premium to maintain  the sum assured.
He doesnt  think the CMCs  proposed  redress is fair or reasonable. 
He also doesnt  think Phoenix Lifes proposed redress  adequately put her back  in the 
position she wouldve  been in but for the error.  It assumed  that Mrs S wouldve 
reduced the sum assured,  even though the reviews since  2012  wouldve all failed. 
Whereas she had the option to increase her level of cover and was deprived  of the 
option to do this.  
Phoenix Life should instead  reconstruct  the plan on the correct basis, on the 
assumption that she wouldve maintained the sum assured, so Mrs S can pay the 
correct premium going forward, and pay £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mrs S shouldnt  have to pay any missed premiums increases. 
Phoenix Life agreed with the adjudicators view. It confirmed that the cost of a new policy 
arranged to maintain  the sum assured at £107,148  would be £91.99  month. This meant that 
Mrs M would  have  to pay £107.59 a month. 
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary  it says:
Ref: DRN77481402Although the monthly contributions have reduced as a result  of Phoenix Life 
reconstructing the plan, Mrs S remains unhappy that the premiums could be 
increased in future to counterbalance this.  
Mrs S would like Phoenix Life to reconstruct the plan to provide £107,148 for £20 a 
month on a non-reviewable basis.  
Phoenix Life broke the contract by providing  incorrect reviews over a period of time 
and so compromised  her financial situation over a number  of years especially since  
the death of Mr S. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the CMC  says,  I think  the redress 
recommended by the adjudicator is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It places Mrs S 
in the position she would  have been in but for the error. 
Phoenix Life quite  rightly accepts that it made  an error and as a result Mrs S has been  
paying reduced premiums. 
I appreciate Mrs S would  like Phoenix  Life to provide £107,148 worth of cover  at a cost of 
£20 a month on a non-reviewable basis, but this isnt what she had to begin with and isnt 
something she is entitled to just because Phoenix  Life incorrectly  coded  the plan. 
Although Mrs S had been paying an incorrect and lower premium, Phoenix  Life has a right to 
charge her the correct premium going forward. I note the plan was indexed so the amount of 
cover and premium went up each year. It was a unit-linked plan, so the premium purchased 
units with the charges  then being paid by deduction of sufficient units to cover the charges  
and this is how the plan will continue to operate. 
The point of the redress is to place Mrs S in the position  she wouldve been in, but for the 
error, not to place  her in a more advantageous  position. Its unlikely  shed have been  able to 
get that level of cover,  at the cost she wants with Phoenix Life or any insurer for that matter 
so it wouldnt be fair on the business  to give it to her now.  
I appreciate Mrs S remains concerned about the future cost of the plan but its important to 
remember that the plan still remains subject to reviews and the premiums are likely to go up 
in time as Mrs S get older. 
This was likely to happen given  the reviewable nature of the plan and regardless of the error. 
I also think its unlikely that Phoenix Life will deliberately increase the premiums in future to 
counterbalance this. 
 
I appreciate the points  the CMC makes  about  the impact the error has had on Mrs S, and the 
issue probably coming to light as a result of her contacting Phoenix Life in relation to an 
Ref: DRN77481403unrelated matter. But I think the recommended  redress, including the compensation for 
trouble and upset,  adequately addresses this. And Phoenix Life is entitled to put the plan in 
the position it wouldve been  in but for the error. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I think Phoenix Life Limited should:
Reconstruct the plan on the basis that Mrs S wouldve maintained her sum assured. 
Pay £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
Its important for Mrs S to remember  that whilst she wont  be required to pay any past 
premium increases, the plan remains reviewable and that premiums  are likely to increase in 
future. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7748140