K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited has added an 
exclusion to his policy which is too broad.
background
Mr E has held a lifetime insurance policy for his dog with Red Sands since  July 2016.
In November 2018, Mr E made a claim for some vets fees after his dog suffered an episode  
of haemorrhagic gastroenteritis.  Red Sands accepted the claim, and said it would cover 
future claims  relating  to the same  condition up to the annual  policy  limit. However, it said it 
had noticed the dog had shown signs of vomiting within the first 14 days  of the policy,  which  
was later diagnosed as gastroenteritis.
It highlighted  to Mr E that the policy wording gave it the right to add an exclusion to the policy  
if the dog showed any clinical signs of an illness within  the 14 day waiting period. So it added 
an exclusion  in relation to all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect from the 
date the policy started. Mr E didnt think this was fair. He said he wouldve understood if Red 
Sands had added an exclusion for gastroenteritis,  but thought adding  an exclusion in relation  
to all digestive issues was unjustified and punitive.
As Mr E wasnt happy he complained to our service. Our investigator felt Red Sands had 
acted fairly  and within the terms and conditions by adding the exclusion, so he didnt think  
the complaint  should be upheld. As Mr E didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. Mr E also complained about some  customer service issues,  but said he felt the 
investigator had resolved  this element of his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint, for the following reasons:
I think Red Sands has been able to establish  that the dog showed clinical signs  of 
gastroenteritis in the first 14 days of the policy. The policy was taken out on 1 July 2016.  On 
15 July 2016,  the dog was diagnosed  with gastroenteritis. But the vet noted that the vomiting  
had begun two days prior, on 13 July 2016, which is clearly within the 14 day waiting period.
Red Sands  has also shown that it reserved the right under its policy wording to add an 
exclusion to the policy if the dog showed  any clinical signs of an illness within  the 14 day 
waiting period. So under a strict interpretation  of the policy terms, Red Sands was entitled to 
add an exclusion.  But the terms say an exclusion may be added for this clinical 
signillness or condition. The exclusion Red Sands added is much wider  than this and 
excludes all cover for the whole digestive system, not just the particular condition Mr Es dog 
had been suffering with.
In addition, I can look beyond a strict interpretation of the policy terms in deciding  what I 
think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint. I also need  to take into 
account the relevant law.
Red Sands  has said that Mr E should  have told it about the dogs diagnosis of 
gastroenteritis, and if he had declared this condition, it would have applied an exclusion for 
all claims with respect to the digestive  system from the outset. As it wasnt  made aware,  it 
feels its entitled to remedy  the situation  by applying the exclusion now retrospectively.
Ref: DRN77153312The law that sets out the remedies available to insurers where a policyholder  misrepresents 
information is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (or 
CIDRA). CIDRA sets a duty on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. But it applies to representations made before a contract is entered into 
(or varied).
So in order for a remedy to be available to Red Sands under CIDRA, it would need to show 
that it asked Mr E a clear question about his dogs health before the policy started. It would  
then need to show Mr E failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent his answer.  
Finally, it would need to show  that if he had taken reasonable care, it would only have been 
prepared to offer a policy which excluded cover for issues with the digestive  system.
Red Sands  seems to accept in this case that the dog didnt start showing clinical signs of 
gastroenteritis until after the policy started. So I dont think  there  was anything Mr E could 
have told Red Sands about  his dogs health before the policy  began  which  would have 
resulted in it only offering a policy without cover  for digestive issues;  he couldnt have 
disclosed something that hadnt  happened  yet.
By the time Mr E was in a position  to tell Red Sands about the symptoms, it was already 
providing him with lifetime  cover. That means the remedy Red Sands has sought  to apply 
here isnt applicable.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was fair for Red Sands to add the exclusion to 
Mr Es policy. So I intend  to direct Red Sands to remove  it.
developments and findings 
Mr E has accepted the provisional decision but Red Sands hasnt. In summary, Red Sands 
says:
Its not saying Mr E failed to disclose a condition when the policy was taken out  its 
simply applying the blanket exclusion for illness not being covered within the first 14 
days. 
The provisional decision notes  that there were signs of vomiting within the first 14 
days of the policy,  and accepts that it had the right to add an exclusion on the policy  
if the pet shows any clinical signs of an illness within the first 14 days.  
The provisional decision agrees that the condition started within the first 14 days  and 
that it has applied  an exclusion correctly, but goes on to say Mr E wasnt asked the 
question when the policy was taken out to be able to confirm any pre-existing 
condition, as the illness occurred with the first 14 days. 
The provisional decision has misunderstood the reason why the exclusion was 
added. 
This should be reviewed on the basis of the 14 day cooling off exclusion and not on 
the basis of a pre-existing condition, as thats  incorrect. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN77153313Red Sands  says I should review the decision on the basis of the 14 day period. I agree with 
Red Sands  that it can add an exclusion  for the condition  that started in the first 14 days  of 
the policy and I said that in my provisional decision. But as I also explained,  the policy terms 
only say an exclusion may be added for this illness or condition. So it should only apply  to 
the specific condition.  Red Sands  went further  than that, adding  a much wider  term that 
excludes all cover for the whole digestive system.
When Mr E took out his policy,  his dog was covered for everything except any pre-existing 
condition (which includes a condition starting  in the first 14 days).  The law allows Red Sands 
to add exclusions for other conditions, but only in certain circumstances. To add such a wide 
exclusion, Red Sands would  have  to show Mr E had misrepresented the position regarding 
his dogs health when he took out the policy. And that cant be the case  here  because  the 
illness hadnt happened yet. By the time this condition started, Mr Es pet was already 
covered for everything except that particular condition.
In these circumstances, it isnt fair for Red Sands to add a wide exclusion applying to the 
whole digestive  system.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to remove the exclusion  for claims relating to the digestive system.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7715331