K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) supplied her with a faulty car under 
a hire purchase agreement. 
background
Miss W acquired  a brand new car in September 2018 with a cash  price  of £16,890 financed 
by a hire purchase  agreement with PSA. In December 2018 she said she started  
experiencing problems with the front parking sensor.  She said the nearby object warning 
would flash on the infotainment screen when it wasnt  supposed to  when no objects were  
nearby, or when  other  cars were simply passing  by on the road. 
The selling dealership looked  at the car in January 2019. It confirmed the front parking  
sensor was not working properly. But it said it found  evidence of repair  work to the front 
bumper and evidence  that the parking  sensor  hadnt  been replaced correctly  during this 
work. For this reason  it said it was unwilling to fix the problem under warranty and 
recommended that Miss W take the car back to the body shop that repaired the front 
bumper. Miss W denied  she had any kind of accident in the car.
PSA instructed  an independent inspection  of the car.  The report  prepared by the inspector 
says it was unable  to replicate the problem  with the parking  sensor. It did find that one of the 
front parking  sensors  fitted differently to the other  and that there  was evidence of local repair  
work to the front bumper   but it said it wasnt clear  when this may have occurred.  
Miss W instructed her own company to look at the car. It too found  some evidence of local 
repair work to the front bumper.  But it didnt  think this would  have had any impact on the 
function of the front parking sensor.  And it said it wasnt  clear  when the repair work took 
place.  It was also unable  to replicate the issue with the parking sensor. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought there was 
evidence a fault was present with the car, this wasnt caused by Miss W and PSA should 
allow Miss W to reject  the car. 
PSA disagreed with the investigator.  It said in summary:
The fault did not manifest itself until four months  after Miss W first had the car. If the 
fault was present  at the point of sale this would have happened  sooner.
In any event it has not had an opportunity to repair the car yet so it should be allowed 
to do this. 
PSA offered  to fix the problem at no cost to Miss W and refund one monthly payment as 
compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA supplied Miss W with the car under  the finance agreement it had with her. Under 
relevant legislation, The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA), there was an implied term 
that the car was of satisfactory quality. Whats satisfactory is measured by what a 
Ref: DRN71119862reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and other relevant circumstances. 
The car PSA supplied  to Miss W was brand new and it cost over £15,000. The CRA  says 
that aspects such  as appearance and finish and freedom from minor defects are in 
appropriate cases aspects of the quality  of goods. I think  a reasonable person would expect 
a brand new car costing upwards of £15,000  to be free from minor defects such as faulty  
parking sensors.  
When Miss W first took the car to the dealership in January 2019 it confirmed the parking  
sensor was alerting of nearby objects when it shouldnt be. Since  then, neither independent 
party that inspected  the car has been  able to replicate the fault. But Miss W has sent us 
recent videos of what she says is the problem happening again.  
Having seen these  videos, I do think at least one of them shows  the cars  infotainment  
screen displaying warnings of nearby objects when  it shouldnt  be. In one of the videos it is 
fairly clear that the sensor flashes on the infotainment  screen when the car in front has 
pulled away  and there are no other objects close to the car. And there are occasions in 
another video  where passing  cars on the other side of the road are setting it off too.  So I 
think the fault with the parking sensors is still present  as it was in January  2019 when the 
supplying dealership confirmed this. 
PSA says that even if there is a fault with the sensor, it has most likely been caused  by 
something Miss W did after she acquired  the car given the evidence of repair  work  to the 
front bumper. And it says if the fault was the result of something inherently wrong with car, it 
would have been present  straight away after Miss W acquired  the car and wouldnt have 
taken four months  to manifest itself. 
Miss W on the other hand strongly  denies  that shes had any kind of accident or carried out 
any repair work on the car. 
When the dealership  looked at the car it said there had been a bodywork repair
to the front bumper and the parking  sensors had been put back  wonky. One of the 
independent inspections does note that one front parking sensor appears slightly  lower and 
more recessed than the other.  And it also says that there is evidence of a dry paint finish and 
overspray to the clips and cables under the front bumper. The report  concludes  there  has 
likely been  refurbishment  work to the front bumper but cant say when this happened. It also 
concludes there is no heavy accident damage.  
The second  independent report finds no evidence of overspray but does also note a dry 
finish to the paintwork on the bottom  section of the front bumper compared to the rest of it. It 
concludes there is a possibility of a local repair to the lower  front bumper but that this would 
be unlikely to have  affected the parking sensors.  It too finds no evidence  of a significant  
impact or subsequent  repair. 
I recognise Miss W didnt complain about  the sensor until four months after Miss W acquired 
the car. But from the evidence Ive seen, Im not convinced this was the result  of something 
Miss W did.  While the reports  conclude that work may have been done to the front bumper 
at some point, I dont think they show Miss W did this or, more importantly, that the sensor is 
faulty as a result of this anyway. Only the dealership has suggested  that the misalignment of 
the sensors has anything  to do with any repair work  that may have been carried  out and 
Ref: DRN71119863neither independent  report  links the possible misalignment of the sensor with the problems 
Miss W is experiencing. 
PSA says that if the car was damaged in transit from the factory  to the dealership  it wouldve 
been repaired to factory standard  and there  would be a record  of this on the cars warranty  
history  which it says there  isnt in this case. But PSA hasnt provided evidence  of any 
inspection carried out before Miss W picked up the car so I dont know  if the area in question 
was checked.  And even  if it was, the kind of damage  in question doesnt look like it wouldve 
been immediately  obvious, especially if for example  the bumper had been  resprayed in the 
factory during  manufacturing. 
Furthermore, I think Miss W has provided  credible  and consistent testimony that she did not 
damage the car. She has obtained confirmation  from her insurer that no claims have been  
made since she acquired the car and overall,  I am persuaded  by her testimony.
So, I havent seen  enough to make  me think that the front bumper was resprayed as a result 
of damage caused  by Miss W. But even it was I havent seen enough  to make me think  the 
parking sensor  is faulty as a result  of it being misaligned anyway. 
All in all, I do think there is a fault with the car. And having seen the videos of it happening I 
can see why Miss W has had enough of this. The problem impacts  the operation of an 
important safety feature  on the car making it difficult to know  if objects really are close or not. 
And given  the car was brand new and should  have been free from minor  defects, I dont 
think it is of satisfactory quality as a result of this. 
PSA has now offered  to repair the sensor and give Miss W one months  payment as 
compensation. It says that as the supplying dealership did not get a chance to repair the 
sensors, a refit would be the most appropriate  thing to do now.   Miss  W however wants to 
reject the car. 
Ive thought very carefully about this. The problem looks  to be intermittent. And as Ive said 
earlier, there isnt conclusive evidence of a link between the fault Miss W is experiencing and 
any misalignment of the senor. So, its not clear how easy it will be to get to the bottom of the 
issue and rectify it. If the problem really was a simple misalignment it seems likely the sensor 
would be warning of nearby  objects more than it is.  
Its clear that Miss W took the car to the dealership  with the intention of having the fault with 
the sensor rectified. Had she made  PSA aware of this first its likely the same course of 
events would have  transpired i.e. it would  have asked the dealer to look at the car. So I dont 
think its fair to say in this case  that PSA didnt have  an opportunity to repair. But in any 
event, given the remaining uncertainty as to how easy the fault can be fixed  and the further 
inconvenience this is likely to cause. I think the fair thing to do in this case  is allow  Miss W to 
reject the car and cancel her agreement.
Miss Ws hire purchase agreement also includes an insurance policy.  For the avoidance of 
doubt PSA should cancel this part of the agreement too so that Miss W has nothing  further  
to pay from the date of settlement. 
Miss W paid the cost of an independent inspection of her car. I think, given the conclusion 
Im reaching here, that its fair PSA pays her the cost of this. 
Ref: DRN71119864The investigator asked  PSA to refund one months payment as compensation for trouble, 
upset and loss of enjoyment.  I think Miss Ws use of the car has been impaired somewhat 
as not all of the features worked as they should  have. And she experienced distress and 
inconvenience having to take the car to the dealer  and obtain her own independent  
inspection. So in the round I think the value of one monthly payment of £267.37  is fair 
compensation for all of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  Miss Ws complaint. 
To put things right PSA Finance UK Limited  must:
end the agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Miss W;
refund  the advance  payment of £213.36  plus interest at 8% simple  per annum from 
the date it was paid until the date of settlement*;
pay Miss W the cost of the independent report she obtained (subject  to evidence) 
plus interest at 8% simple  per annum from the date it was paid until the date of 
settlement*;
pay Miss W compensation of £267.37 for impaired use and distress and 
inconvenience, and;
remove any adverse information  in relation to the agreement from Miss Ws credit 
file.
*If PSA Finance  UK Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss W a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111986