K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  about  a number of loans she took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited,  trading  at the time as Mr Lender. Miss K says she was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Miss K took out 6 loans from Mr Lender between  September 2014 and 
July 2017. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Ks borrowing  with Mr Lender,  based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
for loan number 4 only. Mr Lender  said it hadnt  done anything wrong. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and good industry 
practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach  when thinking about Miss Ks complaint.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss K could repay  all the loans she was given  in a sustainable manner. These  checks  
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being  
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should  have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender  was required to establish  
whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loans;  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN77228642Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss K could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried  out certain  affordability and credit checks before agreeing  to lend 
to Miss K including  assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness.  It says all this 
showed that she would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to. Ive 
thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending  history with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some  point, Mr 
Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans to Miss K. 
Ive also taken account of what Ive said above about the length of the lending  relationship  
and applied  it to the circumstances of loan numbers 1 - 3 in this case.  And I dont think  its 
clear enough  that what Mr Lender would have seen, from its checks, suggested  loans 1 - 3 
were either unaffordable for Miss K or that the information from the checks  it carried out 
undermined the income or outgoings Miss K had herself declared. I therefore dont uphold  
this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different. Miss K applied 
for this loan the month directly after paying back loan 3 and I note the amount she was 
allowed to borrow increased substantially. This means  the amount she needed to pay back 
also increased and she clearly wasnt making  any in-roads into her indebtedness. 
In my view, these factors should have prompted  more proportionate and comprehensive 
financial checks by Mr Lender to establish  that the lending was affordable.  If this had taken 
place, it would have  shown Miss K was having difficulty managing  her money.  And I think 
that having significant amounts of outstanding  short-term loans  in this case  there  were  six 
such loans outstanding  would have  easily  shown Miss K was having financial trouble. 
Ive looked and thought  carefully at what Mr Lender  has said about this. It essentially says 
that the checks it carried out revealed  no such concerns. Its not for me to tell Mr Lender 
what agencies it ought to use when checking financial histories. But I see, for example, that 
Miss Ks bank statements showed she was indebted to other short-term lenders and indeed,  
had substantial history  in that particular market. In my view the checks Mr Lenders says it 
carried out were obviously  inadequate and not proportionate to the situation. I therefore 
uphold this part of Miss Ks complaint.
However, Im not upholding loan numbers 5 or 6. As our adjudicator pointed out, by this time 
Miss K hadnt been lent to by Mr Lender  for quite  a long time so this was a break  in the 
lending chain and I think its fair to revert to what Ive said above  about this being  at the early 
stages of a lending cycle. So I dont think theres enough evidence to uphold loans 5 or 6.
Ref: DRN77228643putting things right
In order to put things  right for Miss K, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest  and charges Miss K paid on loan 4 only;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation to loan 4.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss K a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Miss Ks complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Combined 
Monthly  Payment
1 19/09/2014 29/09/2014 6 £290.00 £132
2 30/09/2014 26/03/2015 6 £750.00 £350
3 17/05/2015 26/08/2015 3 £100.00 £66
4 17/09/2015 24/03/2016 6 £600.00 £292
5 13/06/2017 26/06/2017 6 £600.00 £306
6 25/07/2017 16/09/2017 4 £500.00 £243
Ref: DRN7722864