K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about One Call Insurance Services Limited. He isnt happy that it 
charged him cancellation  fees when he cancelled his car insurance  within  the cooling off 
period.
background
Mr B took out car insurance  through One Call. But he realised that he needed to tell One 
Call that he had got a speeding fixed penalty just before  he took out the policy. One Call 
realised around the same  time and said his premium would increase. But as Mr B could get 
his cover cheaper online, and he was in his cooling  off period, he cancelled the policy  and 
took out cover elsewhere.
One Call went onto charge him a cancellation/set-up fee. It said that it could do this, even in 
the cooling off period,  as this was outlined within  its policy documentation. When Mr B 
complained about this it waived some of the fee as a gesture of goodwill.  But Mr B remained 
unhappy as he said he was being  charged  over £100 for cancelling the policy  and so he 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that it 
was clear in the policy documentation that One Call would charge a cancellation  fee or set 
up fee even during the cooling off period. So, he thought it had acted fairly. 
As Mr B didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did consider the details  of this complaint previously and outlined the background to the 
case and my thoughts  in my provisional  decision.  I said that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
I thought Mr B wasnt aware,  from the detail provided,  that he would be charged a set-up  fee 
or cancellation fee in the cooling off period.  I highlighted  that it is unusual to charge a 
cancellation fee during  the cooling off period which is why Mr B thought  he could cancel  the 
policy without charge.
One Call has said that it wasnt a cancellation  fee and says that it can charge a set-up fee 
which was outlined online  when  Mr B took out the policy. But I didnt think  that the online 
process made it clear  enough that a set-up  fee would be charged  in the 14-day cooling off 
period and a cancellation  fee outside of the cooling  off period. 
Although there was a link that Mr B would have to click on if he wanted to know  about these 
costs, I thought this should be clearer. Highlighting that consumers dont ordinarily  click on 
all attachments  and terms and conditions before buying a policy.  So, I was of the view that it 
should have been highlighted upfront and not in a detailed charges document. And I was 
satisfied that had the charges been  brought to Mr Bs attention that he would have taken his 
business elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN72046362This was because Mr B thought he had a 14-day cooling off period. And if it had of been 
made clear to him during  the application process (without the need  to click on a hyperlink 
and have to consider a detailed two-page charges  document) that he would be charged a 
cancellation or set-up fee then I was satisfied that he would have taken  his business 
elsewhere. I say this as Mr B thought  he had a cooling off period in which he could change  
his mind without penalty, when  he didnt.
One Call feels that it isnt unusual to charge cancellation fees in the cooling off period  and 
states that the set-up fee isnt a cancellation charge. It feels  that if companies  didnt charge 
fees during the cooling off period then consumers could just continually  cancel  in the first 14-
days without charge, thus having  free insurance. But a consumer would always be charged 
time on cover, so the period of insurance isnt free. And a cooling off time gives consumers a 
period of reflection, allowing them time to ensure  that the product was right for them.
It also says that it wouldnt be possible to put all the terms and conditions on their website 
before purchase, which is why it has a two-page  charges sheet  for consumers to read. I 
accept One Calls point  - it would be impractical to have all terms and conditions outlined  
upfront. But it should have  key points highlighted in an easily  accessible format  (such as 
charges a consumer  will face if they cancel in the cooling-off period). 
Since that time, Ive also asked One Call for some clarity around the charges Mr B faced, 
including time on cover and it is far from clear what he was actually charged.  I know Mr B 
was confused by what he was charged.  I can understand that given One Calls 
representations about this to this service. As One Call hasnt been able to provide a detailed 
breakdown of what Mr B was actually charged and why. I will just ask it to ensure that he is 
only charged for his time on cover and waive any additional costs charged,  providing a clear  
breakdown to Mr B.
I also think, given  the lack of clarity  that One Call has provided to Mr B about  the charges he 
has incurred, and the clear inconvenience  that he has been  caused that it should pay him 
£50 compensation.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require 
One Call Insurance  Services Limited  to only charge Mr B time on cover and to refund any 
other charges or costs  incurred. And to pay him £50 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7204636