K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited was irresponsible when it provided a 
loan of £1,500 to him in November 2018.
background
Mr W took the loan of £1,500 from Provident on 26 November 2018.  It was a home  credit  
arrangement, due to be repaid over 104 weekly instalments of £34.50  (roughly £150 per 
month). The total amount repayable was therefore  around £3,500.  
Mr W repaid the Provident loan on 31 January  2019  and complained shortly after that. It 
doesnt agree that it acted irresponsibly. One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws 
complaint and agreed with Provident - recommending that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators assessment  and so, as the complaint wasnt  
resolved informally, it came to me  an ombudsman  to make a decision. 
So, a few weeks ago, I looked into Mr Ws complaint  and provisionally concluded that it 
should be upheld.  I issued a provisional  decision in which I explained  why I had reached that 
outcome. And I invited  the parties to provide me with anything  else they wanted me to look 
at before I reconsidered  my decision.   Mr W accepts my decision. So far as Im aware 
Provident hasnt  responded. 
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Mr W accepts my provisional  decision and I'm not aware of a response  from Provident, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  conclusions. 
In my provisional decision I outlined some  of the regulations applicable at the time Mr W took 
his loan as follows:
Provident provided the loan in question  while it was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with. These included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Provident when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in 
relation to responsible  lending.  
Section 5.2.A.4 R of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a
customer before:
(1)entering into a regulated credit agreement.
And at Section 5.2A.12 R:
Ref: DRN73520662The firm must  consider the customers ability  to make repayments under  the
agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the
agreement is an open-end agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more  of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly  held by the customer with
another person,  income received by the customer jointly with
another person  or income received by another person in so far as
it is reasonable  to expect  such income to be available  to the
customer to make repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings  or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly
an intention to repay (wholly  or partly)  using them;
(3) without  the customer having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(4) without  failing to make any other payment the customer  has a
contractual or statutory obligation to make; and
(5) without  the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the
customers financial situation.
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.A.20 R 
saying:
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness assessment, and the
steps that the firm must  take to satisfy  the requirement that the
assessment is a reasonable  one, based  on sufficient information, are
dependent upon, and proportionate to, the individual circumstances
of each case.
It then outlines some  things the firm must consider and some factors  to which it must have 
regard for example:
the type of credit;
the amount  of the credit  or, where  applicable,  the credit limit;
the duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
the frequency of the repayments;
the amounts  of the repayments;
the total amount  payable;
the total charge  for credit;
the annual percentage rate of charge;
CONC 5.2A.22 G adds  
The firm should also have regard to information of which it is aware  at the
time the creditworthiness assessment is carried  out that may indicate that:
(1) the customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience,
financial difficulties; or
(2) the customer is particularly vulnerable, for example because the
customer has mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations
And under CONC 5.2A.23 G 
The firm may have regard, where  appropriate,  to information obtained  in
the course of previous dealings  with the customer
Potential indicators  that a level of affordability risk may be high include circumstances where 
the total value of the customers  outstanding debts relative to the customers income is high or 
Ref: DRN73520663there is a high likelihood that the customer will not make  the repayments under  the agreement 
by their due days (CONC  5.2A.25 G)
I also explained that, as an ombudsman, Im required to take into account any other  
guidance, standards, relevant codes  of practice,  and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice. And having taken  account of the relevant rules, guidance, 
good industry practice and law, I thought there are some overarching questions  I need to 
consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
complaint. These questions are: 
Did Provident complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable  way? 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? If not, would  those  checks have shown that 
Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
Did Provident act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
In my provisional decision I then went on to explain  how these things were relevant to 
Mr Ws complaint  as follows:
[Provident] had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate  assessment of whether  he could 
afford to repay  it in a sustainable way. 
The checks Provident did, had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances  of the loan in 
question.  And what is proportionate  will depend on a number of factors including things  like 
the consumers financial history and current situation as well as things such as the amount, 
type, and cost of the credit being sought.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess  the sustainability  of 
the arrangement  for the customer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment  of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the customer directly relates  to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the customer. Therefore, a lenders assessment  of creditworthiness  
would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one customer might not be 
for another, or indeed  what  might  be sufficient  for a customer in one circumstance might not 
be so for the same customer in different circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary.  In 
general, Id expect a lender  to require  more assurance, the greater the potential  risk to the 
customer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN73520664Certain factors might  point  to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the customer. These factors include,  
but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
So, in summary, Provident was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay  
his loan  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably  make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because a customer needs to be able to make  their repayments without 
undue difficulties and, in particular, they should be able to make repayments on time,  whilst 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
I think  that it therefore  follows that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower  wont  be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further.
And, although  Mr W may have repaid  his loan early, it doesnt automatically follow that he 
managed to repay it in a sustainable way. 
Ive again thought about what a reasonable and proportionate  check shouldve looked  like 
when Provident  was in the process  of approving  the loan for Mr W. This is what I said in my 
provisional decision:
This loan was for a relatively high amount given  that it was Mr Ws first loan with Provident. It 
has shown me that it asked  Mr W for details of his income and expenditure  and it did a credit 
file check.  
Provident has provided a copy of the credit  file information it obtained. From this I can see 
that Mr W had eight  active accounts but there werent  any negative markers such  as defaults  
recorded against him. In isolation and on the face of it, I dont  think that there was anything 
overly concerning about these credit  file results. But, according to Mr W, Provident had other 
information about his very recent  credit  history which  means  it shouldnt  have lent to him.  I 
will return  to this below. 
As Ive mentioned, Provident  also asked  Mr W about his income and expenses. For ease of 
reference Ive referred to amounts on a monthly basis (as some were  recorded in weekly  
terms) and I've rounded the figures involved. 
Mr W declared that his income  was £2,125 and the Provident agent appears to have verified  
this with reference to a payslip.  His stated financial commitments  amounted to £960.  And he 
declared some other  monthly  expenses such as council  tax at £130,  utilities at £200 and food 
at £150. In total the outgoings were declared  to be around  £1,770 per month. 
The Provident  loan was due to cost Mr W approximately  £150 per month.  This meant that 
after Mr W had met his usual expenses - and the Provident loan repayments - he was going  
Ref: DRN73520665to be left with about £200 per month from which to meet all unusual or unexpected costs not 
factored into Providents expenditure assessment. 
I do have some concerns  that as this loan was to be repaid over two years,  a proportionate 
check should more likely have involved  a more thorough interrogation of Mr Ws expenses 
and his credit  commitments. But I accept that, on the face of the information  gathered from 
Mr W, the loan was affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
I then explained  that whilst Provident hadnt provided any earlier  home credit loans to Mr W, 
he tells us that a different part of the company which also provides high-cost credit, called 
Satsuma - had provided him with a loan for £2,000 in late September 2018. This had been 
due to be repaid  over a one-year term. I have  seen some details about this loan from 
Provident. And the information it has provided  about when the Satsuma  loan was taken and 
repaid, broadly matches  what  Mr W has said. 
Mr W says that he realised that the Satsuma was going to be very expensive and so he tried 
to cancel it. However, he wasnt in a position to make a one-off repayment of the whole 
amount. He says he told Satsuma that he was struggling financially and that he was 
suffering with ill-health.  So, it was agreed  that he would  pay £1,116 on 1 November and 
£1,105 on 1 December. I have limited  information about these payments. But from what  Ive 
seen Mr W notified Satsuma of his intent to withdraw from the loan on the 3 October 2018. 
He then made a payment of £1,116.38 towards  the Satsuma loan on the 31 October 2018. 
And I understand he made a second  repayment on 4 December of £1,105.80.
Mr W describes  how he was struggling to find the funds to repay the Satsuma loan as he 
had so many  debts to other lenders. Hes provided a copy of an email he received on 
22 November 2018 from Provident offering a loan of up to £1,710  (subject to affordability) 
saying Hi [Mr W] It wouldnt be Christmas without.. On receipt  of this email he opted to 
apply for the Provident loan to help him with his other debts including  the second repayment 
on the Satsuma  loan.
Mr W acknowledges that he had got himself into a situation where  he says he had been 
borrowing from multiple high-cost lenders to repay earlier credit and his wages were 
swallowed up by his overdraft and repaying debts. He thinks  this encouragement  through 
the email from a company which already knew he was struggling - added to his difficulties. 
And he describes  himself  as being  ashamed of the situation  he got into in late 2018.   
I dont know whether Provident  was aware of Mr Ws ill health.  But I do find it surprising that 
Provident  aware  of Mr Ws arrangement to repay his Satsuma loan (and that he was still 
due to repay over £1,100 at the start of December)   sent him this email, encouraging him to 
borrow more in the run up to Christmas. Given his income, it was unlikely  hed be able to 
make this second repayment on his Satsuma loan from sustainable means.  And this email  
appears to have dropped into his in-box  at a moment in time when he could see no other 
option but to take the Provident loan to make  the second repayment on the Satsuma loan.
With all this in mind   whilst  I accept that the income and expenditure information provided 
by Mr W may have  suggested that the Provident loan was affordable on a pounds and pence 
calculation - Provident was in possession of enough information to conclude  that it was 
unlikely hed be able to repay  the loan sustainably. Indeed, it seems that he did go on to use 
most of the proceeds of the Provident loan to make the second and final repayment on his 
Satsuma loan. This effectively meant that he was due to spend  the next two years  making 
repayments on a loan  taken to repay  off the Satsuma loan. 
Ref: DRN73520666I also accept that the agent dealing with Mr Ws Provident home credit loan application may 
not have had all the information  about the Satsuma loan to hand. But Provident  the 
company  did have  that information. And as such it couldnt fairly close  its eyes  and ignore 
it. 
Having thought about all of this again I remain of the view that Provident  didnt act 
responsibly when  it provided its home credit loan to Mr W. I think  it treated him unfairly  and 
he lost out as a result.  So, I'm upholding his complaint. 
putting things right
I'm not persuaded that Provident  acted responsibly when it provided the home  credit  loan to 
Mr W in November 2018. So, I require  it to do what Ive set out below. 
A.Add together the total of the repayments  made by Mr W towards  interest, fees and 
charges on his loan.
B.Calculate  8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  by Mr W which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information Provident has recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Provident to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr W a certificate showing  how 
much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Ws complaint 
and require Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7352066