K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is pursuing  this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr D. Miss S is 
acting as Mrs Ds representative.  She says MetLife  Europe Insurance d.a.c has 
unreasonably refused  to pay funeral benefit  on two accident protection  policies held by the 
late Mr D, by applying an exclusion which is unrelated to his cause of death.  
background
Mr D took out two accident  Multi-Protect  policies,  one in June 2016  and the other in 
January 2017.  The policies were  designed to provide  cover  in the event of specified 
accidents or injuries. They additionally contained  funeral  benefit  of a defined  lump sum 
(£2,000 and £3,000 respectively) in the event of a death from natural causes, providing the 
policy premiums had been paid for a year or more. The policies were sold to Mr D by a third-
party adviser. 
Mr D sadly passed away in September 2017. Thereafter, Mrs D lodged claims with MetLife. 
However, MetLife said it couldnt process them until it had a copy  of Mr Ds full death 
certificate. 
The death  certificate was delayed because  following  Mr Ds death  there  was a coroners 
inquest. This concluded in March 2018. That said Mr D had died from multiple  drug toxicity, 
with a conclusion  of a drug-related death. It also said that a secondary cause of death  was 
asthma.   
In May 2018, Mrs D sent the full death  certificate to MetLife. She followed this up with 
completed claim forms. 
In July 2018, MetLife told Mrs D it needed  to obtain more  medical  evidence,  as it had noted 
on the medical information that Mr D had previously been diagnosed with alcohol 
dependency syndrome.  On that basis, it had written to Mr Ds GP.  
In August  2018,  Mrs D complained about the amount of time taken  to issue  a claims 
decision. That same  month MetLife  issued a final response to the complaint, saying it 
believe it had acted  promptly  at all stages  of the claims; aside from one short  delay in writing 
to Mr Ds GP it was otherwise not responsible for any delay caused by third parties  such  as 
awaiting the coroners  report and death  certificate. 
On 31 August 2018, MetLife told Mrs D that it could not pay a claim on either  policy. It said 
Mr Ds death was caused by his need  to take prescription  drugs  to treat his chronic  
pancreatitis. In turn, that was caused  by alcohol misuse. It therefore  took the view that the 
exclusion on Mr Ds policies relating to alcohol abuse applied, and no claims could be paid. 
Mrs D disputed MetLifes conclusions and said she had been treated unfairly at a 
devastating time for her and her family.  The lack of payment meant she could not afford to 
pay for Mr Ds funeral. She wrote to MetLife  on 16 October 2018 appealing the outcome of 
the decision and lodging a second  complaint.  
She said that her husband had died from multiple  drug toxicity  and asthma,  not because of 
alcohol abuse. The real cause was simply the volume of drugs he had to take.  She 
explained that Mr Ds drugs were  administered because he suffered from chronic  
pancreatitis.  
Ref: DRN77329912Mrs D said that at the time of the sale,  Mr D wasnt asked any questions  about his alcohol 
use. Mr D had suffered  from alcoholism,  but Mrs D said that he had undergone rehabilitation. 
She said it was an illness  like any other, and he had received  treatment for it. If MetLife had 
wanted to exclude any policyholder that had used alcohol  excessively  in the past,  then it 
should have done so.  
Mrs D also said that it was unfair to refuse a claim where the reason for the claim was 
unrelated to a policy exclusion or something  that an insurer wouldnt provide cover  for. She 
felt that could mean insurers avoiding claims made  about genuine  matters.    
MetLife treated  the matter  as a complaint. It issued a letter  in February 2019 where it told 
Mrs D that it was unable  to pay the claim and offered her referral rights  to this service.  
It said it had sought  further medical evidence from Mr Ds consultant. And having  done so, 
the consultant confirmed  Mr D was diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis after suffering 
previously from recurrent attacks  of alcohol-related pancreatitis. Since Mr Ds policy had a 
general exclusion regarding claims resulting  (directly or indirectly)  from alcohol or solvent 
abuse, MetLife was unable  to meet the claims.  
Mrs D was unhappy with the outcome of her appeal, and Miss S helped her refer the second 
complaint to this service.  
One of investigators  reviewed the complaint. She said she didnt think the complaint could 
succeed. Whilst she understood  how upsetting the matter was for Mrs D, she didnt think 
MetLife had done  anything  wrong. The terms that applied  to both of Mr Ds policies said that 
it would  exclude  a claim payment for any claim  caused  by alcohol abuse. And whilst that 
wasnt Mr Ds cause of death,  the medical evidence showed that his chronic pancreatitis was 
likely caused  by alcohol misuse. 
The investigator therefore said it was fair for MetLife to apply the policy exclusions.  
Miss S said Mrs D disagreed and that she wanted an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I was sorry to hear about Mr D having  passed away. I can see how upsetting things  have 
been for Mrs D. Though I know my decision will be disappointing for her and her family, I am 
not able to uphold the complaint.  Ill explain  my reasons for that below. 
I note Mrs D also made an earlier  complaint on 10 August 2018 about the time taken to deal 
with her claims, and MetLife chose to treat that as a separate complaint, with separate 
referral rights to this service.  I therefore will not be considering the subject of that complaint 
here. My findings are on the second  complaint (confirmed on the complaint form as started 
by Mrs D on 16 August 2018) regarding the failure to pay the claims.  
When considering  if MetLife has behaved fairly,  I need to look at what the terms of Mr Ds 
contracts of insurance said. As the two policies were taken out close together,  they each 
contained the same terms and conditions set out below in their respective policy  booklets.  
Ref: DRN77329913The cover Mrs D claimed for says:
Funeral  benefit
Funeral benefit  is provided under the policy if you have had your policy for at least 12 
months. We will pay this policy benefit if you die from any natural cause during the 
term of the policy. If death occurs  before you have  had your policy  in force  for at least 
12 months, we will refund  the total premiums paid under the policy. Payment of the 
funeral benefit  automatically terminates the policy.
The first policy had been in force for twelve months  and the policy schedule confirmed the 
funeral benefit  to be £2,000. The second  was in place for less than eight months  before Mr D 
passed away, so the claim was for the refund of the monthly premiums, which were £24 
each month.  
I know Mrs D feels particularly strongly  that Mr D wasnt given any opportunity  to disclose his 
history of alcoholism when he applied for the policy. MetLife didnt  sell the policy to Mr D  a 
third party is responsible for the sale. But, MetLife did not ask any such question when Mr D 
took out the policy. It does not undertake underwriting  of that nature  from the outset. Instead, 
the policy contains a number of exclusions which are considered (where  relevant) in the 
event a policyholder makes a claim.  
In Mr Ds case, MetLife says the following exclusion applies:
This policy does not cover any claim caused or resulting directly  or indirectly [my 
emphasis] in whole  or in part by or from the following: 
Alcohol or solvent  abuse, or drug taking  (unless taken as prescribed by a 
registered medical practitioner  and not for the treatment of drug addiction);
I have seen Mr Ds death certificate and I accept that his immediate cause of death  was 
multiple drug toxicity,  because Mr D was taking a type of anti-convulsant medicine  and a 
type of opioid for pain management due to chronic pancreatitis. Sadly, the use of the 
medication resulted  in respiratory depression and ultimately in Mr D passing away. 
I note the death  certificate says asthma  is a contributing condition relating to Mr Ds death. I 
also note that Mr Ds death certificate  does not mention  that his death was either primarily or 
secondarily caused by his alcohol  intake  or previous alcoholism.  
But, the policy wording  above is a wider  clause than merely restricting the claim to a 
policyholders cause of death. What it says is a claim cannot be paid if it arises indirectly in 
whole or in part by or from alcohol abuse. And Mr Ds consultant has specifically addressed 
the cause of his chronic pancreatitis. 
In her letter to MetLife dated 31 January 2019,  the consultant (who specialises in hepato-
pancreato-biliary medicine) expressly  stated that:
[Mr D] was seen  in our hospital  back in 2014 with recurrent attacks of alcohol-related 
pancreatitis. I can confirm  that the diagnosis  was chronic pancreatitis  due to alcohol 
misuse.
Ref: DRN77329914The last time we saw him in our clinic was in March 2017 in the presence  of his son 
and we were told that he started drinking alcohol again and he was an inpatient for 
treatment of [mental health condition].  My understanding is that following that 
consultation, [Mr D] remained under the care of [mental health professionals] and he 
did not have any further surgical appointments.
I have seen no objective evidence to suggest  that this assessment is incorrect.  Mr D was 
also seen in 2016 by another consultant in HPB medicine where his alcohol use in relation to 
his chronic pancreatitis  was discussed. 
When the medical evidence was put to MetLifes  chief medical officer,  she confirmed that 
there was an indirect link because Mr Ds alcohol misuse led to his pancreatitis, which  in turn 
caused him to take the pain medication  that sadly led to his death.  
I agree  with this conclusion. I think there  is sufficient causation  from the use of alcohol to Mr 
Ds death in these specific circumstances, because the consultant has said his chronic 
pancreatitis was caused by alcohol  abuse.  It follows that where  the coroner has found Mr D 
to have a primary cause of death of toxicity from his medication, that this has sadly  resulted 
in turn from Mr Ds history of alcoholism. 
I believe that to be indirect, and that the policy exclusion reasonably applied to Mrs Ds two 
claims under the accident policies. It follows that I cannot uphold  the complaint, because I 
dont find MetLife to have  unreasonably applied the exclusion  or to have acted unfairly in 
deciding that alcohol misuse was indirectly  related to Mr Ds recorded cause of death.   
my final decision
I know this decision isnt what Mrs D has hoped for. But I can only uphold  a complaint if I 
consider the evidence and find a business  to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances. That hasnt happened  here  the terms in both MetLife  policies held by the 
late Mr D contained an exclusion for alcohol abuse, and this has been reasonably applied 
given the evidence regarding Mr Ds medical history.  
I therefore do not uphold the complaint, nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.   
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732991