K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that when her required mortgage payments increased, Yorkshire Building 
Society (trading as Norwich & Peterborough Building Society)  failed  to take the additional 
amount from her bank  account or to tell her that she needed to alter her standing order.  So 
unbeknown to her, she fell into arrears.
To resolve  her complaint  she wants N&P to refund all interest and penalties which she has 
been charged and refund the £72 letting administration  fee as she was expecting  it to take 
the new amount  plus the £72. N&P has just put the £72 on her mortgage account and she 
has been charged interest on that also, which shed like to be refunded  too. 
She also wants N&P to compensate her for the distress caused as it has been very 
inconvenient for her to borrow money  to pay a large amount of over £1,000 in one lump sum.
background
Miss S has a property  mortgaged to N&P. She applied for its consent to let the property. 
N&P gave consent by letter dated  11 May 2018.  It confirmed  that the interest rate would 
increase by 1% with a consequent increase  in the contractual monthly payment (CMP).
The CMP was made by direct debit  but on 30 November 2017 Miss S rang N&P to change 
her bank details. She says N&P told her she couldn't just do this by phone or email and it 
would need to send her a new direct debit mandate.
She told N&P she was staying with her mother and wouldn't be at home to receive the new 
mandate and didn't want to miss her CMP. N&P told her to set up a standing  order instead 
as she wouldnt need forms for this. 
On 7 December  2018 N&P wrote  to Miss S saying her CMPs were  about £1,000  in arrears.
She complains that the letter of 11 May 2018 didnt make it clear that she would need to 
contact her bank to change her standing order amount. 
She says N&P shouldnt  have let it go on for six months before contacting her. As a result 
she had to pay a large  sum in one amount which was inconvenient, and has been  charged 
for being in arrears which she never  even knew about.
On her complaint  to N&P it said Miss S had clarified  at the end of the call on 
30 November 2017 that she would contact  her bank and cancel the direct  debit and make 
the necessary  arrangements  to pay by standing order. N&P had written on 1 December 
2017 confirming  the direct debit had been  cancelled  and alternative arrangements would be 
needed if Miss S chose  not to re-set  up the direct  debit.
Miss S wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to this service, but our adjudicator 
didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Hed listened to the call she made  to N&P on 30 November 2017 where she discussed  
adding a correspondence address as her property was empty temporarily  whilst  she was 
caring for a sick relative. She discussed on this call changing the payment  method to 
standing order and cancelling  her direct debit, as instructions couldnt  be taken over the 
phone. The adjudicator was satisfied from listening to the call that she had a clear 
Ref: DRN76432542understanding of her responsibilities in terms of updating the payment amount when N&P 
informed her of any change.
N&P had written to her confirming that her instruction to cancel the direct  debit was actioned 
on 1 December 2017. The adjudicator had seen no evidence that shed contacted  N&P to 
revert to paying by direct  debit since she changed  to making  repayments  by standing  order  
from December 2017.
N&P had written to her on 11 May 2018,  confirming it had agreed to her application for 
consent to let and the increased CMP from June  2018. This should have been  a prompt  to 
remind her to make amendments to her standing order  payment.
As regards  N&P only contacting her in December  2018 about  the arrears,  it had confirmed 
that a full CMP being missed was the trigger point for formal contact. The repayments made 
between June and December 2018  were  91% of the expected repayment and this explained  
why no contact was made  sooner.
Miss S didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to look at the case. She said a full CMP 
being missed was the trigger point for contact  hence  N&P didnt contact her sooner. 
However this still wasnt a full months missed payment.  Therefore  the reason N&P had 
given didnt make  sense. It should  have notified  her after the first month when  the payment 
fell behind that she had underpaid.
She said N&Ps letter  of 11 May 2018  didnt say she needed to act or do anything. It was 
worded in a way that the payment N&P would take from June would [be updated] 
automatically instead. N&P never mentioned she needed to update  her standing order 
payment and hence she thought this had happened automatically. The letter  said the 
payment would be changing  and it wasnt clear she needed to amend this. The letter  made it 
sound that it was happening automatically.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The date and amount of a direct debit is controlled  by the receiving party.  The date and 
amount of a standing  order  is controlled by the paying party. Thats  the difference  between 
these two methods  of payment. If the date or amount of a standing  order could be controlled 
by the receiving party, it would be no different from a direct debit.
I dont agree that N&Ps letter of 11 May 2018 implied that the amount would be updated  
automatically. It didnt say that N&P would be changing the payment. It said that the monthly  
amount which  was due from Miss S would change. N&P had no power to take a higher 
amount or to alter the amount of Miss Ss standing order. This could only be done by her.
It may be that Miss S didnt appreciate the difference between a direct debit and a standing  
order, but that wasnt the fault of N&P.  
Nor do I agree that the reason N&P gives for not contacting Miss S earlier  doesnt  make 
sense. Lenders would be criticised for harassment  if they contacted a borrower immediately 
a CMP fell slightly short. N&Ps policy is to make contact when arrears  are equal to one 
Ref: DRN76432543CMP, and I think thats  reasonable. In this case it did so a little sooner than that, but in these 
circumstances that was of benefit  to Miss S.
Ive also listened  to a recording of Miss Ss phone  call to N&P on 30 November 2017. The 
N&P adviser told Miss S:
You can set up a standing order, if the payments change we would notify  you but then 
obviously you'd  have to be the one that would be responsible for changing that and 
amending the payment details.
Miss S then asked about direct debit  and the adviser  said:
When the company control it yes, it would automatically be amended  if any payment 
changed or anything like that, whereas  a standing order  is controlled by yourself.
I dont believe it was N&Ps responsibility to advise  Miss S of the difference between a direct  
debit and a standing order but it did in fact do so, correctly, and I cant see that N&P has 
done anything  wrong here.
Miss S also complains that N&P failed to take the £72 letting administration  fee from her 
bank account  and instead added  it to her mortgage  account and charged interest on it. But 
N&P had no power to take it from her bank account. N&Ps letter of 11 May 2018 said:
Due to the letting, the £72.00 administration fee has been  debited to the mortgage account.  
As previously advised, to avoid further  interest being  charged upon  any fees or charges, you 
should make  a payment equivalent to the fees or charges to your mortgage account.
Miss S didnt do that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7643254