K821x#15Complaint
Mr K says Shelby Finance  Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans  (DDL),  charged him more interest 
than it was entitled to. He thinks the interest rate charged should be capped at 0.8%  per day 
for the 44 days he had the loan. He also thinks the amount of interest  he owed shouldve 
decreased following a partial  early repayment.
Background
I sent Mr K and DDL my provisional findings on this complaint on 4 December 2019. A copy  
of that decision  is attached and forms part of this final decision.  I explained why I was 
planning to uphold Mr Ks complaint and asked both parties to let me know if they had 
anything to add.
Both Mr K and DDL responded and agreed  to my proposed  outcome.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr K and DDL accepted my provisional  decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So my final decision is the same  as my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons, and I am upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things  right
DDL must:
rework Mr Ks loan account to include a rebate of interest for the partial early 
settlement payment  made on 25 June 2018;
then calculate  how much Mr K wouldve had to pay to settle his loan on 25 July 2018,  
taking into account the rebate on 25 June 2018  and applying  a maximum daily rate of 
interest of 0.8% per day on the outstanding principal from 11 June to 25 July 2018;
refund  the amount Mr K paid in excess of the above to settle his loan, adding  interest  
to this amount  at 8% simple per year from 25 July 2018  until the date of settlement
HM Revenue & Customs requires DDL to take off tax from this interest. DDL must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN73673512My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
Shelby Finance Ltd must  put things  right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN73673513COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr K says Shelby Finance  Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans  (DDL),  charged him more interest than it 
was entitled to. He thinks the interest rate charged should be capped at 0.8% per day for the 44 days 
he had the loan. He also thinks the amount  of interest he owed shouldve decreased following  a 
partial early repayment.
Background
Mr K took out a £400 loan with DDL on 11 June 2018 by way of a fixed  sum loan agreement. The loan 
was due to run for six months, with monthly instalments of £130.39 and the total amount payable  
being £782.34. Mr K repaid his loan early by way of two payments; he paid £255 on 25 June  2018 
and then £336.20 on 25 July 2018. So Mr K paid £591.20, rather  than £782.34, a difference  of 
£191.14. The difference was deducted from the balance of Mr Ks account  by way of a rebate of 
interest.
Mr K says that as his loan ran for just 44 days, the interest he paid (£191.20) is equivalent to more 
than 0.8%1 per day  whereas his contract says The maximum interest rate that will apply  to your 
account is 0.8% per day.
I am not sure if Mr K is also alleging that this therefore breaches the Financial  Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA or the regulator) price cap2, which caps daily interest for loans like his at 0.8% - but I will 
address the matter of both the contractual and regulatory caps in my decision.
DDL says that although Mr K repaid his loan on 25 July 2018, it was entitled to calculate  the interest 
rebate in line with the Consumer Credit Act (Early Settlement)  Regulations 2004  which  allow it to 
take the settlement date as 28 days  later than the request to settle the loan in full. So DDL says it took 
the settlement date as 22 August 2018  meaning the term of the loan was equivalent to 72 days for 
the purpose of calculating the interest due. On this basis, DDL says it charged daily interest of no 
more than 0.66%, in line with both the regulatory and contractual cap.
DDL also says it didnt rebate any interest when Mr K made a part payment on 25 July 2018 as he 
didnt tell it he wanted to make a partial  settlement. It says that for partial  early settlement to apply, Mr 
K had to give notice of his intent to make a partial  settlement.3
Our adjudicator thought that DDL shouldve applied the interest rate cap of 0.8% per day only up until 
the actual date of settlement (she didnt  comment on whether the regulators  price cap was breached) 
as per Mr Ks understanding of the contract.
Our adjudicator also didnt  comment on whether DDL was right to not provide a rebate of interest in 
respect of Mr Ks part payment on 25 June 2018. This will be addressed for the first time in my 
provisional findings.
DDL didnt  think it had done anything  wrong  in respect of the daily rate of interest charged, so the 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
1 On this basis, I estimate Mr K paid interest equivalent  to approximately 1% per day (when  not 
making an allowance for Mr Ks first payment reducing the balance).
2 The relevant rules and guidance can be found in section  5A of the regulators consumer credit 
sourcebook (CONC).
3 DDL referred to section  94 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, as amended by the Consumer Credit 
(EU Directive) Regulations 2010.
Ref: DRN73673514My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
I think  there are three key issues to address in this complaint:
did DDL breach  the regulators price  cap?
does  the maximum contractual  rate of interest (0.8% per day) run until the actual date of 
settlement (as Mr K says) or for an additional 28 days (as DDL says)
should  there have been a rebate of interest in respect of the payment  Mr K made on 
25 June 2018?
Did DDL breach the regulators price cap?
I dont think its likely  the way DDL calculated  the interest due when Mr K settled his loan early  
breached the price  cap.
CONC 5A.3.3R  says the following about the daily interest rate cap (the underlining is mine):
A firm must not impose one or more  charges, on a borrower under an agreement  for high-cost short-
term credit,  that, alone  or in combination with any other charge  under the agreement or a connected 
agreement, exceed or are capable of exceeding  0.8%  of the amount of credit provided  under the 
agreement calculated per day from the date on which  the borrower draws  down the credit until the 
date on which repayment  of the credit  is due under  the agreement 
And CONC 5A.3.7R says:
The amount of credit provided under an agreement for high-cost short-term  credit for the purposes of 
CONC 5A.3.3 Ris the amount of credit outstanding on the day in question under the agreement,  
disregarding for the purposes of that rule the effect of the borrower discharging all or part of the 
borrower's indebtedness in accordance with section 94 of the [Consumer Credit Act] (right  to 
complete payments ahead of time) by repayment of credit before  the date provided for in the 
agreement.
So the cap is calculated with reference to the full contractual period and the amount of credit to which  
the cap applies is calculated disregarding the effect  of any early settlement.  Its worth noting that the 
amount of outstanding credit to which the 0.8% cap is applied will diminish once the agreed monthly  
instalments have paid off all the advance  interest and start to repay capital (as per 5A.3.5G)   but I do 
not think  this has much bearing  on Mr Ks complaint.
Im therefore  provisionally minded to say that DDL wasnt in breach  of the regulators price cap by 
calculating interest in the way it did.
What is the date of settlement for the purpose of the daily interest  rate cap?
Although DDL likely wasnt in breach of the regulators daily interest cap, theres  still the question  of 
which date to take as the correct date of full settlement  of the loan for the purpose of applying the 
contractual daily interest rate cap.
On the first page of Mr Ks credit agreement under the heading Cost of the credit it says, The 
maximum interest rate that will apply to your account is 0.8% per day.  
Ref: DRN73673515On the second page under  the heading  Your right to repay early it says, You have the right to repay 
early in full or in part at any time. If you wish to repay early, please  contact us by telephone, by email 
or by writing to us using the details provided above. When you contact us, we will let you know the 
amount you have to repay.
I think  the key question here is whether Mr Ks contract with DDL allowed  it to charge interest for an 
extra 28 days  upon full early settlement of the loan. If it did, the maximum contractual rate of interest 
of 0.8% per day (as quoted  above) can be calculated  up to 22 August 2018  and if it didnt  only up 
until the actual date of settlement, 25 July 2018.
DDL was obliged4 to inform  Mr K that he had the right to fully or partially settle his loan early. The 
exact wording isnt prescribed; the regulations simply  say, A statement that the debtor has the right to 
repay the credit early  at any time in full or partially  should be included in a Standard European 
Consumer Credit  Information (SECCI) document. This pre-contractual  information would usually be 
mirrored in the loan agreement. Ive not seen Mr Ks SECCI document, so I dont know what was 
disclosed to him before he entered into the loan agreement with DDL  but Ill assume  the relevant 
pre-contractual information  was phrased similarly to the loan agreement.
Based on the way DDL has chosen to phrase Mr Ks right to repay the loan early in his contract   and 
taken together  with the statement about the daily interest rate cap  I can see why Mr K has 
interpreted the contract in the way he has. 
The paragraph about early  settlement makes  no reference to section 94 of the consumer credit act 
and doesnt say that any rebate of interest will be based upon that. It simply  says that he can settle 
his loan early at any time and doesnt  say he must give 28 days notice.
Had the contract otherwise  been  silent  on this matter, it may have been fair for DDL to rely on the 
relevant statutory  provisions. However, when  taken together  with the interest rate cap paragraph, 
I dont think the contract can be said to be entirely  silent on the matter.  When read together, I can see 
how Mr K thought he could repay the loan at any time, paying no more than 0.8% interest per day.
So I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do is to apply the contractual cap in accordance  with Mr Ks 
understanding  which is that he could  repay the loan in full, at any time, in the expectation  that the 
maximum rate of interest which would apply  is 0.8% per day, until the actual date of settlement.  
I therefore  intend  to say that DDL should recalculate the amount of interest Mr K had to pay on his 
loan. It should do this based  both on a maximum interest rate of 0.8% per day and also on Mr K 
settling his loan after 44 days on 25 July 2018. DDL should then refund the extra interest Mr K paid.
Should there have been rebate of interest in respect of the payment  Mr K made  on 
25 June 2018?
I understand that Mr K called DDL on 25 June  2018 to make the payment of £255.  No call recording  is 
available, so I cant know what  exactly was discussed. Ive seen brief notes of the call, which say Mr K 
agreed the next scheduled  payment could be taken on the due date (25 July 2018) but that he might, 
as he did, settle the loan on that day.
As Ive mentioned above, DDL says Mr K didnt  tell it he wanted to make a partial early  settlement on 
25 June 2018, as per section 94 (4) (a) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit (Early  Settlement) Regulations 2004  will also be relevant  here. Regulation  5 (c) 
says that, where only a partial settlement is made, the settlement date for the calculation of a rebate 
of interest shall be taken  to be the date on which the early payment sum is paid. So, unlike with full 
early settlement, a creditor has no statutory  entitlement to take into account an additional  28 days of 
interest when  calculating an interest rebate for partial  settlement.
4The Consumer Credit (Disclosure of Information)  Regulations 2010.
Ref: DRN73673516With this in mind, Ive considered if DDL acted  fairly  by not treating the payment of 25 June  2018 as a 
partial early settlement  and am minded to find that it didnt.
I accept that under section 94 Mr K was required to provide notice to DDL either orally or in writing. 
But his payment wasnt  made  without any contact between the parties; it was made  during a phone  
call.
I think  its relatively unlikely that, as an ordinary consumer, Mr K wouldve  known hed have  to tell DDL 
to treat his part payment as a partial  early settlement in order to receive  an interest rebate at that 
time. Theres nothing in the loan agreement  which suggests that Mr K would only have a right to an 
interest rate rebate  if he gave DDL notice.  So, taking into account the relevant  regulations, if there 
was any doubt as to how the payment should  be treated,  I think DDL ought  to have clarified this with 
Mr K during the phone call and explained the options available. The notes provided  dont suggest  
there was any discussion of this.
What the notes do show  however is that Mr K intended at that point  to (fully) repay  the loan early  on 
25 July 2018. So he already had early settlement in mind and intended  to repay  the loan some five 
months earlier than scheduled. I think its therefore likely that had DDL explained  the options available 
to Mr K on 25 June 2018, hed have opted to have that payment treated as a partial early  settlement 
and would have received  an interest  rebate  at that time.
This means  Im also planning to say DDL should work out how much Mr K wouldve had to pay to 
settle his loan on 25 July 2018, had it treated the payment of 25 June 2018 as a partial early 
settlement  and refund  the difference  to Mr K.
Putting things right
I plan to tell DDL to do the following:
rework  Mr Ks loan account to include  a rebate of interest for the partial early settlement 
payment made on 25 June 2018;
then calculate how much Mr K wouldve had to pay to settle his loan on 25 July 2018, taking 
into account the rebate  on 25 June  2018  and applying a maximum daily rate of interest of 
0.8% per day on the outstanding principal from 11 June to 25 July 2018;
refund the amount  Mr K paid in excess of the above to settle his loan, adding interest to this 
amount at 8% simple per year from 25 July 2018 until the date of settlement
HM Revenue & Customs requires DDL to take off tax from this interest.  DDL must  give Mr K a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
I plan to uphold Mr Ks complaint and to tell Shelby Finance Ltd to put things right by taking the steps 
set out above.
Ref: DRN7367351