K820x#14complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. Hes unhappy about  a merchant  service contract he had with Elavon 
Financial Services Designated Activity  Company (Elavon).
background
Mr M was sold a card terminal hire package by a separate  company,  which  included  a 
merchant service contract with Elavon. Mr M is unhappy with how the package  was sold to 
him and says he has been  charged more by Elavon  than he was led to believe he would be.
To be clear I wont be considering how the Elavon contract was sold to Mr M as this wasnt 
sold by Elavon. So, I wont be looking at what Mr M was told about the contract  with Elavon.
Mr Ms complaint, and what I will be looking  at here,  is about  how Elavon contacted him to 
collect charges that were  due.
Mr M complains that Elavon wrote to his business  address and not his personal address 
when chasing  the outstanding debt. Mr M says he didnt receive these letters  and he only 
knew about the debt when he was contacted  by a debt collection agency.  He immediately 
paid the debt in full. He is concerned  that Elavons actions impacted his credit  rating.  Mr M is 
also unhappy that Elavon sent its response to his complaint to the business address when 
he had asked for it to be emailed to him instead. Mr M says he wants  the money  he paid to 
be refunded.
Elavon said all charges  applied  to Mr Ms account  were in line with the agreement held. It 
sent its letters to the address on the contract  and it wasnt aware Mr M couldnt receive them  
there. It confirmed Mr Ms account  had been  settled in full and closed. It apologised for not 
sending its complaint response  by email as requested.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  that Elavon could have used the 
personal details  it held to contact Mr M about the outstanding debt, especially as it had not 
had a response from him. To put things right she said it should arrange for any adverse 
information to be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
Elavon responded and said that it has not registered  any adverse information  against Mr Ms 
credit file.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator; he said he thought his complaint had been 
misunderstood. His complaint wasnt about  his credit file. Elavon had used his email and 
phone number for other communications,  so it could have used them  to contact  him about 
the debt. He mentioned he had spent a lot of time on the matter  and made  many  calls. He 
pointed out that Elavon still wrote to the business  address after being  told not to. Mr M said 
he thinks because of all the issues, Elavon  should  refund him his money and take it upon 
itself to pursue  that amount from the selling company.
my provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 21 October 2019. I said I intended  to 
uphold the complaint in part, for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN75739932Having looked  through the file, I cant see that Mr M made Elavon aware  that he was no 
longer associated with the business address before January 2019. So, it wasnt wrong to 
write to that address  about the outstanding debt. Arguably it could have  used the personal 
details it had on file for him, but this wasnt its usual process and it didnt have to do so.
I realise it would  have been a shock to Mr M to receive contact from a debt collection 
agency, but I can see he was able to sort out the issue with one telephone call. He paid the 
debt in full, it was recalled  from the debt collection agency and Elavon has subsequently said 
no adverse credit information has been recorded. Mr M did say he was initially  worried  about 
the possibility  of this in his complaint to us.
Elavon did write a letter to Mr M at the business address after it had been  asked not to and it 
has apologised for this. I think that is sufficient and no further compensation is due here.
Mr M has said that he has spent a lot of time on calls in trying  to resolve this issue,  however 
having listened to the call he had with our investigator, he is mainly referring to recovering 
the original money  from a contract he feels was mis-sold. As explained above, Ive not 
considered this issue as part of this complaint.
Mr M held an agreement  with Elavon, so it was entitled to collect the money due. It wrote to 
Mr Ms business address  to do this, and I think that was reasonable.  It did write to him at his 
business address  after being asked not to. However, I dont think  this issue  in itself means 
his money should  be refunded or that compensation should  be paid.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, Im not minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Elavon Financial 
Services Designated Activity Company.
responses to my provisional  decision
Elavon said it had received my decision but didnt have any further comment to make. 
Our investigator spoke  with Mr M to check hed received the decision which  he said he had, 
but he didnt think  Id understood his complaint. Mr M suggested he may write  in to reiterate 
his points but we havent received  anything further. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  
I appreciate Mr M feels I havent understood his complaint however he has not provided any 
further points  or evidence  for me to consider when reaching my final decision.  
Ref: DRN75739933my final decision
I reject  Mr Ms complaint  against Elavon Financial Services  Designated  Activity  Company.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7573993