K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a monthly premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr W was sold a MPPI policy  in 2000 during a meeting.  
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr W was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  Mr W didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr W was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Ws age, 
residence and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr W that the MPPI was optional  and needed  his consent 
before it could be applied to Mr Ws account.  Mr W says he did not knowingly take out PPI 
as he had other means of meeting the repayments.  
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr W has 
told us and have  considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide  what 
is more likely to have  happened during the sale.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. Within this document there is a section  for 
MPPI. Theres  nothing in this section  which  would suggest that the MPPI was compulsory 
and in fact this section gives  Mr W an option  as to whether or not to take PPI. I can see that 
the option to take PPI has been ticked. Mr W has said that the tick for this box differs  and 
suggests two separate people have completed  the application form. And he points out that 
he didnt sign the application form to take PPI. 
Ive considered this carefully. I accept that Mr W hasnt signed to take PPI. However, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that Mr W didnt choose to take PPI, especially 
when taken together with the rest of the evidence and information available.  
Mr W would  also have completed a separate application form for PPI. Santander no longer 
have a copy of this PPI application form but my understanding  of the sales process is that as 
well as a separate  application form being  completed, Mr W would also have  had to complete 
a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI premiums. Information from the policy 
Ref: DRN71058882administrator shows that a direct debit mandate was received and it also appears that Mr W 
cancelled PPI in 2005.
So all in all, I think Mr W would have been  aware that he had taken out PPI, and that 
Santander did make  it clear to Mr W that PPI was optional and it was applied to the account 
because he chose to take it out.
Santander accept  they advised  Mr W to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for him. I dont know if Santander took all the steps they should have to check  if the 
MPPI was suitable for Mr W but I do think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because:
-Mr W has told us he wouldnt have received any employee sick pay or redundancy 
pay. He says his parents would have  helped him. However, this type of help could 
not have been guaranteed  when the need arose  as circumstances change  and 
ultimately the repayments were Mr Ws responsibility alone. So it appears  that the 
MPPI would  have been of value in these  circumstances  given that it was protecting a 
valuable asset.
-Mr W didnt  appear  to have been affected by the terms in the policy which  would 
have made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim  under the policy.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr W at 
the time of the sale.
-Mr W could  have cancelled the MPPI  at any time without losing out financially if he 
no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr W, Santander  also had to give him 
clear information about the MPPI   in particular about the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed decision about  whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr W wasnt  as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether  
better information would  have  put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons  I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr W this 
MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71058883
Ref: DRN7105888