K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that TSB Bank  plc declined  their request for additional borrowing 
and to port their mortgage. They also complain that TSB said it would waive  the early 
repayment change  (ERC) if they moved to another  lender and then  after theyd  applied  
elsewhere  said it would apply the charge. Mr and Mrs M say that TSB should refund the 
ERC and survey fee and pay compensation.
background 
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with TSB. They wanted to move  house and applied to TSB 
for additional borrowing and to port their mortgage.  They say the reason given by TSB for 
declining their application was incorrect. They say that TSB told them  it would waive their 
ERC if they repaid the mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say if theyd known theyd have to pay the 
ERC they would have  waited until it no longer applied before moving house.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld  saying:
TSB has to carry out affordability checks when deciding whether to offer additional 
borrowing. TSB had given Mr and Mrs M incorrect information  about why it declined  their 
application. But this didnt mean  its decision not to offer additional lending was wrong  or 
unfair. The investigator said TSBs reasons  for declining Mr and Mrs Ms application for 
additional borrowing  were fair;
TSB gave Mr and Mrs M incorrect information that it would  waive the ERC. It gave them  
correct information  a week later. They could have  chosen  to cancel their application to 
another lender and wait until the ERC  didnt apply. TSB offered £300  compensation and 
to refund the survey fee. The investigator said this was fair.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. Mrs M said TSB took too long to make its decision whether to 
lend. This meant they had less time to consider what to do when their application was 
declined. Mrs M says because of this and being  told there was adverse data on their credit 
file theyd had to apply to a non-high  street  lender. This means  theyre paying a higher rate 
of interest.  
Mrs M said TSB didnt correct its error about saying  it would waive  the ERC. She said it only 
gave her correct information when she chased  it for a letter confirming the ERC would be 
waived. Mrs M said the compensation offered isnt enough for the stress and financial loss 
caused by TSBs errors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage, of £161,000, with TSB in 2015.  The mortgage  offer says 
an ERC is payable  if the mortgage is repaid before  31 October  2020.  The amount of the 
ERC reduces if the mortgage  is repaid after specified dates. The mortgage offer says the 
Ref: DRN79502442product is portable, in which case the ERC  wont usually be payable. Mr and Mrs M took out 
additional borrowing, of £36,000, in mid 2017. An ERC also applied to this borrowing.
the application for additional borrowing and to port the mortgage
Mr and Mrs M applied to port their mortgage in mid 2018. They  also applied for additional 
borrowing of about  £53,000. Theyd been  given a decision in principle and made a formal 
application, through a broker, in May 2018. Evidence of their income was provided to TSB in 
early June 2018.
TSB declined Mr and Mrs Ms application,  saying  this was because of undisclosed adverse 
data. TSB reviewed its decision when their broker asked  it to. In mid June 2018  TSBs 
underwriters declined the application.
TSB made an error  when it told Mr and Mrs M their application was declined  because of 
undisclosed adverse data.  It had known about this data when it offered Mr and Mrs M a 
mortgage in 2015. I understand why Mr and Mrs M are upset about  this. I think it was right 
that TSB asked its underwriters to review the application. 
TSB had to assess whether the loan repayments were affordable and that the application 
met its lending criteria. After its underwriters  had reviewed the application  and 
Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances, TSB declined Mr and Mrs Ms application. I dont 
think it acted unfairly  when it made the decision not to lend.  I dont think  there were 
significant unnecessary delays  in TSB making its decision.  
incorrect information about the ERC
TSB incorrectly told Mrs M on 16 June 2018 that the ERC would be waived. It gave Mrs M 
correct information   that the ERC would be applied  on 21 June 2018. 
The ERC is clearly set out in the mortgage  offer. Mr and Mrs M agreed to this when they 
took out the mortgage. While TSB made an error, it gave correct information  about the ERC 
within a week of the error. I dont think its reasonable to require TSB to waive  the ERC. 
the cost of the ERC and Mr and Mrs Ms new mortgage
Mrs M says by the time she was given correct  information  about the ERC theyd made  an 
application to another  lender, paid a survey fee, a property reservation  fee and legal fees 
totalling about £1,400  and were committed to the purchase. She says if shed had correct  
information and more time to think about it theyd  have  delayed their purchase.  
But I think, while Mr and Mrs M had made  an application to another mortgage  lender, they 
could have cancelled  their application  and decided not to proceed with their purchase.  I 
appreciate that theyd  have lost the money theyd already paid towards  their purchase. If 
theyd decided not to proceed  and could show theyd incurred these costs as a result of the 
incorrect information about the ERC, Id have  considered whether its fair to require TSB to 
pay compensation for this. But, as Mr and Mrs M decided to proceed,  I dont think  its fair to 
require TSB to pay compensation for these costs, which all relate to their purchase. 
Mrs M says due to the limited time they had and having been wrongly told by TSB their 
application was declined due to undisclosed  adverse data, they had to apply  to a non-high 
street lender  for their mortgage. This means  theyre paying a higher rate of interest.  
Ref: DRN79502443TSB made an error  when it said Mr and Mrs Ms application was declined  due to undisclosed 
adverse data: it knew about  the data when  it offered  Mr and Mrs M a mortgage in 2015.  
Theres no dispute though that there  was adverse  data on Mr and Mrs Ms credit file.
All lenders have  to assess whether lending is affordable and whether an application  meets 
its criteria. I dont know whether another high street lender would have offered Mr and Mrs M 
a mortgage at a better rate than the mortgage  they agreed.  
Ultimately, it was Mr and Mrs Ms decision to proceed with their purchase and mortgage 
application with another lender. In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to require 
TSB to refund the ERC or pay compensation for Mr and Mrs Ms higher interest costs.
updates to Mr and Mrs Ms credit file
Mr and Mrs M repaid their TSB mortgage at the end of July 2018. They  say TSB didnt 
update their credit files promptly. TSB says there  were delays in reporting data to the credit  
reference agencies,  but this has been  resolved. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration 
about this. 
I havent seen  evidence that Mr and Mrs M suffered  a financial loss due to delays in their 
credit file being updated. In the circumstances,  I dont  think  its reasonable to require TSB to 
pay compensation. 
what should happen now?
TSB made some errors here which caused inconvenience and upset to Mr and Mrs M. But I 
dont think, based on the available  evidence, TSBs errors caused  Mr and Mrs M any 
financial loss. TSB offered  to refund its fee for the property  valuation and pay compensation 
of £300. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc should refund the fee for the property  valuation  carried  out 
on its behalf and pay compensation of £300 to Mr and Mrs M, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7950244