K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the advice they received from Gerald  Pepper  Financial 
Management Limited (GPFM) in 2017.
background
Mr and Mrs J met with GPFM in February  2017.
Following this meeting  GPFM prepared an investment report dated March 2017.
In this report GPFM recommended that Mr and Mrs J invest in the region of £218,000, split 
between a stocks  and shares  general investment account each and a stocks  and shares  ISA 
each.
Following this advice  Mr and Mrs J invested  approximately £227,000, split between  a stocks  
and shares general  investment account each and a stocks and shares  ISA each.
The invested  sum of approximately £227,000 came from cash on deposit,  two cash  ISAs  
and two with profit bonds. The two with profit  bonds  (one in the name of Mrs J and one in the 
name of Mr and Mrs J) were surrendered to raise  approximately £105,000.
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that the 
advice given by GPFM was, in all the circumstances, suitable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and so their complaint  has been  passed to me for review and 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  
Its clear Mr and Mrs J have very strong feelings  about this matter. They have provided 
detailed submissions in support  of their complaint which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that Mr and Mrs J will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs J say there was no discussion with them about their attitude to risk (ATR). And 
on reflection, they dont  understand why they were  rated by GPFM  as having an ATR of 5 
on a scale of 1 to 10 (10 being the highest).
Ref: DRN77827112GPFM have  been able to provide a detailed risk report  for Mr J, summarising the outcome of 
a questionnaire it says was completed  with him. Now I appreciate that Mr J says he didnt 
see sight of this report, but Im not persuaded that GPFM would have gone to all the trouble 
of producing it to then not provide Mr J with a copy.
Furthermore I can see that the established ATR of 5 for Mr J is repeated in the client fact find 
and for both Mr and Mrs J in the Investment report. So Im not persuaded that there  was no 
discussion around Mr and Mrs Js ATR as they submit.
Mr and Mrs J say they dont understand why they were  rated  5 on a scale  of 1 to 10. But 
based on what was recorded as being  their personal circumstances and objectives Im 
satisfied that such  a rating was reflective  of the risk Mr and Mrs J were  both able and willing 
to take. I would also add that just because Mr and Mrs J were invested,  prior to 2017, in 
cash, cash ISAs and two with profit  bonds doesnt,  in itself, make their assessed ATR of 5 
inappropriate, or the advice that they received unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt understand the GPFM  process and they shouldnt have been  
offered such an option. From this, I assume Mr and Mrs J are saying they didnt understand 
what was being  recommended to them or why, and what  was recommended  to them 
shouldnt have been. 
But notwithstanding all the information GPFM says was provided to Mr and Mrs J, I might  
have expected them to have asked  GPFM for clarification on anything they were unsure 
about. And had they done so, Im satisfied that clarity would have been provided. 
Furthermore if Mr and Mrs J had wanted to change their mind about  the investment they 
made, following  GPFMs advice, they had the right to do so, a right that in my view was 
pointed out to them in more than one document. Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Mr and Mrs J say that they werent  advised of the effect various  charges  might have on their 
investment and they werent offered the opportunity  of paying for GPFMs  advice upfront. 
However I disagree.
Having looked  at the investment report prepared for Mr and Mrs J dated March 2017, which 
for the avoidance  of doubt Im satisfied they were  provided a copy of, I note that:
There was no charge for GPFMs  advice, so there was no charge for Mr and Mrs J to 
pay upfront.
The product  and investment charges were detailed in both percentage terms and in 
monetary terms (the latter being  based  on an initial investment of £218,080).
The product  and investment charges were compared with the charges Mr and Mrs J 
were paying on their existing with profit  bonds.  It was also recorded  that 
Mr and Mrs Js existing cash ISAs (and cash on deposit) werent  subject to any 
charges for comparison purposes.
 
Charges being  marginally higher under the recommended investment (compared to 
Mr and Mrs Js with profit bonds) were noted  and addressed.
Ref: DRN77827113So taking everything into account Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs J should have been fairly  
aware of the charges that would apply to their recommended  investment and the effect this 
would have on any return that investment made.
Mr and Mrs J say the investment report doesnt compare the performance of what  was being 
recommended against  what  they already held over a five year time horizon. However,  Im 
not aware GPFM was obliged to do this. Furthermore Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs J 
would have elected not to invest  had this information been provided.  Finally on this point, 
and as was documented, past performance  is no guarantee of future returns, something Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs J would have been aware  of. Therefore I dont uphold this aspect  of 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Mr and Mrs J say the investment report doesnt compare the performance of their with profit 
bonds with the investment that was being recommended. But Im satisfied that it does, albeit 
over one year only and as addressed by me above.
Mr and Mrs J say GPFM failed to explain the standing of their existing with profit bonds and 
if surrendered they couldnt be reinstated. However,  having considered  the content of the 
fact find and investment  report, amongst other  documentation, Im satisfied that the standing 
of Mr and Mrs Js bonds was discussed  with them. I can see from the various documentation 
that has been provided that the following  details  about Mr and Mrs Js with profit  bonds  was 
noted:
Ownership
Lives assured
Provider
Initial sum invested
Withdrawals made
Investment strategy
Risk
Part surrenders
Fund value
Surrender value
Charges
Bonuses accrued
Potential future bonuses
Turning to Mr and Mrs Js point that if they surrendered their with profit bonds in order  to 
invest along the lines recommended by GPFM then reinstatement of the same  wouldnt be 
possible. But notwithstanding that I think Mr and Mrs J ought  to have reasonably understood 
this would be the case Im not persuaded that they would have done anything different  had 
this fact been pointed out to them. Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs J say they were pressured into investing  in the manner that they did. But Ive 
simply not seen enough  evidence to conclude this was the case. In coming to this conclusion 
Ive had regard  to, amongst other  things,  that Mr and Mrs J met GPFM in both February and 
March 2017 and didnt invest till April 2017.  
Ref: DRN77827114Mr and Mrs J say the advantages of retaining their with profit  bonds  wasnt  discussed. But 
based on what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied, on balance,  they were. 
Furthermore all investments have advantages and disadvantages and its important to 
consider what advantages  are gained by investing in a certain manner  with those that are 
lost, rather than just those that are lost in isolation.
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt have sight, at the material time,  of all the key documents, 
documents which have  since  been  provided to them  under a data access  request. And in 
respect of documents they signed,  they only had sight of the page  that required their 
signatures. However Im not persuaded by either  submission. As I say above,  in respect of 
the risk report, Im simply not persuaded that GPFM would have gone to all the trouble to 
produce the documents that it did to then not give Mr and Mrs J copies of them.  And if 
Mr and Mrs J were presented (in respect of the documents they signed) just the page  that 
required their signatures,  I might  have expected them to question this, especially as they 
were being  advised on how to best invest over £200,000. Therefore I dont uphold this 
aspect of Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Mr and Mrs J say the meetings they had with GPFM  were rushed  and very little explanation 
was provided. But Ive seen insufficient  evidence to be able to reasonably conclude this was 
the case. In coming to this conclusion  Ive had regard to, amongst other things, the very 
detailed and contemporaneous documents that GPFKM has been able to provide our 
service and that there was two meetings with Mr and Mrs J rather than one. Therefore I dont 
uphold this aspect  of Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
In summary  Im not persuaded, based  on what Mr and Mrs J say were their circumstances  
and objectives  in 2017, that the advice  they received was unsuitable. I would also point  out 
that advice given to consumers only needs  to be suitable, and not the most suitable.
Finally, although  not material  to my consideration of this complaint, Mr and Mrs J dont 
appear to have suffered any loss of capital  by investing in the manner that they did. 
Furthermore, it would  also appear  that they might  have earned a higher return  on their 
investment than they might have otherwise earned. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision,  
however, represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure. 
Mr and Mrs J dont have to accept  my decision and if they dont do so, they will be free to 
pursue legal action against Gerald Pepper Financial Management Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7782711