K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Group 1 Automotive UK Limited (Group  1) mis-sold  a guaranteed 
asset protection (GAP) policy.
background
Mrs C acquired  a car on a 48 month personal  contract purchase  (PCP) finance agreement. 
She also bought  a return to invoice GAP policy. Over three years later her car was damaged 
in an accident  and deemed  a total loss. Her motor insurer paid the claim for the market  value 
of the car. Mrs C claimed  on her GAP policy for the difference  between that settlement and 
the higher of the amount she bought her car for or the amount outstanding on her finance 
agreement. The GAP insurer refused her claim. It said her policy only provided cover for 
36 months and as that period had expired  she wasnt  covered when her car was deemed a 
total loss. Mrs C complained as she thought  the GAP policy  would cover  the period  of her 
finance agreement, which is for four years
On 2 September 2019 I issued a provisional decision. For ease Ive copied  my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
During the sales process Group 1 identified that Mrs C could  benefit  from a GAP policy. So it 
recommended a policy to Mrs C. As it made  a recommendation that means it sold the policy 
on whats known as an advised sale  basis.  And when making an advised sale Group 1 is 
required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice. 
The policy Group 1 recommended only provided  cover for 36 months.  But Mrs Cs PCP 
agreement ran for 48 months. And the nature of that agreement meant that she would still 
owe a considerable sum on it after the 36 month term of her GAP cover had expired. So a 
policy that only covered  part of that period wasnt suitable for her needs as it wouldnt cover 
the shortfall of any finance for the last year she had to pay it. So I dont think it was 
reasonable for Group  1 to recommend it to Mrs C, unless  it had made it clear that it wouldnt 
cover the full term of her finance  agreement during the sales process. And it didnt  do that.
Group 1 pointed out that the 36 month  term of Mrs Cs policy  was included in the demands  
and needs statement which  she signed  and in the policys key facts  that it gave her. Mrs C 
doesnt dispute that. But she said that she didnt realise there  was a difference. She 
assumed the policy would be for the same term as her finance agreement, as otherwise she 
thought it wouldnt  be fit for purpose. And given that Group 1 had recommended  the policy 
for her I think it was reasonable  that she relied  on its recommendation.
Group 1s said that as its customers can buy cars using a wide range of payment terms it 
cant provide a GAP  policy to match  every  agreement  term. And to do so would simply 
make it too complicated for our staff or customers to understand. So it said it only offers  
limited term options. However, I dont see anything  complicated about offering a four year 
policy for a four year finance agreement.  But even if Group 1 doesnt  wish to offer a wider 
range of insurance products,  given that the sale was advised, it needed to be clear to Mrs C 
that she might not find the policy suitable,  because it wouldnt cover the full period of her 
finance agreement. Theres no evidence it did that other than issuing the policy  documents. 
And I dont  find it reasonable that just because it only offered a limited number of products it 
Ref: DRN75482752should recommend  one of those - even  though  it wasnt suitable  for Mrs Cs needs.  So I 
dont think Group 1 took reasonable care to ensure the suitability of the advice and it 
mis-sold the policy. 
Ive thought about whats likely to have  happened  if Group 1 had appropriately advised  
Mrs C that the policy wouldnt cover the full term of her PCP. And I think  if it had done so she 
would have bought a different policy that covered the full term of her finance agreement  from 
another provider.  And that policy would  have paid the difference between  her motor insurers  
settlement and the invoice price of her car or the outstanding finance after it was declared a 
total loss. So, I think Mrs Cs lost out on receiving that settlement because of Group 1s 
unsuitable advice.  
In order to put things  right I will require Group 1 to return Mrs C to the position that she 
would have been in had she bought a policy that did cover her for the full term. That means 
Group 1 should  step into the shoes  of Mrs Cs GAP insurer and pay Mrs Cs claim for the 
greater of the difference between her motor insurers settlement and:
 the invoice  price of her car, or 
 the amount  required to settle the outstanding  balance on Mrs Cs finance  agreement.
It should also refund the excess Mrs Cs motor insurer  charged - up to £250 - as per the 
terms of her policy.  It should add simple  interest  to the above  amounts at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mrs Cs claim to the date it makes payment.
developments
Mrs C accepted my provisional  decision and provided some  documents  providing  the figures 
for the sale of her car and her motor insurers settlement  of her claim.
Group 1 didnt agree with my provisional  decision and it made a number of detailed points in 
response to it. Of relevance to this specific case it said:
 It provided evidence to show that it had given Mrs C the terms of the GAP  policy  and 
she signed declarations that she was provided with all relevant information. It said it 
believed it had followed the full regulatory  process professionally and Mrs C had 
understood the sale and made  an informed  decision  to buy the policy.
 The GAP policy is not linked to a specific finance agreement.  And people who dont 
take out finance agreements will also buy it.
 The highest risk in regard to a GAP policy is in the earlier  years of purchase where 
the depreciation on a vehicle is steeper than latter years. It said that this was why the 
insurance market originally only provided shorter  term policies.
 As it offered the policy from a single insurer and the market and or insurer  restricts 
term on policies it wouldnt  have  been  reasonable for it not to have recommended 
the policy that covered the early  years after the purchase. It said that the more 
substantial risk period  and the cover  it recommended  was better than no cover.
 Prior to Mrs C buying the car on which the claim was made, shed previously bought 
two other cars on four year PCP agreements and on both occasions had also bought 
a 36 month GAP policy. On the most recent  of those Mrs C had changed the car after 
Ref: DRN7548275318 months and cancelled the GAP  policy and received a proportionate  refund of its 
premium. It said that if shed expected a refund for the equivalent of a four year policy  
term then she would  have  queried  the settlement made.  
 Mrs C had experience of the policy  and how long it ran for as shown by her actions,  
which limited the possibility of her making wrong  assumptions.
 The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) has said that a customer, like Mrs C, must 
take a degree of responsibility for their own actions in such circumstances. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Id seen the sales documents that Group  1 referred  to when coming  to my provisional 
decision. I agree those  correctly refer to the 36 month term of the GAP  policy.  But Im 
persuaded by Mrs Cs evidence that she hadnt fully understood  that the GAP policy wouldnt 
match the term of her PCP finance  agreement. The fact that she signed  a document  doesnt  
necessarily mean she had understood all the implications of it. And Group  1 sold the policy 
on an advised basis. So in order  to make sure its advice was suitable it needed to point out 
to Mrs C that the policy wouldnt cover the full term of Mrs Cs finance  agreement.  
It might help if I explain that PCP agreements  typically have smaller monthly payments than 
other finance agreements. And the consumer only owns the car at the end of the agreement 
after paying  a large balloon payment. So, those buying a car on a PCP agreement might 
still owe significant sums to the lender some time after the agreement begins.  As a result, 
consumers who may be concerned that they will still owe money on such  an agreement,  if 
their car is declared a total loss, and wish to cover any shortfall with a GAP policy would 
most likely wish to choose a policy for the full term of the finance  agreement.  So I dont 
accept Group 1s argument that Mrs C made  a fully informed decision when she bought a 
three year GAP policy.
Similarly, I accept  that the GAP  policy isnt linked to any particular finance  product. But for 
the reasons given above its likely that those buying a car on finance will be concerned  about  
a shortfall in the repayments of that finance in the event that their car is seemed a total loss. 
So I think Group 1 needed to make  clear to Mrs C that she could still be left owing finance if 
she bought the policy Group 1 recommended. But it didnt  do so.
Group 1 said that the largest risk for a GAP insurer is in the early years  after the consumer 
has bought the policy and offered its opinion on why insurers  originally only offered short 
term polices. I dont  know if Group 1s analysis is correct  but I dont find it relevant. What I do 
know is that at the time it recommended Mrs C buy her GAP policy,  longer  term GAP 
policies that matched her finance  term were  available on the market  that would have suited 
her needs  better. But, as Ive already said, theres no evidence that Group  1 advised Mrs C 
why the policy it sold her might not be suitable  for her.
Similarly, I dont  find the fact that just because Group 1 apparently only offered a single  GAP  
policy, for a single term, from a single  insurer  is an acceptable reason for it not to provide 
advice Mrs C could rely on.
Ref: DRN75482754Group 1 also referred to the fact Mrs C had previously bought other  equivalent polices when 
buying cars on similar finance agreements. But Ive seen no evidence that it advised Mrs C 
on those occasions  why the GAP  policy might not have  been suitable for her needs. So I 
wouldnt have expected her to know that those polices also might not have been suitable for 
her. 
Group 1 noted  that Mrs C had previously cancelled a GAP  policy  early and received a 
pro rata refund. It now argues, because of that, Mrs C must have realised that the refund 
would have been less than she could  have expected if the term had been for four years.  But 
Im not persuaded by that argument. Its more  likely  that she would simply have  looked  at the 
refunds the insurer provided to see if that added up, rather than to wonder whether or not 
that met her finance terms. So I dont find the fact Mrs C had previously brought similar 
products meant that she made an informed decision when Group 1 recommended she buy 
the GAP policy  in issue.
Group 1s said that the FCA has said that customers have to take some  responsibility for 
their own actions. But whether or not its made generic remarks of that nature isnt relevant 
here. Group 1 is regulated  by the FCA, Mrs C isnt. So when buying a regulated  product 
such as a GAP policy  Mrs C isnt under a regulatory obligation to take certain  actions. But 
Group 1 does have  regulatory responsibilities when it recommends such products on an 
advised sale basis. And those regulatory responsibilities include giving Mrs C advice shes  
entitled to rely on. But its advice didnt go far enough  because  it didnt make it clear that the 
product it recommended  might not meet  her needs. 
For completeness, in its response to my provisional  decision, Group 1 provided an 
explanation as to why cancellation or renewal  letters werent  sent. But those werent  issues 
that influenced my provisional decision; so I dont intend to comment  on those here.
It follows that Im not persuaded to amend my provisional findings.  So, in order  to put things 
right, I require Group 1 to return  Mrs C to the position that she would have  been  in had she 
bought a policy that covered her for the full term. That means Group 1 should  step into the 
shoes of Mrs Cs GAP  insurer and pay Mrs Cs claim for the greater of the difference 
between her motor insurers settlement and:
 the invoice  price of her car, or 
 the amount  required to settle the outstanding  balance on Mrs Cs finance  agreement.
It should also refund the excess Mrs Cs motor insurer  charged - up to £250 - as per the 
terms of her policy.  It should add simple  interest  to the above  amounts at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mrs Cs claim to the date it makes payment.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require Group 1 Automotive UK 
Limited to step into the shoes of Mrs Cs GAP insurer and pay Mrs Cs claim for the greater 
of the difference between her motor  insurers settlement and:
 the invoice  price of her car, or 
 the amount  required to settle the outstanding  balance on Mrs Cs finance  agreement.
Ref: DRN75482755It should also refund the excess Mrs Cs motor insurer  charged - up to £250 - as per the 
terms of her policy.  It should add simple  interest  to the above  amounts at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mrs Cs claim to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Group 1 considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing  
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7548275