K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained Skrill Limited  didnt help him when  he sent $1,000  for forex  trading 
services and received  nothing in return.
background
Mr B set up an account with Skrill in March 2019. After transferring funds into his account, 
Mr B made a payment of $1,000 for forex trading  services. Hed been looking for forex 
investment opportunities and believed this was the right move. He realised quite quickly he 
was getting nothing in return and in all likelihood had been scammed.
He complained to Skrill  and the ombudsman service. Initially Mr B denied making this 
payment. However  he admitted he had when  we confirmed Skrills evidence showed he had 
authorised the transactions. He didnt understand why Skrill couldnt  have identified the 
fraudster and get his money  back.
Our investigator explained Mr B had only a limited  transaction  history with Skrill so they 
would be unable to identify what was unusual payment  behaviour and what  wasnt. Theyd 
immediately reviewed the account the money was sent to but this had already been 
removed. Overall hed not identified Skrill having  done anything counter to the rules  and best 
practice around payments or setting up accounts.
Mr B refused  to believe nobody could help when hed lost a considerable amount of money.
His complaint has been  passed to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  as our investigator.  Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
or payment services institutions to refund  customers if they didnt  make  or authorise 
payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an 
impact on the decision  Im making here.  So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly 
in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt  ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Skrill and Mr B have told us. Ive also reviewed the views my colleagues have  
Ref: DRN77389882completed on 22 November 2019  and 14 August 2020. I wont be repeating all the points 
made there as the facts  have  been explained already.
Firstly theres  the law as highlighted above. In broad terms a bank  or financial services 
institution is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to 
make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  
of the customers account. I have  taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable  to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer.    
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to look to identify and help prevent  transactions  particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could  involve fraud  or be the result of a scam (something 
also recognised  by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of). Skrill is not 
subject to the BSI Code.
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
I can reassure Mr B that Ive taken  all these  measures into account when reaching my 
conclusion.
Theres no dispute Mr B authorised the transaction. The key aspect I have noted is that Mr B 
had no transaction  history  with Skrill. I think it would be unreasonable  to expect Skrill to have  
raised any concerns  about Mr Bs first transaction. In fact what they were doing was 
following Mr Bs instructions to make  a payment to another Skrill account. This payment 
wasnt exceptionally high-value  although I dont dispute Mr B believes this was a large 
amount of money  for him. But theres nothing to indicate Skrill should have known this or 
raised any concern  or alert with Mr B.
Mr B has accepted he was looking to invest  in forex trading. He thought this was what he 
was doing so in all likelihood he wouldnt have welcomed  at the time he made the 
transaction  Skrill intervening in any way. I can see no basis at the time that Skrill should 
have identified the transaction as problematic.
As soon  as Mr B alerted  Skrill,  the evidence shows they checked the recipient account. 
None of Mr Bs funds remained. 
Ive looked at the evidence, as did our investigator, of Skrills responsibilities in setting up the 
account that received Mr Bs money.  Our investigator laid out the rules which allow  us to do 
this in his view.
This evidence shows  Skrill followed all the appropriate security checks before opening this 
account. Before  Mr B alerted them to the problem hed had, Ive seen nothing to show Skrill 
Ref: DRN77389883had any other concerns  about the way this account was run. There is a possibility that the 
recipient account  was also the victim of fraud  and account takeover.
After reviewing all the evidence, Ive got bad news for Mr B. I dont believe it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Skrill to refund the money  he lost. I dont believe what  happened was 
Skrills fault or that they could have known in advance  what would happen.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Skrill 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7738988