K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains about advice given by Martin Aitken  Financial Services  Limited (MAFS)  to 
consolidate his pensions by transferring them to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  
and use a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to invest the funds held in his SIPP. 
Background
I issued a provisional decision on 15 July 2020. Ive recapped the background below:
In late 2014 Mr F was considering his investment and retirement options. He did some 
research online and contacted an unregulated introducer who referred Mr F to MAFS. MAFS 
adviser and the introducer visited Mr F at his home on 14 January 2015. MAFS produced a 
Retirement Planning Report but Mr F didnt proceed  with that.
MAFS reviewed  Mr Fs circumstances again  and on 14 July 2015 produced a second report. 
It recorded that Mr F was 63 and in good health; had recently retired but had been earning 
£138,500 a year; was receiving a pension income of around £9,000 a year; had five defined  
contribution pensions with a combined value of about  £1.1 million;  and total assets, including  
his pensions, of around £2.3 million. His attitude to risk (ATR) was 5/10, described as a 
balanced or Medium attitude to investment risk with regard to your pension funds 
MAFS recommended that Mr F transfer  his pensions to a SIPP and use a DFM, who Ill call 
Company H, to manage his investment portfolio. MAFS said Company H would analyse the 
results of Mr Fs risk profile  questionnaire and recommend a bespoke  investment portfolio.
MAFS charges were confirmed as an initial charge  of 1% of the transfer  value (£11,206)  
which was a reduction against MAFS standard  initial fee of 3%. MAFS would also receive 
an ongoing adviser charge of 0.5% per annum for annual reviews  and ongoing advice.  
Mr F accepted MAFS recommendation and between 4 August and 24 August 2015 the total 
value of his pension funds (£1,156,892.77)  was transferred to a new SIPP.
But Mr F had also,  on 3 August 2015,  sent a signed letter to a different DFM Ill call 
Company S confirming  he wished to purchase units in its OWG Bond for £300,000. The 
letter said Mr Fs trading account with Company  S had been  set up on an execution only 
basis by the SIPP provider and that any instructions  to trade  needed to come  from Mr F. 
On 6 August  2015 Mr F completed  Company  Hs account opening form. It said he wanted to 
invest £840,000  with Company H. Under Investment Risk and Objectives the following 
selections were both made to confirm Mr Fs risk tolerance:
Medium- some tolerance to fluctuation of capital value and/or current income in normal 
market circumstances
High- All of the portfolio  can be subject to increased risk and the possibility of significant 
fluctuation of capital value. There is the potential for above average return to capital invested 
but also the risk of substantial loss, potentially in excess of your initial  deposit.  These  
products are not suitable to any investor who is seeking to preserve capital of to minimise 
their exposure to capital  loss. By selecting  high risk you are agreeing to invest through a 
managed CFD [Contract  for Difference] account.  An investment in CFDs  carries  a high risk 
of loss ()
Ref: DRN72675012The following  statement  was also made:
I confirm  I am willing  to invest through  a managed CFDs account. I also confirm that I am 
only investing money that I can afford  to lose. I understand this is a high risk speculative 
product ()
The form said Mr F already had experience investing in Derivatives.  In signing the form he 
confirmed the contents were  correct, he understood the risks involved with CFD trading and 
no advice had been given by Company H. 
Mr F says when  he signed the form it was blank. He doesnt have derivatives experience. 
Mr Fs account  with Company S was opened  on 10 August 2015. 
The SIPP provider emailed MAFS on 13 August 2015 outlining  which  of Mr Fs funds had 
been received  and which were outstanding.  It also confirmed  £56,359.75  had been sent to 
Company S for investment. On 21 August 2015  the SIPP provider confirmed to MAFS and 
Mr F that a further £243,740.25 had been transferred to Company S for investment.
On 25 August 2015 Mr F sent a signed letter to Company S confirming he wanted to 
purchase more units (£80,000) in the OWG Bond. The letter repeated  that his SIPP trading 
account with Company  S was execution  only and instructions to trade  had to come  from him.
The SIPP provider confirmed to MAFS on 28 August 2015  that £80,000 had been 
transferred to Company S for investment and that MAFS  fee (£11,568.92) had been  paid.
Company H wrote to Mr F on 14 September 2015 saying it was processing his request to 
open an account with it for £840,000 for investment in CFDs. It said it had noted from the 
account opening form that he had no experience  with CFDs  but he did have derivatives 
experience which hed traded without advice. Because of this it said it deemed CFDs 
suitable for him. It asked Mr F to confirm  its understanding was correct. As far as Im aware 
Mr F didnt  reply to Company H to correct any of what it had said.  
On 17 September  2015 the SIPP provider emailed  MAFS advising that an account with 
Company H had been set up for Mr F. It asked for confirmation of the amount he wanted to 
be sent to Company H for investment. It confirmed the SIPP  cash balance was £764,577.05. 
The introducer later emailed MAFS asking it to email the SIPP provider instructing it to 
transfer £736,500 from Mr Fs SIPP to Company  H. The SIPP  provider emailed MAFS on 1 
October 2015 confirming  that sum had been transferred to Company H (on 28 September  
2015) and that Mr Fs remaining  cash balance was £27,987. 
On 28 January 2016 Mr F (having met with the introducer the previous day) emailed him to 
confirm his interest in starting an investment account with another DFM Ill call Company B. 
Mr F emailed the introducer  on 9 March 2016 expressing concern about a loss of around  
£60,000 on his original investment with Company H. Mr F said the loss seemed high for a 
supposedly low risk investment. And MAFS emailed the SIPP provider on 23 March 2016 
asking for Mr Fs Company H account to be closed. 
On 6 April 2016  the introducer emailed MAFS. He said he was aware  Mr Fs Company H 
account had been closed  and Mr Fs funds received and asking MAFS to instruct  the SIPP 
Ref: DRN72675013provider to send  £660,000  of the returned  funds to Company B. The SIPP  provider emailed 
MAFS the next day confirming it had received the funds from Company  H and asking 
whether MAFS wanted this money  to be sent to Company  B for investment and if so, how 
much. MAFS replied the same day, confirming £660,000 should  be transferred to Company  
B.
On 8 April 2016  MAFS confirmed with Company B that Mr Fs risk profile  was medium. On 
12 April 2016, £660,000 was transferred from Mr Fs SIPP  to Company B where it was 
invested, as I understand it, in high risk funds of limited liquidity. 
Mr F emailed the introducer  on 9 May 2016  asking for news on his investments with 
Company B. The introducer replied to Mr F, copying MAFS adviser in, saying Yes all good  
at [Company B] and offering a time to catch up. 
Mr F emailed the introducer  on 16 June  2016  about  losses on his Company B investments. 
On 4 August  2016 the SIPP provider  sent Mr F information about his SIPP. Mr F replied the 
same day, copying  in MAFS.  He said he was concerned about the investment advice hed 
been getting from MAFS. His fund value had gone  down from £1,156,800 to £1,089,197  in 
under a year. He asked  that no further fees be paid to MAFS without his consent while he 
reconsidered his SIPP investment strategy.  
Following Mr Fs email,  MAFS  adviser  emailed  the introducer saying:
Hes not happy and blaming us for the performance of his fund. DFM  performance  is out 
with [sic] our control, but bottom line, it was recommended by us. I have written to him () 
and said we hoped to meet up on our next visit.
The introducer replied  later that day saying:
Ive spoken with [Mr F] just now and hes going to be fine any loss he had was while  
invested at [Company H] and he moved that himself before it got worse. After initial costs 
and charges he is down approx. 3% hardly  a plummet () we can meet  later in the month.
On 5 August  2016 Mr F emailed MAFS. He said, as hed already  confirmed  to the introducer, 
he was extremely unhappy with how his pension investments had been handled and was 
concerned about  Company Hs investment strategy. He highlighted investment losses of 
£63,755 in just over seven months.  He said hed been assured  Company B would be a safer  
and more reliable  DFM.  Company Bs first proposed investment  was bought for £82,147  and 
subsequently sold for £37,358, a loss of £44,789.  He said the only good news  was that his 
investments with Company S seemed  to be doing well. Mr B asked that all his money be 
kept in his SIPP and not reinvested until hed decided what to do next.
MAFS adviser forwarded Mr Fs email to the introducer the same day saying:
This is the problem.  Im getting  the blame for the performance of a DFM over which  I have 
no control. If I put an investment portfolio together and it bombs, then fair cop, the buck  
stops with me. Here, I get a very unhappy  client and I gave [sic] had no input as to how 
funds invested.  It makes me look very bad ()
The introducer replied  the same day:
Ref: DRN72675014I agree with what you are saying and fully understand () we can meet up and discuss 
when Im back week beginning  15th. With regards to [Mr F] when I spoke to him yesterday he 
was upbeat and thought he was ok, cant help but feel there is another  agenda  here () the 
facts are when initial fee is removed he is down  under 4% which  is not good but also not 
catastrophic in a year of turmoil ().
Mr F chased MAFS for a response on 30 August 2016. He also asked for a £5,445.95 fee 
paid to MAFS in error by the SIPP provider on 16 August  2016  to be returned. He reiterated 
that hed asked the SIPP provider to freeze  all outgoing payments from his SIPP.  
MAFS replied  to Mr F on the same  day saying, amongst other  things, that where there  was a 
DFM, the day to day running of the portfolio was delegated to the DFM.  The adviser said 
hed noted from the SIPP providers website  that Mr Fs fund value was currently 
£1,094,260. He offered to review Mr Fs overall investment strategy.
Mr F asked  that his concerns be treated as a formal  complaint. But, after speaking  to MAFS 
adviser, Mr F agreed  to withdraw his complaint until hed met with the adviser  and the 
introducer for his annual  review. 
Mr F and his wife, MAFS adviser and the introducer  met on 14 September  2016.  The 
meeting notes record, amongst other things:  
MAFS had recommended  that Mr F transfer  and consolidate his pensions  in a SIPP  
and use Company H as a DFM;  Company H was to analyse Mr Fs risk profile 
questionnaire and recommend a suitable bespoke portfolio for him
Company H met with Mr F and completed a risk assessment  and an investment 
strategy mandate was agreed
Mr F later became  unhappy with how Company H was managing his portfolio, so he 
moved to Company  B. Shortly  afterwards  he also became unhappy with Company B 
and he moved his portfolio to Company S
a new risk profile questionnaire  had been  carried out by it and an investment strategy  
would be put together  with six monthly  valuations as well as a minimum yearly  review
MAFS recommendation was to invest £500,000  in a range of collectives- Unit Trusts 
and OEICS with a view to putting together  an asset allocated diversified Portfolio
because of losses incurred with Company H, MAFS  agreed,  as a goodwill gesture, to 
waive future initial fees until further notice
MAFS was also in contact with Company H on Mr Fs behalf to see if it had deviated 
from the agreed investment mandate
On 15 September  2016 MAFS emailed the SIPP provider  instructing it to suspend all 
ongoing adviser fees until further notice. MAFS also emailed Company B asking for access 
to Mr Fs account. The adviser  said he wanted  to be sure investments were in keeping with 
Mr Fs ATR which, Mr F requested, should be no more  than 4 out of 10.  
The following  day MAFS submitted a complaint on Mr Fs behalf to Company H. MAFS also 
submitted a complaint on Mr Fs behalf  to Company B. MAFS also wrote to Mr F and 
confirmed the details of their meeting  two days earlier. 
Company H responded to the complaint  on 21 October 2016. In summary it said Mr F had 
requested investment in a CFD managed  account. Because  CFDs  involved a higher degree 
of risk, Mr F was given  the necessary warnings.  Hed advised  hed invested  in derivatives 
Ref: DRN72675015before. Company H hadnt given him any investment advice. It said it was satisfied his 
portfolio was managed in accordance with his investment objectives and risk profile.
MAFS adviser met with Mr and Mrs F on 27 October 2016. He wrote to them the same day 
outlining their discussions. Amongst other things he said he hadnt had a response from 
Company H (although as Ive said above it had replied on 21 October 2016). Hed received 
an acknowledgement from Company B (on 24 October 2016). Hed return Company S 
Advanced Questionnaire to it to ensure, going  forwards, Mr Fs investments were in keeping  
with his ATR  likely to be Conservative  or Defensive. 
On 31 October 2016 MAFS sent Company S Mr Fs completed Advanced Questionnaire. 
MAFS chased Company  B on 30 November 2016  for a response and asked for copies of 
some documents. Company B replied on 7 December 2016 saying information would be 
provided by 16 December 2016.  
The adviser was dismissed from MAFS on 21 December 2016.  
On 25 April 2017 MAFS raised formal complaints against Company S on behalf  of 23 of its 
clients, including Mr F, whod  been  invested in the OWG Bond. In summary MAFS said: 
it had been  unaware its clients had been invested in OWG Bonds. Thered  been  a 
lack of due diligence by Company S in facilitating  these transactions, especially when 
OWG was the holding company  for Company S and owned 100% of its shares 
MAFS clients had suffered significant  losses  as the OWG Bond was unsecured,  low 
grade, high risk, illiquid investments with no secondary market
Company S should have questioned the execution only letters to satisfy  itself the 
instructions were valid, the clients had the required level of sophistication for such 
investments and werent being unduly influenced by a third party. Some  clients  
(including Mr F) had confirmed the signatures on the letters werent theirs and that 
conversations about the OWG Bond had been  with the introducer, not MAFS. MAFS 
believed the introducer  fraudulently produced and signed the execution only letters 
the introducer wasnt regulated and MAFS questioned whether hed received 
commission for the investments he sourced for Company  S
MAFS wrote  to Company  B on 27 April 2017  claiming compensation of £87,280.13 for Mr Fs 
losses. The following day MAFS  also wrote to Company H seeking compensation of 
£124,849.55 for Mr F.  
In June 2017 MAFS referred Mr Fs complaints against the DFMs  he used and his SIPP 
provider to our service. 
On 13 October 2017 MAFS emailed  Mr F with an update on the complaint to Company S, 
which had gone  into administration.  MAFS said it was continuing to press the administrators 
for information including details of Company Ss professional indemnity (PI) insurance. 
My understanding is that Company H and Company B also went  into administration. And 
that Mr F has made claims  against  Company H and Company B via the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Mr F later referred his complaint about MAFS to our service. It was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who issued his assessment on 27 June 2018.  In summary the adjudicator said:
Ref: DRN72675016Mr F had confirmed  he was only complaining about  the way his SIPP was invested 
and not the transfers  to a SIPP so thats  all the adjudicator had considered
the adviser had been dismissed  from MAFS. But MAFS was responsible for what he 
did (or didnt do) while he was working for MAFS
the adjudicator  hadnt seen any evidence that MAFS was aware  of the investment 
strategy Company  H was pursuing.  So he didnt think MAFS could reasonably  be 
held responsible for Mr Fs losses with Company H
Mr Fs investments through Company B were made on advice from the introducer.  
But MAFS was aware  of that and had instructed the SIPP provider to send money to 
Company B. But MAFS did tell Company  B that Mr Fs ATR was medium, which was 
reasonably accurate.  It didnt  seem MAFS was ever made aware of the actual 
investment being made for Mr F by Company B. So MAFS wasnt responsible for Mr 
Fs losses  with Company B
MAFS had failed  to advise Mr F against  investing in the OWG Bond with Company S. 
An adviser, if told the client has acted differently to what  had been  advised, should 
make further enquiries, especially  if they know the client  is following advice from an 
unregulated individual. If MAFS had spoken  to Mr F about  the money MAFS knew  
had been sent to Company S, MAFS would have realised  the investment wasnt 
suitable and then strongly advised Mr F against.  Hed likely have followed MAFS 
advice, despite  his relationship with the introducer
The execution only instructions sent to Company  S meant MAFS had no knowledge 
of the Company S investments. But MAFS had acknowledged it was made  aware of 
the investment  on 13 August 2015. The first tranche of Mr Fs investment in the OWG  
bond was made the next day. There wouldnt have been enough time to advise  Mr F 
against or stop that. But MAFS could have  prevented the further  investments (on 21 
August 2015 and 1 September 2015  of £325,000  in total). 
In response, MAFS main  points were:
it accepted that its adviser,  when he became aware of Mr Fs first investment with 
Company S (on 13 August 2015), shouldve questioned it and advised Mr F against  
investing in the OWG Bond. Its possible Mr F wouldve stopped  investing  with 
Company S and so his losses would have  been  reduced
but that didnt fully reflect the advice from the introducer or his influence over Mr F. 
MAFS control over Mr Fs investment decision was inherently restricted, as the 
execution only letters demonstrated.  The possibility  that Mr F would have ignored 
advice from MAFS hadnt been  addressed
Mr Fs losses  were a direct result of the introducers advice and not MAFS failure to 
advise against.  Thered been  orchestrated deception by the introducer
MAFS didnt agree it couldve prevented the transfer to Company  S on 21 August 
2015. It couldnt be assumed, if MAFS had acted on the email of 13 August 2015,  
thered have been enough time for Mr F to stop the transfer  But MAFS accepted it 
couldve halted the third transfer to Company S of £80,000 made on 27 August 2015
Mr Fs losses were  also caused by the SIPP providers  failure  to protect  its clients  
interests by not reviewing  the investments recommended by DFMs and making sure 
they were on its permitted investments list. The SIPP provider was liable for Mr Fs 
losses of £325,000. A complaint had been  raised on Mr Fs behalf accordingly
Ref: DRN72675017The adjudicator considered what MAFS said but he didnt change his view. He asked MAFS 
to confirm if it was offering  Mr F £80,000  compensation.  MAFS said it wasnt   it said the 
whole situation,  including  the SIPP providers role, should be considered at the same time. 
Mr F agreed  with the adjudicators assessment. He added that, had MAFS advised him 
against the OWG Bonds, he may not have  invested  in them  at all. He said MAFS was 
downplaying its advisers role. And, if MAFS had taken control and made sure investments 
were made as described in the original  Retirement Planning Report, the situation wouldnt 
have arisen at all. 
Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently minded to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of all the arguments  made by both parties, Ive limited  my response  to the issues 
I consider to be central to this complaint. 
Scope of my decision 
Mr F has confirmed this complaint centres on investments made  following the setting up of 
his SIPP  and not the original advice he received to switch his pensions to a SIPP.  Because  
of this (and as I havent seen anything to suggest a SIPP wasnt  suitable  for Mr F) my 
decision will only deal with the investment arrangements made using Mr Fs SIPP funds.
In addition to his complaint about MAFS, Mr F also has complaints with this service about  
the SIPP provider  and the company he considers responsible for the introducers actions.  
To avoid  any doubt, I should stress  that my decision here solely  concerns Mr Fs complaint 
about MAFS acts or omissions and the extent to which these have caused or contributed to 
Mr Fs financial loss, if at all. 
But I have also taken  into account the interaction  between MAFS and the introducer and the 
introducer and Mr F.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr F was to some extent influenced by the introducer or 
that he was involved  to some degree  in the initial switch  process  and subsequent investment 
transactions. Three DFMs were involved too but Im only looking at what  MAFS did (or didnt 
do) and I make no findings  about  the DFMs. As Mr Fs regulated  financial adviser, MAFS 
had the significant and overriding responsibility to Mr F to provide suitable  advice  and act in 
his best interests.  
MAFS role and responsibilities
MAFS recommendation was that Mr F switch his pensions to a SIPP and use Company H 
as the DFM to manage his investment  portfolio. The retirement planning report  said that 
Company H would then analyse the results of Mr Fs risk profile  questionnaire and 
recommend a suitable bespoke portfolio.
Ref: DRN72675018Its my view that MAFS recommendation  regarding Mr Fs pension switches to a SIPP, had 
to take into account  and consider the suitability of the investments intended  to be held within 
Mr Fs SIPP.  In  providing the advice  it gave MAFS was subject to the regulators Conduct  of 
Business Rules. And at the time of the advice I think the regulator had made its view clear 
that it considered  in order to suitably advise on pension switching to a SIPP,  a firm needed 
to consider the suitability of the underlying  investments to be held in it.
Indeed, I note that on Mr Fs L&C SIPP application form under Professional Adviser  
Details, MAFS  adviser signed  to confirm the following type of advice had been provided:
Advice given at point  of sale to client that takes account of the intended underlying 
investment strategy
Here the intention was for another regulated firm (i.e. Company H) to select the underlying 
investments.  But I dont think that meant  MAFS responsibilities ended once the SIPP had 
been set up, the funds transferred and the money  was then available  for investment. MAFS 
remained Mr Fs financial adviser and so had overall responsibility and oversight in ensuring 
that Company  H was broadly implementing  the sort of approach that would reasonably be 
expected for Mr Fs attitude to risk, notwithstanding that it was another  regulated  firm. 
Im mindful that in addition to the initial advice MAFS provided Mr F with which  was for a fee 
(1% of the transfer value- £11,206), it was also agreed, for a fee of 0.5% of Mr Fs SIPP fund 
value each year, that MAFS would provide ongoing advice and annual reviews  to Mr F. 
Based on this I think there was a reasonable expectation (and agreement)  that in addition to 
the initial advice  provided, MAFS would also go on to monitor Mr Fs SIPP, which  would/had 
to include consideration of where  Mr Fs funds were  invested and the overall suitability of 
investments given what had been  established  regarding Mr Fs objectives  and ATR. In other  
words, whether the DFM  was broadly fulfilling the role it was intended  to play in the 
management of Mr Fs pension.
For simplicity Ill consider MAFS responsibility  and any potential arising liability for Mr Fs 
losses by referring to each of the DFMs used to invest Mr Fs SIPP  funds in turn. But before I 
do this, I think its important  for me to determine  whether MAFS original assessment of Mr 
Fs ATR was correct.
Mr Fs ATR and objectives
MAFS Retirement Planning Report said Mr Fs ATR had been established using a Risk 
Profiling Questionnaire Mr F completed. MAFS  concluded  that the results of the 
questionnaire indicated Mr Fs ATR was balanced or medium,  a 5 out of 10 rating where  1 
is the lowest risk and 10 is the highest.  And its Risk Profile described  a medium investor  as:
You are willing to place  a reasonable emphasis on growth investments and are aware  that 
these are liable to fluctuate  in value. You can tolerate some  fluctuations  and volatility. But 
you tend to stay away  from the possibility of dramatic or frequent  changes.
Based on Mr Fs circumstances at the time Im satisfied MAFS assessment of Mr Fs ATR 
was reasonably accurate. 
Considering MAFS potential liability  for Mr Fs losses
Ref: DRN72675019To determine MAFS liability for Mr Fs losses, Ive thought about what happened in light of 
the following:
Whether MAFS advised Mr F to use a DFM through which  Mr Fs money  was 
invested
Where MAFS  did advise Mr F to use a DFM, whether it fulfilled its duty of care to Mr 
F as his adviser
Where MAFS  didnt  advise Mr F to use a DFM, whether  it was aware of investments 
being made which fell outside of its recommendation
If MAFS was aware of investments that fell outside its recommendation, whether 
MAFS took any investigative, preventative or corrective action (as his ongoing 
adviser) to help mitigate Mr Fs financial losses
Whether MAFS facilitated, enabled  or contributed in any way to Mr Fs money  being  
invested in ways it shouldnt have been  
Whether MAFS fulfilled its responsibility as Mr Fs adviser,  to act in his best interests  
and treat him fairly and reasonably
Where I conclude  that MAFS actions directly  led or contributed to investments going  ahead 
which shouldnt have,  Ive also considered  whether any acts or omissions by another 
contributing factor or party  mean it wouldnt be fair to hold MAFS responsible  for all of Mr Fs 
losses.
Investments made with Company H
MAFS advice to Mr F included the recommendation he use Company H as a DFM.  Mr F 
followed this advice. Mr Fs fund was substantial and I dont think recommending  that he use 
a DFM was inappropriate. MAFS understood Company H would  recommend  a bespoke 
portfolio for Mr F. MAFS had assessed (correctly in my view) Mr Fs ATR as medium.  
However, £736,500  was invested in CFDs,  which were  very high risk and represented a lack 
of diversification for a very significant  part of Mr Fs SIPP  fund.  
First, I cant see that MAFS  gave  any instructions  to Company H. In the circumstances I 
wouldve expected  MAFS to have provided Company H with an investment mandate  or at 
the very least a brief with details of Mr Fs ATR. Or alternatively, to check how Company H 
broadly proposed to invest Mr Fs money  as a result of its own assessment. Theres nothing  
to indicate MAFS did either of these things, and I think this was a failing on MAFS part. But 
Im also mindful of the wider circumstances surrounding the investment of Mr Fs SIPP  funds 
with Company H.
Ive looked at Mr Fs Company H Account Opening Form and can see that he signed it on 6 
August 2015.  Ive set out above what the form said. My understanding is that although Mr F 
signed this form,  hes since  said it was blank when he signed it and that its suggested the 
introducer completed the rest of the form and forwarded it to Company H. 
The form was completed to show Mr F wanted  to invest  £840,000 with Company H. Mr Fs 
risk tolerance was confirmed to be between Medium and High. The form also confirmed 
Mr F had experience investing in Derivatives  and that, although aware  of the risks, he was 
happy to invest  in CFDs. 
In signing the form Mr F confirmed the contents  of it were correct, that he understood the 
risks involved with CFD trading and that no advice  had been given by Company H. 
Ref: DRN726750110Its clear to me investing  in CFDs wasnt appropriate  given Mr Fs ATR. MAFS has also 
agreed that Mr F investing in CFDs was unsuitable.  I havent seen anything to suggest 
MAFS had any involvement  in Mr Fs Company H application to invest in CFDs.  Although 
MAFS advised Mr F to use Company H in the first place, Im mindful that it did originally say 
Company H would recommend a bespoke investment portfolio based on Mr Fs risk profile. 
Its clear this didnt happen  and based  on the contents of the form and the fact Mr F was 
supposedly presented with a blank form by the introducer to sign, I think  these factors ought 
to have indicated  to Mr F that something  was amiss. 
I appreciate Mr F trusting the introducer  may have led him to sign the blank Company H 
form. But I still think Mr F had responsibility  to exercise due care with what he signed,  while  
being mindful of what his regulated adviser,  MAFS, had said was supposed to happen with 
Company H. If anything happening was at odds with what  Mr F expected  or what MAFS had 
said he ought to expect regarding the Company  H investment, I think  its reasonable to have 
expected him to query this directly  with MAFS. Theres  nothing  to suggest this happened.  
Ive also seen that after Mr Fs Company H application form was submitted, Company H did 
email Mr F, acknowledging receipt of the form and asking him to confirm  the veracity  of its 
contents. Mr F was asked to confirm  he was willing to invest in high risk products like CFDs, 
despite no experience in these before. It also noted  hed said in his form that he had 
derivatives experience and traded these without advice. Company H said that on this basis  it 
considered CFDs suitable for Mr F. But asked  him to email  it back to confirm  the accuracy  of 
what it had said. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr F responded to Company H. 
Based on Company Hs email to Mr F after his application  form was submitted, I think Mr F 
had the opportunity to identify any incorrect information that had allegedly been added to the 
form by the introducer after he signed  it and to make a decision about halting his investment 
with Company H in CFDs.  Mr F couldve also contacted MAFS to query  the matter if he was 
unsure. As this didnt happen  Mr Fs investment  in CFDs with Company H went  ahead. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think Mr Fs actions (or inaction) here 
automatically absolves MAFS of any responsibility  for Mr Fs losses as a result  of 
investments made via Company  H. Ill explain  why.
In addition to Mr Fs actions, Ive also considered whether, despite not appearing to be 
involved in the Company  H application, MAFS had any awareness  of Mr Fs funds being  
invested in CFDs with Company H and what,  if any, action it took following on from this 
awareness. 
From what  Ive seen, the SIPP provider did confirm  with MAFS that Mr Fs Company H 
account had been set up and asked for confirmation  of how much  money  to send to it for 
investment. Following this I note the introducer emailed MAFS and asked it to instruct the 
SIPP provider to transfer £736,500 to Company H.
Its not clear why the introducer was giving  instructions to MAFS to pass  on to the SIPP  
provider. Indeed I think this was wholly inappropriate in the circumstances. The unregulated 
introducer shouldnt  have had any say or influence over where Mr Fs funds were  invested. 
And MAFS certainly shouldnt have  acted on any instruction from the introducer  regarding 
where Mr Fs money  should be sent.  This is exactly what  happened though and this wasnt 
the only time it did. Further to the introducers email, on 17 September  2015  MAFS emailed 
the SIPP provider  asking it to send £736,500 of Mr Fs SIPP funds to Company H. 
Ref: DRN726750111Rather concerningly, Ive also seen evidence to suggest the introducer was providing MAFS 
with instructions for it to pass on to the SIPP provider  regarding where other  clients  funds 
should be sent.
The fact that the introducer was making  requests  for MAFS to pass on investment 
instructions to the SIPP provider, in my view indicates it was known  the introducer had no 
authority to give such instructions and that any instructions given direct by him to the SIPP  
provider would not have been  accepted,  let alone acted on. The only way the introducers 
instructions could get through was where  MAFS facilitated  this. 
While I havent seen  anything to suggest  that, prior to the submission of Mr Fs Company H 
application, MAFS was aware Mr Fs money was to be invested  in CFDs, I do think MAFS is 
partly responsible for the fact this was able to happen at all. And I consider  that it shouldve  
been aware, when  instructing the SIPP provider to send a significant amount of Mr Fs 
money to Company H, where this money was to be invested. Especially as it was acting on 
instructions provided  by the unregulated introducer.
Ultimately, MAFS  advised Mr F to use Company H. Ive already explained why I think  MAFS 
recommendation had to include  some  awareness of where Mr Fs funds would be invested 
by Company H-particularly given the circumstances  here. Although it appears Mr F may 
have been influenced by the introducer  and that the investment in CFDs was possibly 
initiated by the introducer, the fact remains  that the investment itself wouldnt in all likelihood  
have been possible  if:
MAFS had ensured it knew what mandate Mr Fs SIPP funds  were  going to be  
invested with after it instructed the SIPP provider to send £735,500 of Mr Fs money  
to Company H. Especially  as this came off the back of the introducers instructions to 
MAFS. Had MAFS done so I think its more likely than not that it wouldve  been 
aware the investments made using Mr Fs funds werent suitable and been  able to 
take action to halt or reverse the transaction. As Mr Fs regulated adviser  Im 
persuaded that Mr F wouldve  listened  to MAFS corrective advice, over and above  
anything he may have been  told by the unregulated introducer
MAFS had provided Company H with confirmation of Mr Fs risk profile (or otherwise 
checked in on Company  Hs proposal  as to how it was going to manage the funds).  
Theres nothing to suggest this happened. And had MAFS done so its possible Mr 
Fs application to invest in CFDs  may have at least been questioned by Company  H, 
given how at odds  it was with what MAFS shouldve confirmed  Mr Fs established  
ATR was
As Ive already  said I dont believe Mr F exercised due care when he signed the blank 
Company H application form or when he didnt respond to Company Hs email asking him to 
confirm the veracity of the information in the form. Im also conscious  of the role the 
unregulated introducer played  in this transaction. Notwithstanding these things, and for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think its fair and reasonable  to hold MAFS for Mr Fs losses as 
a result of investments  made via Company  H. 
Im mindful of MAFS significant and overriding responsibility to Mr F to act in his best 
interests. Overall I think there were evident shortcomings by MAFS in its capacity as Mr Fs 
financial adviser. And as a result, Im not persuaded MAFS  exercised the reasonable skill 
Ref: DRN726750112and care required regarding the transaction that took place with some of Mr Fs SIPP  funds 
and Company H. MAFS actions enabled  the unsuitable investment to be made. Because  of 
this I consider MAFS wholly responsible for Mr Fs resulting losses. Were it not for MAFS 
acts and omissions I dont  find that Mr Fs funds wouldve  or couldve been invested as they 
were with Company  H. 
Investments made with Company B
Ive considered the investments made with some  of Mr Fs SIPP funds  through Company B. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest MAFS ever advised Mr B to use Company B as a DFM. It 
appears that Mr Fs investment with Company B came about  as a result  of his dealings  with 
the unregulated  introducer. Indeed,  the first mention of Company B in the available evidence 
comes in January  2016 in an email from Mr F to the introducer, in which Mr F says:
Im definitely interested  in starting  an account with [Company B]- especially their Strategic 
Income Model Portfolio.
Within this email Mr F confirms he met with the introducer the previous day and as well as 
discussing Mr F investing with Company B, they also discussed Company Hs investment 
strategy and his SIPP.
The next mention of Company B comes several months after this email on 6 April 2016, after 
a request is made for Mr Fs Company H account to be closed and around £672,000 of Mr 
Fs original £735,500 investment is returned to his SIPP.  At this point the introducer emails 
MAFS saying £660,000 of the funds returned  to Mr Fs SIPP should be sent to Company  B. 
The introducer asks MAFS to pass on this instruction to the SIPP provider. Further to this 
MAFS emails  the SIPP provider on 7 April 2016 requesting  exactly what the introducer 
asked it to tell the SIPP  provider to do with Mr Fs money. 
Again, I dont think it was at all appropriate for MAFS  to act on instructions provided by the 
introducer regarding  where Mr Fs SIPP funds should be sent. MAFS was Mr Fs adviser,  not 
the introducer, so if anyone  was considering  a new destination for Mr Fs funds it shouldve 
been MAFS, not the introducer via MAFS. The fact that MAFS never rejected the 
introducers request  or even questioned  it (especially as the DFM mentioned wasnt  the one 
MAFS had recommended) before passing  it on to the SIPP provider suggests to me that 
MAFS was working comfortably and closely with the introducer.  Based on MAFS actions (or 
lack thereof) I think its possible MAFS had either  agreed with the introducer that Mr Fs 
funds would be transferred to Company  B (so it was happy passing the introducers request 
onto the SIPP provider).  Or that MAFS thought (incorrectly, in my view)  that it could allow an 
unregulated introducer to direct the investment of Mr Fs funds. 
As Mr Fs financial  adviser MAFS had a responsibility to act in Mr Fs best interests. I dont 
think it did this when  it helped facilitate the transfer of Mr Fs funds to Company B-especially 
not on the introducers instruction. I think the fact that it did was a significant error. MAFS 
shouldve rejected the introducers  instruction and, if it believed  the investment in Company 
B was appropriate after investigating  how the funds would broadly be invested,  explained  
this to Mr F in its own terms. And by not doing so, it failed to act fairly or reasonably towards 
Mr F.
I also think MAFS had a responsibility to query the intended investment with Company B 
with Mr F and check where Mr Fs funds  were intended to be invested with Company B. And 
upon recognising how unsuitable this investment was, it shouldve raised this with Mr F. Had 
Ref: DRN726750113MAFS done so I think it wouldve become apparent  that the introducer  was acting well 
beyond his remit (albeit MAFS seemed to be allowing him to do so). At this point MAFS 
couldve reminded Mr F that the introducer  couldnt  and shouldnt  be advising him on where 
to invest his funds  and alerted him to the inappropriateness of the proposed investment with 
Company B. The fact that MAFS took no action at all and instead  helped the transaction  go 
ahead, suggests as I said before that it may have been aware of how Mr Fs funds were to 
be invested by Company  B. 
As Mr Fs adviser,  MAFS shouldve been aware  of what  mandate  Company B was applying 
to its investment of Mr Fs money. MAFS also shouldnt have allowed the transaction to go 
ahead until it considered this was broadly in line with Mr Fs ATR  which evidently it was 
not. And at the very least, upon  receiving the introducers  request MAFS shouldve  spoken to 
Mr F and outlined  the obvious  risks and concerns regarding the transaction. I think  that had 
MAFS warned Mr F against investing via Company B, its most likely Mr F wouldve listened  
to MAFS and not gone ahead with the investment, given that he had already incurred earlier  
losses as a result of the introducers  involvement. Especially if MAFS had made  it clear  the 
introducer shouldnt  have been advising him at all on where to invest his funds and that the 
proposed investment was unsuitable. Given what happened with Mr Fs investments via 
Company S nine months  earlier,  I think MAFS was already (or ought  reasonably  to have  
been) aware of the potential issues with the introducer. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I note that at the time MAFS passed on the 
introducers instructions  to the SIPP  provider  that £660,000 of Mr Fs funds should be sent to 
Company B, it also told Company B that Mr Fs Risk Profile was Medium. But as Ive 
already said, while  I think  this was a reasonable assessment of Mr Fs ATR, I consider that 
MAFS also had a responsibility to follow up on the transaction and check  that Company Bs 
investment proposal  for Mr Fs funds broadly lined up with what was known  about  his ATR. 
Had MAFS done so at the time,  I believe it wouldve realised that Mr Fs portfolio with 
Company B was, as it now says, totally  unsuitable.
MAFS actions enabled the unsuitable investment  to be made. Because  of this I consider 
MAFS wholly responsible  for Mr Fs resulting  losses. Were  it not for MAFS acts and 
omissions I dont find that Mr Fs funds  wouldve or couldve  been  invested as they were with 
Company B. I say this because: 
although it doesnt appear  that MAFS ever advised Mr F to use Company B as a 
DFM, upon receiving  the introducers instruction about where to send Mr Fs funds 
and becoming  aware the introducer was effectively advising Mr F to use Company  B, 
MAFS ought to have contacted Mr F and alerted him to the issues with this 
transaction
MAFS shouldnt have  put through the introducers instruction for the SIPP provider to 
send Mr Fs funds  to Company B without  first conducting its own assessment of its 
suitability. Had MAFS not facilitated  this transaction Mr F would never  have been 
able to invest via Company  B in the unsuitable  funds he did
although the investment via Company B never  shouldve happened,  MAFS shouldve 
made a point in the first place of being  aware of where Mr Fs funds were  intended to 
be invested. Had this happened, corrective action  couldve  been taken either  to undo 
the investment  transaction  entirely or to ensure Mr Fs money was invested in assets  
commensurate with his ATR
Ref: DRN726750114based on what happened with Mr Fs investments  nine months earlier, I think it was 
foreseeable (or ought reasonably to have been) that there were potential issues  with 
the introducer. Had MAFS acted on this earlier awareness, I think  its possible the 
investments made via Company  B wouldnt have happened
My understanding is that of the £660,000  originally  invested via Company B, roughly 
£630,000 was returned. Mr F has also confirmed that in May 2019  he received £28,224.18  
from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
I recognise that it can be argued Company  Bs actions may have  also separately caused 
some of Mr Fs loss. So I have considered whether I should apportion  only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to MAFS. In the circumstances, though,  I think  it fair 
to make an award for the whole loss against  MAFS. 
As I have said, Mr Fs complaint about  Company B has been considered by the FSCS. As a 
result, I understand that Mr F is now in a position where hes received  most of his capital 
back. However, it appears he may still have lost out on investment growth. This means an 
apportionment of only part of the loss to MAFS could risk leaving Mr F out of pocket. With 
this in mind  and recognising also that Mr F wouldnt have lost out at all but for MAFS 
failings I think apportioning responsibility to MAFS for the whole of the loss represents fair 
compensation in this case. 
Investments made with Company S
Ive considered the investment of some of Mr Fs SIPP funds via Company S and whether 
MAFS is responsible for some or any of the losses Mr F sustained as a result. As was the 
case with Mr Fs Company B investment, Ive not seen anything to suggest  MAFS ever 
advised Mr F to invest funds using Company S as a DFM. 
The available evidence indicates  that even before all of Mr Fs pension  funds were switched 
to his SIPP and before an account with the DFM MAFS had recommended (Company H) 
was set up, steps had been  taken  to set up an account for Mr F with another  DFM,  which 
MAFS hadnt recommended-  Company  S.
From what  Ive seen, a letter dated 3 August 2015  and signed  by Mr F was sent to Company 
S stating  that Mr F wanted to invest £300,000 in the Optima Worldwide Group Corporate 
Bond (OWG Bond). The letter also said Mr Fs account had been set up on an execution  
only basis and that any instructions had to come from him. My understanding  is that Mr F 
has since said that he neither wrote  nor signed the letter or subsequent letters regarding his 
investment via Company S which included content very similar to the 3 August 2015  letter.  
Further to the 3 August 2015  letter, Ive seen  that MAFS was made aware of the use of 
Company S for the investment of Mr Fs funds when the SIPP  provider emailed it on 13 
August 2015 confirming  £56,395.75 of Mr Fs SIPP funds had been sent to Company S.
Upon receiving the SIPP providers 13 August 2015 email, I consider that MAFS shouldve 
immediately recognised something was wrong. It should have noticed that of the pension 
funds it had advised Mr F to switch  to a SIPP, a large proportion of these had been 
transferred to a DFM MAFS hadnt  recommended  Mr F use. Activity  in Mr Fs SIPP was 
clearly at odds with MAFS original advice.
Ref: DRN726750115In the circumstances I wouldve expected MAFS to contact the SIPP  provider to query the 
Company S transaction and establish how it had come about (especially given that only 
MAFS and Company H were meant to be able to give instructions regarding Mr Fs SIPP  
funds). I wouldve also expected MAFS to have contacted Mr F to establish what  if anything  
he knew about the transaction. Had MAFS, as Mr Fs adviser,  taken this action, I think its 
likely MAFS  wouldve discovered Mr F was possibly acting under the influence of the 
introducer, and that he may have written the Execution Only letters and that the investment 
Mr F was intending to proceed with (an illiquid corporate bond) wasnt suitable  or in line with 
his balanced ATR. Indeed MAFS has said, MAFS  would  have  not recommended  the 
[Company S] investments  as they were high risk and therefore  totally  unsuitable for [Mr Fs] 
ATR ().  
Despite the influence of the unregulated  introducer  over Mr F I consider it more  likely than 
not that, had MAFS warned Mr F against any investment via Company S, Mr F wouldve 
listened and attempts couldve been  made to reverse the initial  transfer to Company S. I also 
doubt that Mr F wouldve agreed  to the transfer  of any more  of his funds  for investment in 
this way with Company  S.
I havent seen  anything to suggest MAFS took any action following 13 August 2015 when it 
was notified of the first Company S transaction.  And as a result,  not only was Mr Fs first 
tranche of money  transferred  to Company S for investment (and never  reversed), but a 
second tranche  of £243,740.25 was transferred  on 18 August 2015 and a third transferred 
on 28 August 2015 for £80,000.  Regarding the third transfer, MAFS, in its submissions to 
this service has said, it () accepts the adjudicators  decision that MAFS could have halted 
the third transfer  to [Provider S] of £80,000 () as MAFS accepts that AMD did have 
enough time to advise  [Mr F] against the [Company S] investments before this time.
The SIPP provider notified  MAFS  on 21 August 2015 of the 18 August 2015  transfer  to 
Company S for £243,740.25. A follow up email with the same information  was sent to MAFS 
again on 25 August  2015. And on 28 August 2015  the SIPP provider emailed MAFS to 
confirm £80,000  of Mr Fs funds had been sent to Company S for investment.
MAFS took no action  following any of the SIPP providers emails.  Again, for the reasons Ive 
already explained I think  it should  have.
Im mindful that the initial tranche (£56,395.75)  of Mr Fs money  transferred to Company S 
was invested on 14 August  2015-  one day after the SIPP providers email to MAFS. I dont  
think this was enough time for MAFS to have been able to advise Mr F against  this 
investment and prevented it. But I do think MAFS couldve reasonably helped with attempts  
to reverse the transaction. Although I cant say with any certainty that the reversal of this 
transaction wouldve been successful.  
I do however think that based on the information  MAFS received from the SIPP provider, it 
couldve halted the transfer of Mr Fs money  and subsequent investments made on 18 
August 2015 and 28 August 2015. Between 13 August 2015 and 18 August 2015 MAFS had 
enough time to contact  Mr F and the SIPP  provider,  enquire about the 13 August 2015  
transfer and advise Mr F against investing  any further via Company S. 
Overall I find that MAFS couldve and shouldve prevented the 18 August 2015 and 28 
August 2015 transfers of Mr Fs money  to Company S. And because MAFS took no action  
based on its awareness of the Company S transactions, I consider it responsible  for the 
losses Mr F suffered as a result of these transactions going ahead.
Ref: DRN726750116I note that in its submissions to this service, regarding the Company S transactions,  MAFS 
seems to accept its adviser  failed  to act as it shouldve  in the circumstances. Indeed,  it says:
MAFS procedures  are to confirm to clients that its investment recommendations have been 
actioned completely and funds transferred. In [Mr Fs] case, such  assurances  could  not have 
been given because of the diversion of funds to [Company S]. MAFS questions  why AMD 
did not query this or document an explanation for the diversion  of funds to [Company S] () 
AMD should have  questioned the initial transfer  to [Company S] on 13 August 2015 ()
MAFS acknowledges that in light of the information AMD had and due to his knowledge that 
the first transfer had taken place to [Company S], he should have investigated the reason for 
the transfer and did not. Accordingly, it is MAFS view that had AMD investigated  the first 
transfer to [Company S], the subsequent transfer to [Company  S] could  have been  halted 
()
MAFS goes on to say:
Whilst MAFS  acknowledges that AMD had knowledge that the initial  diversion to [Company 
S] took place and therefore should have undertaken an investigation  of this diversion, MAFS 
at no stage advised [Mr F} to invest in [Company S] and did not advise [Mr F] to transfer 
funds to [Company  S] () The involvement of MAFS  () was limited  to knowledge that the 
transfers had taken place () MAFS was inhibited in taking any action  to prevent the 
transfers by the Execution Only letters () Losses  attributable to the [Company S] 
investments have not been caused by MAFS ()
Ive already acknowledged MAFS didnt  appear to provide Mr F with any advice to invest via 
Company S. But I dont  think that it therefore follows that MAFS has no further responsibility 
for the transaction.  Although MAFS didnt advise  Mr F to use Company S it was clearly 
aware of the large transfers  of Mr Fs funds to this company. MAFS had an obligation to at 
the very least query these, especially as they were at odds with the original advice it 
provided to Mr F. MAFS inaction  regarding  the Company S transactions  despite its 
awareness of them  wasnt reasonable. And were  it not for this inaction I dont think  the 18 
August 2015 and 28 August 2015 transfers wouldve happened. It follows therefore that I find 
MAFS responsible for the losses Mr F suffered as a result of these investments going 
through. 
I dont accept MAFS argument that the Execution  Only letters Mr F signed prevented it 
from taking any action  regarding the Company S transactions. I say this because, as Mr Fs 
listed adviser on his SIPP,  MAFS had authority to liaise  with the SIPP  provider regarding Mr 
Fs SIPP and where appropriate  provide  instructions. Despite Mr Fs allegedly fraudulent  
execution only letters, MAFS couldve and shouldve contacted  Mr F about the Company S 
transaction. Following  this MAFS couldve contacted  the SIPP provider to explain the 
situation and if necessary,  couldve  also arranged  for Mr F to confirm  he wanted execution  
only letters  to be ignored. Further  to this necessary action to prevent the18 August 2015 and 
28 August 2015  transfers going ahead couldve been taken.  By taking no action following the 
SIPP providers emails  about the Company S transactions MAFS failed to act in Mr Fs best 
interests as his adviser.
MAFS relationship  with the unregulated introducer
Ref: DRN726750117Finally, and as to the role of the introducer,  in its submissions to this service  MAFS has said 
it was the victim of an elaborate deception  by the unregulated introducer. It says the 
introducer deceived [Mr F] and MAFS in holding himself out as a professional an 
experienced financial advisor.  [the introducer]  is not regulated () The losses  which  [Mr F] 
has incurred are a direct  result of the advice given  to [Mr F] from [the introducer]. MAFS did 
not endorse, nor would MAFS have endorsed, the advice  given  to [Mr F] by [the introducer.
Based on what Ive seen  I think its possible MAFS wasnt  fully aware  of all of the 
introducers actions or his interactions  with Mr F. But the available  evidence  shows  MAFS 
was, on several occasions, clearly  conscious  that certain things were wrong or amiss 
regarding Mr Fs SIPP  investments. I havent  seen anything to suggest  MAFS acted  
reasonably in light of this awareness and as such I do consider MAFS responsible,  given its 
position as Mr Fs regulated adviser,  for some of the losses Mr F incurred as a result.
The introducer was unregulated and MAFS has confirmed  he referred 38 clients to it. In light 
of this I think MAFS ought to have  carried out its own due diligence  regarding the introducer 
and ensured its clients  understood MAFS relationship with him, the parameters  of the 
introducer and MAFS roles and what to expect. The introducers involvement in Mr Fs case  
clearly went beyond a simple referral. In addition to attending the advice meeting MAFS had 
with Mr F, there was correspondence between MAFS  and the introducer regarding  Mr F both 
after the initial advice  and after Mr F complained and the introducer also sent emails  to 
MAFS instructing it about where Mr Fs money should be sent- instructions  which  MAFS 
acted on. I think its clear that there  was an established relationship  between  MAFS and the 
introducer and that they worked  closely together. Its this arrangement  that arguably enabled 
the introducer to act well beyond what was appropriate given his position  as an unregulated  
introducer.
I think MAFS also caused avoidable confusion regarding the introducers role and note that 
in MAFS Retirement Planning Report  it referred  to the introducer  as the introducing IFA. At 
best this was incorrect, at worst I think it was misleading and couldve given  Mr F the 
incorrect understanding the introducer was able provide  advice. 
MAFS working so closely with the introducer during and after the provision of the initial 
advice gave rise to avoidable confusion.  And I think this may have  played  a role in Mr F 
being persuaded/induced to make investments by the introducer that he wouldnt otherwise 
have done if he was clear about the introducers role.
Although I havent  seen  any evidence to show MAFS  advised Mr F to invest via Company  S 
or Company B, I think its rather telling that after Mr F raised concerns with MAFS about his 
investments, MAFS emailed the introducer and said:
[Mr Fs] not happy and blaming us for the performance  of his fund. DFM performance is out 
with our control, but bottom line, it was recommended by us () 
Although not clear  what DFM MAFS is referring  to here, the implication of what  is said here 
supports the position that it was working with and providing recommendations to Mr F in 
conjunction with the unregulated introducer.  This shouldnt have been happening and in my 
view demonstrates  one of a number of ways in which MAFS fell short in its responsibility as 
Mr Fs adviser.  MAFS appears  to acknowledge this when it says:
MAFS acknowledges that () MAFS had a role in the investment advice for [Mr F] and had 
knowledge after the event of further investment alterations agreed  between [Mr F] and [the 
Ref: DRN726750118introducer]. MAFS agrees  his actions in this case did not meet the professional standards 
that MAFS set for its independent financial advisors,  nor did he follow accepted  MAFS 
processes ()
The fact remains however that MAFS was the regulated adviser and irrespective  of the 
introducers actions, MAFS was responsible for the advice given to Mr F as well as any acts 
or omissions  in its ongoing oversight of the SIPP  (from which  it was taking a fee) that led to 
Mr F suffering financial losses. As Ive outlined above, MAFS was instrumental in some  of Mr 
Fs inappropriate investments going ahead. I consider that some of Mr Fs losses flowing 
from this are MAFS responsibility. I dont accept  that anything  the unregulated introducer did 
was an intervening act which completely absolved MAFS of its liability for some of Mr Fs 
losses. 
Fair compensation
My aim is to, as far as possible, put Mr F back in the position  he would now be in, if MAFS, 
as his financial adviser, had met its responsibilities to act in his best interests and treat him 
fairly and reasonably. 
From what  Mr F has told us his losses are very large. Especially in respect of his 
investments with Company S. I understand he invested around  £380,000 and hes received 
nothing back so far. Mr F invested £736,500  with Company H and got back some £672,744. 
And for Company B although, as Ive said, Mr F appears to have got his capital back from 
the FSCS, he may have lost out on investment growth, for which I think he should be 
compensated. As Mr F will be aware,  if those figures are correct,  then his losses exceed the 
maximum award that I can make. Ive referred  to that further  below. 
As outlined  above,  I intend to hold MAFS responsible for 100% of Mr Fs losses  in respect of 
his investments with Company H and Company B. I intend to hold MAFS responsible  for the 
full amount of Mr Fs losses in respect of his investments made  with Company S on 18 
August 2015 and 28 August 2015. As Ive already mentioned, MAFS accepted it couldve 
halted the 28 August 2015 transaction from going  ahead.
I think Mr F would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would 
have done. However,  in line with what Ive said above, Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out 
below (for each investment made) is fair and reasonable  to compensate  Mr F for the losses  I 
believe MAFS should be responsible.
What should MAFS do?
For Mr Fs investments via Company H 
To compensate Mr F fairly, MAFS should:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and 100%  of that loss is 
payable as compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
          MAFS should  add interest as set out below.
Ref: DRN726750119If there is a loss, MAFS should  pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If MAFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr F's pension  plan,  it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MAFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much  has been  taken off. MAFS should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
For Mr Fs investments via Company B:
MAFS should carry out the same loss calculation Ive outlined  above for Mr Fs Company H 
investment. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 100%  of that 
loss is payable as compensation as Ive set out above. 
For Mr Fs investments via Company S:
MAFS should carry out the same loss calculation Ive outlined  above for Mr Fs Company H 
investment. It should only use the value of the investments made via Company S on 18 
August 2015 and 28 August 2015 to calculate  any financial loss. If the fair value  is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and 100%  of that loss is payable  as compensation as 
Ive set out above.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Investment mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of each 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of my 
final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
Ref: DRN726750120of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) or the subject 
of a dispute while a company is being  wound  up, as I understand may be the case  here.  So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. I believe this will 
apply to the OWG Bond.  Ordinarily I would say MAFS  should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider, but I dont 
think its likely this will be possible  here. So the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. 
MAFS may require that Mr F provides  an undertaking to pay MAFS any amount he may 
receive from the illiquid investments  in the future.  That undertaking must allow  for any tax 
and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. MAFS will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if MAFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude.  
My provisional decision
Ref: DRN726750121Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Martin  Aiken  
Financial Services Limited  pays the balance.
Determination and award: I intend  to uphold the complaint. I consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that Martin 
Aiken Financial Services Limited should pay Mr F the amount produced  by that calculation 
up to the maximum of £150,000 plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
If Martin Aiken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended  amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Mr F. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Martin Aiken 
Financial Services Limited  (excluding  any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.  
Martin Aiken  Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mr F that either he 
repays to Martin Aiken Financial Services Limited the net amount he may receive from the 
investment thereafter,  or if possible, transfers  the investment at that point.
Martin Aiken  Financial Services Limited should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr F in a 
clear, simple  format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I intend to recommend that Martin Aiken Financial  Services  Limited pays  Mr F the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
If Mr F accepts my determination, the money  award is binding on Martin Aiken Financial 
Services Limited. My recommendation is not binding  on Martin Aiken Financial Services 
Limited.
Its unlikely Mr F can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr F may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
I invited Mr F and MAFS to respond to my provisional decision. Mr F responded and clarified  
a few points. But in essence, he agreed  with my findings. MAFS responded and offered Mr F 
£150,000 in full and final settlement of his complaint, subject to him signing its settlement 
form and agreeing to certain conditions. Mr F rejected  MAFS offer. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
I remain of the view that Mr Fs complaint should  be upheld on the basis I outlined in my 
provisional decision.
What should MAFS do?
For Mr Fs investments via Company H 
Ref: DRN726750122To compensate Mr F fairly, MAFS should:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and 100%  of that loss is 
payable as compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
          MAFS should  add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, MAFS should  pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If MAFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr F's pension  plan,  it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MAFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much  has been  taken off. MAFS should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
For Mr Fs investments via Company B:
MAFS should carry out the same loss calculation Ive outlined  above for Mr Fs Company H 
investment. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 100%  of that 
loss is payable as compensation as Ive set out above. 
For Mr Fs investments via Company S:
MAFS should carry out the same loss calculation Ive outlined  above for Mr Fs Company H 
investment. It should only use the value of the investments made via Company S on 18 
August 2015 and 28 August 2015 to calculate  any financial loss. If the fair value  is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and 100%  of that loss is payable  as compensation as 
Ive set out above.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Investment mixedFTSE UK 
Private date of each 
investmentdate of my 
final 8% simple per 
year from 
Ref: DRN726750123Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdecision date of my 
final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) or the subject 
of a dispute while a company is being  wound  up, as I understand may be the case  here.  So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. I believe this will 
apply to the OWG Bond.  Ordinarily I would say MAFS  should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider, but I dont 
think its likely this will be possible  here. So the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. 
MAFS may require that Mr F provides  an undertaking to pay MAFS any amount he may 
receive from the illiquid investments  in the future.  That undertaking must allow  for any tax 
and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. MAFS will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if MAFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
Ref: DRN726750124measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude.  
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Martin  Aiken  
Financial Services Limited  pays the balance.
Determination and award: I intend  to uphold the complaint. I consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that Martin 
Aiken Financial Services Limited should pay Mr F the amount produced  by that calculation 
up to the maximum of £150,000 plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
If Martin Aiken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended  amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Mr F. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Martin Aiken 
Financial Services Limited  (excluding  any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.  
Martin Aiken  Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mr F that either he 
repays to Martin Aiken Financial Services Limited the net amount he may receive from the 
investment thereafter,  or if possible, transfers  the investment at that point.
Martin Aiken  Financial Services Limited should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr F in a 
clear, simple  format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I intend to recommend that Martin Aiken Financial  Services  Limited pays  Mr F the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
If Mr F accepts my determination, the money  award is binding on Martin Aiken Financial 
Services Limited. My recommendation is not binding  on Martin Aiken Financial Services 
Limited.
Its unlikely Mr F can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr F may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN726750125My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Martin Aiken Financial Services  Limited to calculate and 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7267501