K821x#15complaint
Miss H says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket,  (P2P), lent to her
irresponsibly.
background
P2P agreed six short term loans, three top ups and four refinance loans for Miss H from
June 2013 until June 2017. Each loan except Loan  4 was initially  repayable  by 12 monthly
instalments. Loan  4 was repayable by seven monthly instalments. Ive set out a summary of
the lending below.
Loan 
numberDateLoan amount
(£)Number of 
instalments  
dueHighest monthly  
repayment due
1 7/06/2013 300 12 Around £46
1a
(top up) 18/06/2013 10012 Around £61
1b
(top up) 23/06/2013 10012 Around £75
1c
(refinance) 29/06/2013 25012 Around £112
2 16/02/2014 200 12 Around £33
2a
(refinance) 8/03/2014 10012 Around £49
3 13/05/2014 200 12 Around £30
3a
(top up) 18/5/2014 10012 Around £45
3b
(refinance) 3/06/2014 40012 Around £105
4 11/11/2015 200 7 Around £48
5 5/5/2016 650 12 Around £100
6 19/6/2017 950 12 Around £140
6a
(refinance) 5/8/2017 52512 Around £208
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld  in part. She didnt uphold the
complaint about  Loans 1 to 1b but recommended that the complaint about Loans 1c
onwards be upheld.
P2P disagreed.  It said, in summary, that Miss H repaid some of her loans early and she had
a good lending and repayment history.  It also said there  were  breaks in the lending and
Miss H hadnt showed signs of financial  difficulty. P2P also said that the mere  number of
loans was insufficient to conclude that the loans  were unsustainable. P2P had also said that
starting from 1 March 2015  (which was before Miss H borrowed Loan  4 and onwards), it had
implemented an affordability assessment that was consistent with the FCA Handbook.
Miss H responded  to say that she had to take out loans with other  lenders  because of P2Ps
loans. She was reliant on the loans to make her monthly repayments. Miss H also said that a
Ref: DRN79996182more thorough check would have shown  she was in trouble. She had ended  up in a debt
management plan because of her debts.  She said that other  lenders had admitted fault.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss H 
and to P2P on 4 June  2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Miss H was struggling financially and that repaying  the loans might  have
been difficult. I noted that shed said that other  lenders had admitted fault. But Id said that 
we assessed each complaint on its own merits.
I explained that when P2P first lent to Miss H the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) and relevant guidance included its guidance  on irresponsible  lending  (ILG). From
1 April 2014 onwards the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and relevant
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The ILG and
CONC contained similar guidance  for lenders about responsible lending.
With regard to P2Ps assessments after 1 March 2015, I said that this service had addressed 
this specific point by P2P in previous decisions.  I reminded  P2P of the FCA guidance on how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly  (my emphasis) by businesses.  In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should 
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who
handle the complaint and using it in their training  and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in
the respondent.
So I said that my decision  would focus  on the specifics of Miss Hs complaint and what both 
parties had said about  that.
I explained that P2P needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Miss H could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and Miss Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that P2P should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors  included:
-the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
       any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
       meet a higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
-the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
Ref: DRN79996183       during which a customer  has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated
       refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming,
       unsustainable).
I said that there might even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that P2P was required to establish
whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And I said that it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all meant for Miss Hs complaint.
P2P did a number of checks before it lent to Miss H. It had asked her for details of her 
income. From Loan 3 it also asked about Miss Hs expenditure. Miss Hs declared  income  
was £1,100 until Loan 3 when it increased  to £1,700. P2P also checked Miss Hs 
employment and housing status.  From  the information P2P gathered,  Miss H was employed 
and paid rent.
P2P had also checked Miss Hs credit file before agreeing to the loans. P2P hadnt  provided 
us with the results  of its credit checks. I couldnt  see that wed received a copy of Miss Hs
credit report,  so I couldnt say there  were  entries on the file that shouldve  concerned  P2P.
I thought that the repayments  that Miss H needed  to make on Loans 1 to 1a were  relatively  
modest compared to the income that shed declared  to P2P. So given Miss Hs repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and her history with the 
lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for P2P to have asked her for the amount 
of information  that would have been  needed to show the lending was unsustainable.
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss H provided or the information P2P
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for P2P to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think P2P was wrong to give these two loans to 
Miss H.
Miss B took out Loan 1b five days after borrowing Loan 1a. And she took out Loan  1c six
days after borrowing Loan  1b. The amount that she borrowed on Loan 1c was significantly
higher than her two previous loans.  But the repayments that Miss H needed to make on
Loans 1b and 1c were still relatively modest compared to the income that shed declared  to
P2P. And I didnt think the repayments were  so large that it was obvious  they wouldve 
caused Miss H financial  difficulty. Id also not noted any significant  repayment difficulties 
during this period.
Ref: DRN79996184So given Miss Hs repayment amounts for Loans 1b and 1c, what  was apparent  about  her
circumstances at the time, and her history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been
proportionate for P2P to have asked  her for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show  this lending was unsustainable.
And I couldnt see there was anything in the information Miss H provided or the information  
P2P shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  
what she was saying.  So I didnt  think P2P was wrong to give Loans 1b and 1c to Miss H.
I noted that there was a gap of just over five months  between Miss H repaying Loans 1 to 1c
and asking to borrow again. Given that Loans  1 to 1c had been  repaid early and less than
three months after being taken out, I thought it would have been reasonable for P2P to have
considered that gap in lending as an indication that Miss H wasnt reliant on its loans.
I could see that the repayments that Miss H needed  to make on Loans 2 to 3a were still
relatively modest compared  to the income  that shed declared to P2P.  So given Miss Hs
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about her circumstances  at the time,  and her
history with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for P2P to have asked  
her for the amount  of information that would have been needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable.
And I couldnt see there was anything in the information Miss H provided or the information  
P2P shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  
what she was saying.  So I didnt  think P2P was wrong to give Loans 2 and 3a to Miss H.
But I thought that by the time Miss H took out Loans  3b and 4, the amount of top ups and
refinances taken by her should have suggested  to P2P that she was struggling  to manage
her finances.  So I didnt think P2P should  have given these loans to Miss H.
I noted that there was a gap of almost seven months  between Loans 3 and 4. But I didnt 
think it would  have  been reasonable for P2P to have  seen this gap as an indication that 
Miss Hs finances had moved  on from whatever  situation had required her previous loans. 
There had been  an established period of borrowing before Loan 4 which I thought  P2P 
ought to have been concerned about  irrespective of the length of pause  between Loans 3 
and 4. And the break was for substantially less time than the period Miss H owed P2P 
money for Loan  3.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of P2Ps lending history  with Miss H, with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which P2P should  reasonably have seen that further  lending
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so P2P should  have  realised that it shouldnt
have provided  any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Hs case, I thought that this point was reached by
Loan 5. I said this because:
-The amounts  Miss H was borrowing were  mostly  increasing  and P2P ought  to have
       realised it was likely  her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
-Loan 5 was provided within three months of settling Loan  4. So P2P ought  to have
       realised it was more  likely than not Miss H was having to borrow further to cover the
       hole  that repaying her previous loan had left in her finances.
-From  Loan 5 onwards, Miss H wasnt making  any real inroads  into the amount she
Ref: DRN79996185       owed  P2P.  Loan 6a was taken out around 50 months after Miss Hs first. And it was
       for a far larger amount. Miss H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,
       service a debt to P2P over an extended  period.
-The chain of lending  of around 50 months didnt reflect  the intended use of high cost
       short-term credit.
I thought that Miss H had lost out because P2P had continued to provide borrowing from 
Loan 5 onwards because:
-these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Hs indebtedness by allowing
       her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of
       time.
-the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Hs
       ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost
       loans.
-the fact that the loans were repaid didnt mean that they were repaid sustainably,
       or without causing Miss H undue difficulty.
Id considered the points P2P made in response  to the adjudicator.  P2P had said that Miss H 
had a good lending and repayment history and there was nothing  to show that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. But I thought P2P would (or ought to) have known from
previous decisions  that this service considers there  will be times when the pattern  of lending
alone is enough to indicate  that a consumer  is likely  to be in financial difficulty   or would
otherwise be harmed should relending continue. So it follows that successful  repayment  of
a loan doesnt automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
P2P had also said that the mere number of loans  was an insufficient basis to conclude that 
the loans were unsustainable.  But, I thought P2P would know from previous decisions (as 
well as whats set out on our website)  that there are cases where this service considers the 
overall lending  pattern  and not just the affordability of each  loan. I said that when  a 
consumer borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time, it was most likely  that the 
loans werent being  used  for their intended purpose  of temporary  cash  flow problems.
So I intended to uphold the complaint about Loans  3b onwards and said that P2P should put 
things right as follows.
putting things right  what P2P needs  to do
-refund  all interest and charges Miss H paid on Loan 3b onwards;
-pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
       they  were paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
-remove any adverse entries about Loans  3b and 4 from Miss Hs credit file;
-the number  of loans taken from Loan 5 onwards means any information recorded
       about them is adverse. So all entries  about  Loan 5 onwards should  be removed from
       Miss Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires P2P to take off tax from this interest. P2P must  give
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Subject to any further representations by Miss H and P2P my provisional  decision was that 
Ref: DRN79996186I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  trading 
as Pounds to Pocket, to pay Miss H compensation as set out above.
Miss H responded  to my provisional decision  to say that she agreed with it.
P2P responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary,  that it believed  that its checks 
were adequate and proportionate  to the type and amount  of credit provided. It said that 
Miss H had a good repayment history, there  were  gaps between the loans and the loan 
amounts fluctuated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that P2P has referred to its checks being  adequate and proportionate in its response 
to my provisional decision.  But, as I said in my provisional decision, P2P was required to 
establish whether  Miss H could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  And P2P will know  from 
previous decisions  (as well as whats set out on our website) that there  are cases where this 
service considers the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  When  
a consumer borrows numerous loans over a long period of time, its most likely  that the loans 
arent being used  for their intended purpose  of temporary cash  flow problems. 
I note that P2P has again raised Miss Hs good repayment history.  I have already dealt with 
this argument  in my provisional decision.
I note that P2P has referred to the gaps in lending. I had already taken the gaps between the 
loans into account  when reaching my provisional findings and referred to these in my 
provisional decision.
I acknowledge that the amounts Miss H borrowed fluctuated, but I think  its fair to say there 
was a broad  upwards trend. Only one of Miss Hs last five loan amounts was less than her 
previous eight loans.  So although the amounts Miss H borrowed varied, I think P2P acted 
unfairly by allowing Miss H to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time.
Overall, P2P hasnt said anything that persuades me that the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision was unreasonable or incorrect. So my final decision is the same as I 
outlined in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as Pounds to Pocket, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss H paid on Loan 3b onwards;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
            they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  3b and 4 from Miss Hs credit file; and
Ref: DRN799961874.The number of loans  taken from Loan 5 onwards  means any information recorded
            about  them  is adverse. So all entries  about Loan 5 onwards should be removed from
            Miss Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires P2P to take off tax from this interest. P2P must  give
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999618