K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mrs T say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 2001.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
The MPPI policy covered  Mr W and Mrs T against being unable  to work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
It was sold as part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Policy (TMPP) which  could also have 
contained separate life assurance and critical illness policies.
My understanding is that Mr W and Mrs T were only sold MPPI cover and that is what  this 
decision relates to. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to comment  and 
send me any additional  evidence they wanted me to think  about. A copy  of my provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold this complaint, my main reasons 
were:
Mr W and Mrs T signed a declaration  declining  the MPPI when they applied for the 
mortgage.
Id not seen any persuasive  evidence that they changed their mind and applied for 
the MPPI.
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional findings.
Mr W and Mrs T have said they accept my provisional findings and have nothing further to 
add.
BoS has told us it is now prepared to make an offer to Mr W and Mrs T in line with this 
services guidelines and approach.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional findings. Neither BoS nor Mr W and         
Mrs T have  replied  with any new evidence or points for me to consider. Therefore I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN75136632putting things right
BoS should put Mr W and Mrs T in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken out 
MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and BoS should:
Pay Mr W and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr W or Mrs T made a successful claim under the MPPI policy,  BoS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give      
Mr W and Mrs T a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
The mortgage was in joint names as was the MPPI policy. Although the cover  was split 75% 
to Mr W and 25% to Mrs T, BoS should split the compensation equally between  Mr W and 
Mrs T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay Mr W 
and Mrs T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
complaint
Mr W and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy  in 2001.
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. The MPPI 
policy covered Mr W and Mrs T against  being unable  to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Ref: DRN75136633It was sold as part of a Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP) which could  also have contained 
separate life assurance  and critical illness  policies.
My understanding is that Mr W and Mrs T were  only sold MPPI cover and that is what this decision 
relates to. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im intending  to uphold this complaint because:
BoS had to give Mr W and Mrs T a fair choice over whether  to take out the MPPI or not. And from 
what Ive seen  I dont think it did.
The mortgage  was likely arranged  during  a branch  meeting. Mr W and Mrs T say they cant recall 
agreeing to the MPPI. They have said they had other resources to fall back  on and would not have 
chosen the MPPI policy if given the choice. On the other hand BoS has told us the policy  wouldve  
been presented as optional.
BoS has sent us part of the mortgage application that relates to insurance. There  is a section headed  
Total Mortgage protection Plan (TMPP). Within this section is the statement:
No, we do not wish to take advantage of the TMPP. We understand that we are responsible  for the 
mortgage repayments each  month if we are unable to work, die, or suffer a critical illness.
I can see that Mr W and Mrs T have both signed below this statement. The signatures are dated  23 
October 2001.  So I am satisfied that Mr W and Mrs T declined  the PPI at that stage.
BoS has sent us screenshots of its internal systems which show that a quote  for TMPP  was produced 
for Mr W and Mrs T on 29 November 2001. But the screenshot  does not show if the quote was for 
MPPI, life cover,  critical  illness or a combination  of the three. The screenshot also does not show if Mr 
W or Mrs T were  present at the time of the quotation  or if was carried  out over the telephone or 
posted to them.  And Ive seen  no persuasive evidence  that Mr W and Mrs T changed their mind 
about applying for the MPPI.
After so many years I cant say how or why the MPPI came to be added to Mr W and Mrs Ts 
mortgage but based on what Ive seen so far Im satisfied they actively declined  the cover when asked 
at the mortgage interview. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that they changed their minds at a 
later date. It follows that I dont think BoS gave  Mr W and Mrs T a fair choice over the MPPI.  So I think  
theyve lost out. Ive next thought about how BoS should put things right.
putting things  right
BoS should  put Mr W and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out MPPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and BoS should:
Pay Mr W and Mrs T the amount they paid each  month for the MPPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
Ref: DRN75136634If Mr W or Mrs T made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, BoS can take off what they got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give      Mr W and 
Mrs T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
The mortgage  was in joint names as was the MPPI policy. Although the cover was split 75% to Mr W 
and 25% to Mrs T, BoS should split the compensation equally between Mr W and Mrs T.
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ts complaint and direct  Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay Mr W and 
Mrs T compensation as set out above.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7513663