K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complained because many months  after shed cancelled her motor insurance policy 
one of Ambant  Limiteds  appointed representatives  S  wrote  to her saying that she owed 
a further £696.09.
background
S arranged  Mrs Ts motor insurance  policy. The policy started on 8 February 2018.  The 
premium was £224.73, which Mrs T paid by monthly  instalments. The following month Mrs T 
contacted her insurer to make a claim. The insurer deemed it as a fault claim and it paid the 
other driver in July 2018.
While the claim  was happening Mrs T contacted S to get a quote to insure a new vehicle 
under the policy.  S told Mrs T there would be an additional premium of £648.27.  S made  the 
necessary arrangements  for the new vehicle to be insured under the policy. Four days  later 
Mrs T contacted S to cancel the policy  as shed found a cheaper price elsewhere. S told her 
she would  have to pay £85.58, which included a £60 cancellation fee.
In April 2019 S wrote to Mrs T saying there was £696.09 owing on the policy.  It further said 
that if the money wasnt paid in 28 days it would start recovery proceedings, which  would 
add to the amount owed. It also said it could take further legal action and notify credit 
reference agencies.  Mrs T complained about the amount she was told she owed and about  
the aggressive nature of the communication.
S said Mrs T should  have  been told when she cancelled the policy  that because of the 
ongoing claim the remaining premium needed  to be paid in full. It did however say that the 
£60 cancellation  fee wasnt applicable. S confirmed that the £85.58 Mrs T paid when she 
cancelled the policy meant she owed a further £696.09. But it recognised that Mrs T was 
given incorrect information  so it reduced  the balance owing by £150. It also offered  to set up 
a payment plan to help Mrs T clear the balance owed.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought Ambant should pay Mrs T 
£150 compensation. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined  below; they 
form part of this final decision.
the cancellation of the policy
I didnt need  to decide whether S should  have  told Mrs T when she cancelled the policy  
that the remaining premium should be payable because it already  accepted  that it should 
have. I needed  to consider what effect  that misinformation had on Mrs T.
I didnt think S needed to explain  the cancellation figures to Mrs T during the calls when 
she arranged the insurance for the new vehicle  because  there  was no reason at that 
point to think that Mrs T would end up cancelling the policy.  I also didnt think Mrs Ts 
initial decision to insure the new vehicle was influenced by any incomplete information as 
shed already decided to insure  the new vehicle through S before she later decided  to 
cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN76669512But I thought  the incomplete information  could have had a detrimental  effect  on Mrs T 
financially because if the amount  outstanding needed paying Mrs T would have to pay 
that amount  as well as paying whatever it cost her to insure the new vehicle elsewhere. 
So there was an argument that Mrs T could lose out because  if S had fully informed  her 
of the position when  she cancelled  the policy it was more likely than not in my opinion  
that she wouldnt have  cancelled the policy. That was because there was no logical 
reason why she would pay over £700 for the outstanding premium and the cost of the 
new insurance elsewhere, when the other  option  would have been  to just continue  
paying the outstanding premium each month until the policy ended.
However, I thought  these arguments  were largely redundant  because  of the decision I 
was likely to make (and have now made) in respect of a similar  complaint  Mrs T made 
against the insurer.
But irrespective of the potential financial implications, I thought  that S not giving Mrs T 
the correct information  led to her suffering unnecessary distress  and inconvenience.  
Amongst other  things, as I thought Mrs T would have simply continued  with the same 
policy had she been fully informed she wouldnt have received the distressing 
communications nearly a year after the policy was cancelled saying that she owed  nearly 
£700.
communications with Mrs T.
In my opinion, the tone and the threat of recovery proceedings ignored  the fact that the 
initial email was received  by Mrs T out of the blue nearly a year after she cancelled  the 
policy. This wasnt a case where, for example, Ambant had repeatedly  written  to Mrs T 
and shed ignored them.
I thought the threatening  language used led to Mrs T suffering unnecessary  distress  as, 
amongst other things,  she was concerned that her credit  file and employment could be 
unduly affected.
appropriate compensation
I thought the amount Ambant offered as compensation was fair for the unnecessary 
suffering  it was in the region of what I would have considered reasonable if no offer 
had been made. But I didnt think it was fair for the amount to be offset against the 
outstanding premium. This pre-supposed that Mrs T actually owed the outstanding 
premium. But even  if she did owe it, the amount owing to the insurer  and compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  caused by S were two different things.
In my view, the £150 compensation should be paid to Mrs T directly rather than being 
offset against what the insurer  claimed  she owed.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ambant confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but it didnt make any further 
comments. Mrs T thought  the provisional decision was fair and confirmed that she didnt 
have anything further to add.
Ref: DRN76669513my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider,  my final decision remains as outlined  in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
I require Ambant Limited to pay Mrs T £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information  S gave when  she cancelled the policy 
and by the unreasonably aggressive  nature of Ss communications.
I dont make any other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2021.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666951