K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that esure Insurance Limited  failed to have  her car properly repaired after 
making a successful claim on her motor  insurance  policy.
background
One day in July 2018, Miss D was driving her car when  it was hit by another  driver.  She let 
esure know about the accident and made a claim under  her insurance policy,  which  it 
accepted. Miss Ds car was sent for repairs at one of esures approved  repairers. Shortly 
after it was returned,  she discovered a problem  with the drivers seat.
Miss D called esure to arrange for the seat to be repaired. esure said the repairer noticed the 
driver seat was damaged  but the damage  wasnt to the accident shed claimed for. So it 
wouldnt arrange for it to be repaired.  Miss D complained  she said the seat wasnt 
damaged before the accident.  She said she bought her car from the manufacturers 
dealership and always notified  the dealership of any concerns. Miss D also provided 
evidence to show her car was regularly serviced by an approved  dealer and no such  
damage had been  reported.  
esures repairer had another look at Miss Ds car seat. It said there were no loose bolts in 
the seat, and thought the seat damage  was due to wear and tear and couldnt be specifically 
linked to the accident Miss D had claimed  for. esure offered to review the matter if Miss D 
provided a report which  linked the seat damage to the accident.
Miss D referred her complaint to us. She said the impact in the accident caused  the damage  
to the drivers seat. She said the seat only wobbled in her driving position and not on every  
notch. Miss D provided her MOT  report and online videos showing the impact to a drivers 
seat following  a collision  to support  her argument. She was also concerned about the cost of 
the repairs to the seat might have meant esure shouldnt have written-off her car.
Our investigator thought esures  decision  to decline to repair  the drivers seat was a 
reasonable one, as its approved repairer  said the damage wasnt linked  to the incident. And 
esure pointed out damage caused  by wear and tear isnt covered under Miss Ds policy. Our 
investigator didnt  think  the evidence Miss D provided was strong enough to show  the 
damage to the seat was linked to the incident.  Miss D disagreed,  so this has come  to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as our investigator. 
Miss Ds policy  covers  her for accidental damage, but doesnt cover her for damage due to 
wear and tear. And Ive considered whether I think the seat damage  is covered under her 
policy. And  in particular   whether  it was damaged  when her car was hit by another car.
After the incident  Miss D claimed for, the approved repairer assessed the damage it thought 
was caused by the accident. There doesnt appear to be any dispute  about the repairs,  apart 
from the drivers seat.  esure  says any damage  to the seat was caused by wear  and tear, 
rather than the accident. Whilst the seat wobbles and has some  play, all the components  in 
Ref: DRN77787462the seat work. It noted the inner  seat ratchet seemed worn. The repairer  didnt think this was 
related to the accident.
Miss D says the seat was damaged during the incident, and has provided her own testimony 
and invoices from the manufacturers dealership  that show it hadnt picked up on a problem 
with the seat before. But this doesnt show the seat damage was linked to the incident  it 
shows only that the manufacturer didnt report a problem  with the seat on the date it last 
inspected the car. 
The videos and MOT report Miss D provided  dont comment on whether  any damage to the 
drivers seat was linked to the accident.  Miss D hasnt provided any other evidence, such as 
an independent report to support her opinion that the damaged was caused  by the accident. 
And  in view of this and what  the approved repairer has said, I think its most likely  to have 
been caused by wear  and tear and Miss Ds policy doesnt cover  this, So, I think  esures 
decision to decline her claim for the seat repairs is a reasonable one. 
Miss D has also mentioned that shes concerned  the correct cost of repairs  could have  made 
her car a write-off. And there is a second  estimate for repairs  on esures file, which is much 
higher than the repairs actually cost. But this includes replacement  of the seat, which   as 
Ive explained  - isnt likely to be needed as a result  of damage caused by the accident. And 
while the problem  with the seat might mean the pre-accident market  value  of Miss Ds car 
was slightly lower than esure thought, I dont think it would make it low enough to justify  
writing it off.  
Miss D has also mentioned some further  concerns with the repairs,  but she only did so after 
shed brought  the complaint to us, so Ive mentioned this to esure, so they can discuss these 
with Miss D and investigate them as necessary. 
In summary,  while I appreciate Miss Ds views on the problem with her seat, I dont think 
theres strong enough evidence to show it was damaged  in her accident. And this means its 
not appropriate for me to make esure  pay to have the seat repaired or replaced. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7778746