K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs H say Leeds Building  Society (Leeds) mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think Leeds made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take the PPI and they chose to 
take it. Mr and Mrs H have  said they werent  given any information about  the PPI and 
werent aware theyd  taken it out. But from what Ive seen, the loan application form they 
signed was marked  to select unemployment cover  for Mr H. So I think  its likely Mr and Mrs 
H were aware of the cover they were taking  although I understand they might  not 
remember this. Also to take the cover Mr H signed  a separate PPI application. So, overall,  I 
think it was clear the PPI was separate from the loan. With all this in mind, taking everything 
into account I think its likely Leeds  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs H didnt  have to take the 
cover  and they chose  to take it.
Leeds recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them - and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example it doesnt  look like Mr H was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And Mr and Mrs H seem  to have had a need  for the cover  - in case  Mr H suffered 
unexpected redundancy.
Its possible the information Leeds  gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. Taking 
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve changed 
Mr and Mrs Hs decision about taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Hs points  and Im grateful  for their patience throughout 
this matter. But in the light of all Ive said above,  these points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on the PPI  and whether Leeds 
treated them  unfairly.
Leeds has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Leeds has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think Leeds needed to tell Mr and Mrs H 
about the commission  so I dont think Leeds treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN78191392my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7819139