K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about problems  he had with making a payment for his motorhome 
insurance policy. And that Insurance Factory Ltd cancelled his policy  as a result.
Background
Mr W bought a motor insurance policy in June 2018 for his motorhome  through        
Insurance Factory.  Insurance  Factory acts as a broker, and so doesnt  provide insurance, 
but arranges it with a panel of insurers. He chose  to pay for the annual premium  in three 
instalments. When the policy started  Insurance Factory wrote  to Mr W to explain these 
payments and their due dates. 
In August  2018  Insurance Factory wrote to Mr W to remind him a payment was due by       
19 August 2018.  And then once the payment date had passed it called him, but didnt get 
through so it emailed  him about the outstanding payment. It explained Mr W had seven days 
to make this payment.  Since  it didnt  receive  this payment it issued a notice of cancellation 
on 28 August 2018. 
Mr W emailed the Insurance  Factory  on 29 August asking  for it to call him. It did the same 
day and discussed  payment.  Mr W explained he couldnt read the back of his card so 
couldnt make payment.  He said hed ordered  a new card,  but this could take seven days. 
The representative told Mr W he would need to make payment  by 4 September  and 
mentioned online payments.  However  Insurance Factory didnt receive payment by this date 
and so the cancellation went  into effect  on 4 September 2018. It wrote to Mr W to confirm  
this and explain the implications.
Mr W called  on 5 September and a payment  was taken. However the representative  called 
Mr W back a little later to explain the payment wouldnt be accepted  because  the policy had 
been cancelled  the previous day. So this payment was refunded.  Insurance  Factory said a 
cancellation fee and around  £22 was owed. However it decided to waive this. 
Mr W complained  about the cancellation  and said Insurance  Factory didnt offer him any 
alternative methods  of payment  when he had trouble with his card.  
Insurance Factory  said it had followed  the correct cancellation process. However it did 
recognise when  its representative discussed other  payment methods it didnt give Mr W its 
bank account  details so Mr W could make a BACS  transfer and it shouldnt  have taken 
payment on 5 September. It apologised for this and offered Mr W £30 to recognise  the level 
of service it provided. 
Mr W didnt accept this. He felt Insurance Factorys communication  hadnt  been clear, and it 
should have waited the seven days it would take for him to get a new card. He said as a 
result of the cancellation  new policies were more expensive, so he wanted a refund or the 
policy to be reinstated.
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Ws complaint. He thought Insurance  Factory  had 
acted reasonably and within the terms of the policy.  Mr W didnt agree. He said he 
sometimes didnt realise the emails  were important and there was poor communication on 
the call and so he wasnt clear on the payment options and deadline. Because  Mr W didnt 
agree, the case has come  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN78022222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
The terms of business agreement for Mr Ws policy says if a customer  fails to make a 
payment the policy can be cancelled. It also explains  charges can be incurred for failed  
payments and that if a payment is not received within  7 days of the default  we will 
commence the cancellation procedure in accordance with the policy  conditions.  So 
Insurance Factory  is able to start the cancellation process  if payment  isnt received seven 
days after the date of default.   
Mr W didnt make a payment on 19 August, so this is the date he defaulted.             
Insurance Factory  cancelled the policy on 4 September, so I think  it allowed at least  seven  
days. However I also need to consider whats fair and reasonable. Due to the implications of 
cancelling an insurance policy  Id expect an insurer to do enough to let a policyholder  know  it 
hadnt received  the payment. And also let them  know the policy  would be cancelled.  
Insurance Factory  called Mr W after the payment  wasnt received. Mr W says it didnt  leave a 
message. However  I can see it went on to write  to Mr W to let him know it hadnt  received its 
payment after the due date. It then issued a cancellation notice which  explained to him the 
implications of not paying for his policy. It then phoned him when he asked  it to and 
explained he could  make payments via its website and highlighted the deadline multiple 
times. 
When Mr W purchased  the policy he decided to pay for it through  three instalments. At the 
time of inception he was sent a letter that explained the payment system and the three  
methods to pay. It also highlighted  the implications  of not paying  an instalment. 
Mr W says because the correspondence came through email its difficult  to know whats  
important and what is advertising. However I can see when Mr W took out the policy  
Insurance Factory  specifically wrote to him explaining that it was going to email him, and he 
could opt out of this if he wanted to. By using email,  Mr W was able to get information  and 
warnings the same  day, rather than waiting for post to arrive some  days  later. So I think  the 
emails were helpful in this situation. Considering Insurance Factory tried to call Mr W and 
wrote to him multiple times,  I cant say it didnt do enough to bring this to Mr Ws attention.
Mr W has said he wasnt able to read all the information at the back  of his card,  so it was 
difficult to make payment.  But I think Insurance Factory made the implications  of not paying 
clear. And it gave Mr W a reasonable amount of time to get up to date. I also think       
Insurance Factory  acted  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  So I think  its fair 
for it to have cancelled the policy.
Insurance Factory  mistakenly took a payment from Mr W when he called on 5 September. It 
explained that the insurer had cancelled the policy correctly on 4 September,  however the 
Insurance Factory  systems hasnt updated  the next day and so the representative  wasnt 
aware of the cancellation. I can appreciate this made Mr W think  for a short time that 
payment had been made. But I can see the representative called Mr W back  very soon after 
taking the payment and that Insurance Factory  has arranged for a refund.
Ref: DRN78022223Insurance Factory  says when Mr W called  it should  have provided  him with its bank account 
details so he could  make a BACS transfer.  I agree this would have been helpful. However I 
can also see this information was in the initial letter  it sent to Mr W. And the reminder  letters 
all referred to and gave details of the alternative methods of payment. If Mr W wanted this 
information again I think he could have asked  the representative on the phone for it. So I 
think £30, as well as waving the cancellation  fee and writing  off the amount owed adequately 
reflects the inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
I understand Insurance Factory Ltd has offered Mr W £30 compensation. I conclude  this is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  so my final decision is that                          
Insurance Factory  Ltd should pay Mr W £30 if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7802222