K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that MBNA Limited hasnt treated her fairly when responding to 
her complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July. In that I said I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. A copy  is attached and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R says she cant find any more information about balances  on her account  or how much  
she paid for PPI. Thats understandable given how long ago the PPI was sold.
MBNA has accepted  my provisional decision and says it will make  Ms R an offer in line with 
my recommendations.
On this basis theres no reason for me to change  my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order MBNA Limited to:
find out (or estimate with an explanation to Ms R) how much Ms R would have  owed 
when she closed  her credit card account  if the policy hadnt been added. To do that it 
should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Ms R owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt  had PPI.
If Ms R made  a successful claim under the PPI policy,  MBNA  can take off what she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
MBNA should add simple interest  on the difference between what  Ms R would 
have owed when  she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets 
the refund.  The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year 
from then on.1
If  when MBNA  works out what Ms R would have owed each month  without PPI  
Ms R paid more than enough to clear  her balance, MBNA should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Ms R paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Ms R wouldve  owed MBNA  something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. (MBNA may 
need to take off tax from this interest before its paid to Ms R. If it does take off tax, 
MBNA must  give Ms R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one) .
Ref: DRN78299812MBNA should tell Ms R what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78299813copy of provisional decision issued July 2019
complaint
Ms R complains that MBNA Limited hasnt treated her fairly when responding to her 
complaint about mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Ms R complained to MBNA  that it had mis-sold  her PPI alongside a credit card she took out in 
1993.
Initially MBNA couldnt  find any trace of Ms Rs account  but when  she persisted, it did 
eventually find details of a card shed  taken  out in 1993, that was closed in 2001.  It 
acknowledged the account  had PPI attached to it, but because it didnt have any details about  
what Ms R might have  paid for the PPI it asked her to provide some information.
Ms R sent what  she had  which was an application for a loan in late 1997 which  showed a 
balance on the card of £1,800.
MBNA didnt do anything  about resolving  the complaint so Ms R brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator thought Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought  that, as MBNA wasnt 
contesting whether the PPI had been mis-sold it should  pay the appropriate redress to Ms R. And if it 
needed to estimate the PPI Ms R paid then it had information to start that process.
MBNA has asked on several occasions for more time to respond to us about  this. And, very late in 
the process, its sent some new information in, that it thinks  shows the PPI was cancelled the same 
day it was bought   so it doesnt think theres anything to refund.
Ive been asked  to decide the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt  seem to be any dispute over whether the PPI was mis-sold, so Im not going to look 
at that aspect of Ms Rs complaint.
MBNA recently sent in some  information  that is says shows the PPI was cancelled on the same  day 
it was bought. The information it sent us shows no actual link to either of Ms Rs accounts. Weve  
asked MBNA for more  information   including how this information is linked to Ms R and why it has 
taken so long for it to provide it. Disappointingly  weve  had no response.
At present, I dont think MBNA has shown me the PPI was cancelled. So I think  it 
appropriate for MBNA to pay redress.
This is how Im intending  to ask MBNA to put things right:
MBNA has asked Ms R to provide  information about how much she paid for PPI whilst  her card 
was open. Thats because it doesnt have  any information on its systems. Ms R has sent MBNA 
what she has, so I think  shes done all that could be expected of her.
MBNA has information that gives a balance  outstanding on the card for late 1997. And Ms R says 
she was applying for a loan to pay off this card amongst other things. I accept  this isnt an actual 
statement for the card, but I cant see any reason why the figure on the loan application wouldnt  
have been accurate at the time.  So I think  MBNA  has a starting point to calculate redress. And I 
Ref: DRN78299814think it fair to it to pay redress up to the point Ms R got her loan. Ms R says she was paying off the 
card with the loan, and she hasnt been able to show us there  was an outstanding  balance on her 
card after that date.
When there arent statements showing  the exact amounts  paid for PPI MBNA knows that 
reasonable assumptions  need to be made about the balance outstanding on the card and PI 
calculated accordingly.
I think MBNA could have done this a long time ago. Ms R says she sent the loan application to 
MBNA in 2017 and 2018.  So Ive thought about whether I should order MBNA to pay some 
additional compensation to Ms R as well as the usual  redress. However, MBNA is required to add 
interest at 8% per annum up to the date of payment  so Ms R will receive  some additional  
compensation for having to wait for so long, and I think thats fair.
putting things right
Ive listed  below the normal steps Id expect MBNA  to follow to put things right for Ms R. It will 
need to explain the assumptions its making about balances to Ms R. MBNA should  put Ms R in 
the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.   MBNA should find out how much Ms R would  have  owed when  she closed her credit  
card account  if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Ms R owed when  she closed her 
account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms R made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got
for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
B.   MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms R would have 
owed when she closed  her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.1
C.   If  when MBNA works  out what Ms R would have owed each month without PPI  Ms R 
paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Ms R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms R wouldve  owed 
MBNA something on her credit card.  The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 
8% a year from then on. (MBNA may need to take off tax from this interest before its paid to Ms 
R. If it does take off tax, MBNA must give Ms R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off 
if she asks for one).
D.   MBNA should tell Ms R what its done to work out A, B and C.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and order MBNA to compensate Ms R as outlined above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7829981