K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited (Countrywide)  mis-sold  her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D was sold PPI alongside her mortgage  in 2007. The policy provided Mrs D with 
unemployment , accident and sickness cover. It cost around  £70 per month  and would have 
provided a monthly  benefit of £1060 for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ds complaint should  be upheld. Countrywide  didnt  agree,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  I will explain why.
Countrywide advised Mrs D to take the PPI policy. This means it had to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for her needs, I dont think the PPI was suitable for her. 
Mrs D had two jobs at the time she took out the policy. She was employed part-time  and was 
also self-employed for part of the time. Looking at the terms and conditions  of the policy,  if 
Mrs D lost one of her jobs, but still had her other work, she wouldnt have been  able to make 
a successful claim on the policy. So, I think the circumstances in which she couldve made a 
successful claim  for unemployment were  limited. Had Countrywide made this clear  to Mrs D, 
I think it unlikley that she wouldve  taken out the policy.  I say this because  I dont think  she 
wouldve thought  the cost of the policy was worth  it to her, in her circumstances.  And  I dont 
think she wouldve taken the cover unless it had been recommended to her. So, I think 
Countrywide mis-sold Mrs D this PPI policy.
fair compensation
Countrywide should put Mrs D in the position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Countrywide should:
Pay Mrs D the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Countrywide can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
If Countrywide has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs D that relates  to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by Countrywide from the redress  shown above. 
Ref: DRN72920702 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Countrywide  to take off tax from this interest. 
Countrywide must give Mrs D a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against  Countrywide  Principal  Services Limited and require it to 
pay Mrs D fair compensation  as set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7292070