K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Virgin Money  plc left a voicemail  that contained personal information.  Mr C 
also complains that Virgin  didnt have permission to contact  him using his landline  and that 
when he called back he was given an incorrect card balance. Virgin later responded to 
Mr Cs complaint in the post and also wrote to him about some disputed  transactions but 
hed asked it to send emails instead.  
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 April 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Mr C responded to say that in order to bring matters to a conclusion  he is willing to accept. 
Virgin didnt agree with my provisional decision. It says Mr Cs request for email  
correspondence was in relation to its marketing activity. It also says that the team that looks  
at disputed transactions cant  email customers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin says that Mr Cs marketing preferences were switched to email  in November 2017 
which is what its contact notes were  referring to. But I can see that in addition to the 
marketing and media options, Mr C also told Virgin not to contact him by mail and that he 
didnt want any correspondence in the post. Thats a separate notation to the marketing 
preferences. 
Virgin says that the disputed  transactions  team  cant email  customers.  But if thats the case, 
I think it shouldve warned Mr C that some  parts of the business  can only correspond by post 
when he made his request in November 2017. I can see no evidence that Virgin  told Mr C 
that it would  write to him in certain  circumstances. And Virgins  complaint team  also wrote to 
Mr C with its final response  when, again, hed already said he wanted to be emailed. 
The information Virgins supplied  was included in its original submission so its something I 
took into account when issuing my provisional  decision. Ive thought about everything Virgin 
and Mr C have said in response to my provisional decision. I havent been  persuaded by to 
change to change  my mind and I still think its fair to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN76338442my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Virgin  Money plc to pay Mr C £100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76338443Copy of provisional decision dated 30 April 2019
complaint
Mr C complains Virgin Money plc left a voicemail that contained personal  information. Mr C also 
complains that Virgin didnt have permission to contact  him using his landline  and that when he 
called back he was given  an incorrect credit  card balance. Virgin later responded  to Mr Cs complaint 
in the post and also wrote  to him about some  disputed transactions but
hed asked it to send emails instead.
background
On 23 September 2018  Virgin left Mr C an answerphone  message on his landline and asked him to 
call. Virgins explained  that it wanted  to check Mr Cs credit  card activity.  When  Mr C called Virgin 
back he was told a transaction  had been declined  because he didnt have  enough money available 
and an outstanding credit card balance  was given.
Mr C later complained and said he hadnt given Virgin permission to contact him using his landline. 
When Virgin responded it sent him a letter but Mr C contacted it again and complained because he 
only wanted  to receive emails. Mr C says Virgins also written to him about some transactions hes 
disputed.
Virgin responded to Mr Cs complaint but didnt  agree it had made a mistake by calling his 
landline. Virgin said its terms meant it can contact Mr C using any of the methods it has available. 
Virgin agreed  to waive a £9 over limit fee as information it gave Mr C about  his balance changed 
when transactions were  claimed after he called.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator thought 
Virgin had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to take any further action.  Mr C didnt 
agree and asked for his complaint to be appealed  so its been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by talking about the voicemail  Virgin left. Ive listened to it and whilst  I
appreciate it was left on Mr Cs landline, so mayve been picked up by his wife, it doesnt contain any 
personal information.  The message simply  asked  Mr C to call. I understand 
Mr C says he only wanted  to be contacted by his mobile phone if Virgin were  going  to call so Ive 
gone on to look at that.
Virgin has sent in its contact notes and I can see that in 2017 Mr C asked to correspond by email. 
But I havent seen anything  to show he told Virgin not to call the landline number it had for him. Mr 
C says he didnt give permission for Virgin to call his landline  but the account terms do say its 
entitled to contact  him using the details  it has on file. And I think it was reasonable for Virgin  to call 
Mr C on 23 September  2018 as it needed to check transactions  that were  unusual.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C but as I cant find anything that says he specifically told Virgin to only call his 
mobile, I havent found its acted unfairly here.
Im more concerned with the correspondence thats been  sent to Mr C. Virgins  contact notes  show in 
November 2017 Mr C specifically  said he didnt  want any correspondence by post. Mr Cs 
instructions were clear  so I have trouble understanding why they werent followed.  I appreciate that 
Ref: DRN76338444Virgins terms say it can contact card holders  using any details it holds but Id still expect  the initial  
attempts to be in line with its customers preferences. Virgin hasnt  provided any evidence  it tried to 
correspond with Mr C by email first and then switched to post after it wasnt successful. I think 
Virgins provided poor service here.
Virgins contact  notes go further  and show that after it wrote to him about disputed  transactions in 
November 2018 it agreed to send the information again by email. This shows Virgin was able to 
email Mr C instead of writing to him. Again,  given the clear instructions  on Mr Cs account  I think 
Virgin shouldve followed them and emailed him.
Mr C says receiving  letters isnt right because he wants to keep information about his credit card 
private. I think  thats reasonable  and Mr C should be able to rely on Virgin  to act in line with his 
instructions unless it has a good reason not to. In this case, Im satisfied Virgin couldve 
corresponded with Mr C by email and I cant see any reason why it didnt  do so.
As a result,  I think its fair that Virgin  pays £100 to Mr C for the trouble  and upset  caused by writing  
to him. I know Mr C thinks £1,000 is the right amount but Im not persuaded that the impact of 
Virgins letters  means that level of award would be fair. And, as Ive said above, I havent found that 
Virgin made an error by calling Mr Cs landline.
Virgin waived a £9 over limit fee because information about  Mr Cs balance changed after he called, 
when merchants debited payments from his credit card. I appreciate the information  changed  but 
thats the nature  of credit and debit card transactions as there can be a delay depending on when the 
merchants processed them. I think Virgins decision  to waive the fee was fair in the circumstances.
Ive considered everything Mr C and Virgin have said and submitted in this case. Having done so, 
for the reasons Ive given  above, I think Virgin  should pay Mr C £100 for failing to correspond  by 
email in line with his preferences.  Im satisfied £100 fairly  reflects  the impact  of Virgins error on Mr 
C.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct Virgin Money  plc to pay
Mr C £100.
Mr C and Virgin Money plc have until 30 May 2019 to send me anything further theyd like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7633844