K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to obtain  a refund of the money they 
paid for a timeshare.  
background
Mr and Mrs C made  two cheque payments to a timeshare company in 2003. In July 2018 Mr 
C wrote  to HSBC to claim back these payments as he considered  they hadnt received the 
service promised. HSBC responded to say that as the payments had been made by cheque  
rather than by credit or debit card it had no means  of requesting a refund.
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the bank was unable to use 
the chargeback  system as this didnt apply to cheque payments.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and referred  to an article in the press and said the bank had a 
duty of care to its customers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A cheque  is a written  (usually paper-based) instruction from a customer  (the drawer)  to their 
account provider  (the bank or building  society) to pay on demand a specified amount to a 
named beneficiary  (the payee). The bank paid the money over to the timeshare companys 
account in accordance with the instructions given by Mr and Mrs C and it has no means  of 
recovering that money. It did as it was instructed  and unlike the laws surrounding credit  and 
debit card payments  there is no mechanism by which  the bank can act as requested by Mr 
and Mrs C.
Furthermore, the bank  has no evidence the money was paid out of one of its accounts as it 
no longer has records  of transactions from 2003.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say they used  
that account to make  the payment and I have  no reason to doubt them. I also note that over 
15 years  have elapsed  since  they made the payments and the passage of time would make  
any claim more  problematic had there been a mechanism for pursuing the claim via the 
bank. 
I agree  that the bank has a duty of care but that doesnt mean that it is obliged to pay 
customers who have made cheque payments and some 15 years later complain that they 
have been misled.
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs C, but I cant  say that the bank has done anything  
wrong. I fear that chasing the timeshare company direct would also be a fruitless task and 
may cause  Mr and Mrs C to lose yet further money if they took that route. 
Ref: DRN70770772my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077077