K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that their claim for subsidence damage, made under their Aviva 
Insurance Limited home  insurance policy, has been  declined.
background
In 2005 a two storey  extension was built onto the back of Mr and Mrs Ks property. The 
extension was built on 1.6m deep  strip foundations, whereas the main house was built on a 
piled foundation. 
In 2015 Mr and Mrs K noticed the junction between the main  house and the extension 
opening up slightly on the right-hand flank wall. It was repointed.  By 2018  that crack had 
reopened and more  cracking had appeared, so they reported it to Aviva.  
Aviva sent out loss adjusters to assess the damage to Mr and Mrs Ks home.  Cracking was 
identified at the junction of the old and new parts of the property and within the extension. 
The damage was described as severe.  Site investigations were arranged.
The site investigations  identified that the property was built on 2.2m  of sandy clay with brick  
pieces  this was considered made  ground,  which is soil that is brought onto a site, to level 
it or increase its height. There was then a 0.8m layer of firm sandy  silty clay and dense silty 
sand below that. The loss adjusters engineer assessed this information and said that the top 
3m of soil under the extension was not capable of supporting  the building,  hence the original  
property having  needed to be built on piled foundations.
A drainage survey was also completed and this confirmed there were defects in the drains 
that ran alongside the rear right corner or the property.  Avivas loss adjusters thought the 
leaking drains could  have been causing, or at least contributing toward,  the movement.  
Aviva decided to repair  the drains so it could rule them out as a contributory factor. Aviva  
concluded that if the property was stable after the repairs were  completed, the claim would 
be accepted. The property was then monitored between  June  2018  and January 2019 to see 
if it was still moving.
Based on what Mr and Mrs K have said to us, they seem to have been told this. But on 
5 June 2018 Aviva wrote  to Mr and Mrs K with a slightly different message. The letter  
explained what had been found  in the ground excavations and that the drainage  survey  had 
found defects  in the drains. It went on to say that the leaking drains were the cause of the 
foundation movement and so they would be repaired. Once  the drainage repairs had been 
done Aviva  would instruct its contractors to carry out repairs.
The property was monitored during the second half of 2018 and it was shown  that it 
continued to move. So it was concluded  the foundations were  inadequate and it was likely 
the extension  had never been stable, but had been constantly moving since  it was built. This 
was supported by the need  to do some repairs in 2015. 
Aviva concluded  the extension  should  have been  built on piled foundations, as the main 
house had been. As such, it decided  the extension foundations were poorly designed and 
that was the reason the extension had subsided. As the policy excluded faulty design and 
poor workmanship, Aviva declined the claim.  However, Aviva apologised for the delay in it 
coming to this conclusion  and any expectations about repair it might have caused 
Ref: DRN77600672Mr and Mrs K to have due to its letter of June 2018, so it offered them £200 compensation 
for any loss of expectation and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy their home wouldnt be repaired and complained to Aviva.  It 
didnt change its decision and the complaint was referred to this service. Following referring 
the complaint  Mr and Mrs K explained that when building control had attended  their property 
to inspect the foundations  the foundation depth  had to be dug out more than once before it 
was happy the foundations were deep enough. They also offered to provide the building 
regulations certificate  if we wished to see it.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence.  She was persuaded by the results of the 
investigations and Avivas engineers explanation  of why the foundations of Mr and Mrs Ks 
extension were inadequate and that was the cause  of the movement. As such, she was 
satisfied Aviva could apply the exclusion  for faulty  design and poor workmanship to defeat 
the claim.  
Mr and Mrs K didnt  accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
considered further.  They  said they feel like they did everything in the right order and applied  
for planning permission. They further said that Aviva told them it would monitor  the property 
over eight months - which it didnt do as it only took two readings  and if the ground stopped 
moving after the drainage repairs then they would be covered for all the damage  on their 
property. They said they were told the property  was stable after the two readings that were 
taken, but Aviva back tracked on its commitment.
Our investigator reiterated that Mr and Mrs Ks policy only covers damage caused  by insured 
events, but subject to the application  of exclusions. She also said that she was satisfied the 
£200 offered by Aviva for raising Mr and Mrs Ks expectations about the claim being 
accepted was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy with the investigators  conclusions.  They  said the last 
monitoring reading hadnt been done, implying Aviva  had created that information. They said 
they would  get their own expert report.  Over  two months have passed since  Mr and Mrs K 
said they would get a report of their own, but none has been  provided. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy allows Aviva  to decline claims if it is evidenced that the subsidence 
was caused because the building (including  its foundations) was poorly designed.  As its an 
exclusion, the burden of proving the exclusion should apply lies with Aviva. 
As would be expected with a subsidence claim, Aviva completed  some investigations into 
the ground conditions. It discovered the property  was built on poor quality soil that might 
have difficulty bearing loads. However, the soil might also be detrimentally  affected by the 
flow of water  washing away smaller  fines and/or reducing its strength further.  So a drainage 
survey was done; leaks in the drains  were  discovered and repaired. 
Ref: DRN77600673The drains were repaired  and the property  monitored. Mr and Mrs K have said no-one 
attended their property in January 2019  to take the final monitoring reading Aviva  has taken 
into account when  assessing the claim.  The implication being  that this reading was created 
by Aviva to allow it to decline their claim. I have no evidence that is the case  and I would 
comment that the monitoring results taken  in August and October  2018  also show  the 
property was still moving, so there would be no reason for Aviva  to falsify evidence  for 
January 2019.
The monitoring showed  the drainage repairs  didnt stop the property moving, so Avivas 
engineer concluded the water leaking from the drains hadnt been the cause of the 
movement. Avivas engineer assessed the evidence  about  the soil conditions  and the type of 
foundations on the extension. The fact the main house had been built on a piled foundation 
was also considered, as were the previous repairs. The conclusion  was that the foundations  
were inadequate. 
This service will rely on expert opinion where it is suitably evidenced and persuasive.  I know  
that this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs K, but that is the situation in this case. When the original 
property was built the ground conditions were considered to necessitate piled foundations, 
so that the weight of the building  was supported by stronger soil at some depth  beneath  it. 
Whilst I accept  the foundations  for the extension were quite deep,  the evidence  does 
indicate they werent sufficient given the ground  conditions. As such, I cant  find that Aviva 
was wrong when it applied the exclusion for faulty design and poor workmanship to defeat  
Mr and Mrs Ks claim. 
I note that Mr and Mrs K have said that Aviva reneged on its commitment  to monitor  the 
property for eight months. I have reviewed the monitoring information from Avivas  
contractors and this shows  that monitoring didnt stop after two readings as Mr and Mrs K 
believe. There were  readings  taken  in June (when the equipment was installed), August and 
October 2018 and January 2019. So whilst  the property  wasnt monitored for eight months, it 
wasnt much  short  of that period. 
Although the letter  Mr and Mrs K received  in June 2018 said the property would be repaired 
after the drains were  fixed, its also clear from their recollections theyd also been told the 
correct information;  that the repairs would be done  if the property was shown to be stable. 
So whilst the differing information may have caused confusion  and might  have raised  their 
expectations, I cant uphold the complaint and order Aviva to repair  the property because of 
it. However, it was poor service; but I think the £200  offered  by Aviva is sufficient in the 
circumstances. If Mr and Mrs K want to accept the offer, they should speak to Aviva  directly.
Mr and Mrs K have  said they did everything they could at the time the extension was built to 
ensure it was done property. I accept that is the case  and it was entirely  reasonable for them  
to rely on the professionals  they employed.   I can understand their upset and frustration at 
now being told it wasnt built as well as it should  have been.  However,  I cant ignore the 
evidence and that says the foundations  for their extension werent adequately designed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 29 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
Ref: DRN77600674ombudsman
Ref: DRN7760067