K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained that Cigna Insurance Services  (Europe) Limited cancelled her 
accidental death  insurance policy without her permission.  Mrs G is represented in her 
complaint by her daughter, Ms S.
background
In 1996, Mrs G took out an accidental death insurance policy with Cigna. The policy would 
pay a lump sum benefit if Mrs G were  to die following an accident.
In 2016, Ms S complained  on behalf of her mother that the policy  had been mis-sold. She 
said the policy had been sold to her mother at the local branch of her mothers  bank  but that 
her mother  couldnt speak English and therefore couldnt  have  understood what  she was 
being told.
In June 2016, Cigna issued a final response  letter. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said that 
the policy hadnt been sold to Mrs G in the branch of her bank but had been taken out after 
she responded to a mailing.
In September  2018, Ms S noticed  that premium payments  for the policy were no longer 
being taken from her mothers account. She telephoned Cigna to ask about this. Cignas 
representative explained that the policy had lapsed  due to non-payment of premiums 
following the 2016 complaint. The representative  also said that the policy had been  sold in 
branch though, after checking further,  he corrected  this and said the policy had been sold 
through a mailing.
Ms S considered that the representatives initial advice that the policy  had been sold in 
branch supported her mothers earlier complaint that the policy  had been mis-sold. On behalf 
of her mother, she complained to Cigna again about  this point. She also complained  that it 
had cancelled the policy without her mothers knowledge or authority. She asked for a copy  
of the call recording.
Cigna issued another final response letter in September  2018.  It said that its representative 
had given wrong information when  he said the policy had been sold in a bank branch and it 
apologised for this error. It pointed out that the complaint  about  the mis-sale  had been  dealt 
with in its earlier final response letter. It said that Ms S had asked it to put the policy on hold 
when she made the complaint in June  2016  and it had twice  asked whether  Mrs G wished to 
continue with the policy but received no instruction and so the policy eventually lapsed.  It 
pointed out that Mrs G had complained of the policy being mis-sold which suggested  she 
didnt want or need it.
Ms S was unhappy  at Cignas response. On behalf  of her mother, she referred the complaint 
to us. She pointed out that she hadnt been  provided  with a recording of the phone  call as 
she had requested.
An ombudsman issued  a decision  in February  2020  explaining that we were unable to 
consider Mrs Gs complaint that the policy had been mis-sold because  she hadnt referred 
this to us within six months  of Cignas final response  letter in June 2016. The ombudsman 
considered that the information  given  by Cignas representative in September  2018, which 
he later corrected, didnt make a difference in this respect. The ombudsman concluded, 
Ref: DRN73041462however, that we were able to consider Mrs Gs complaint about the cancellation  of the 
policy.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I considered that Mrs Gs complaint about the 
cancellation of the policy should  not be upheld. My findings were  as follows:
When Cigna issued  its final response letter in June  2016, it asked Mrs G if she wished to 
cancel the policy.  Ms S responded in July 2016 saying that although Mrs G hadnt paid the 
latest premium, she wanted the policy to be put on hold until the matter  of the mis-sale had 
been resolved.  Cigna responded later in July 2016  re-iterating its view that the policy hadnt 
been mis-sold and asking  whether Mrs G wished to cancel or reinstate the policy.
Mrs G apparently didnt receive that letter. After hearing nothing,  and having received  no 
premium for three months, Cigna cancelled  the policy. It didnt inform  Mrs G.
In March 2017, Mrs G said she hadnt received Cignas letter  of July 2016. Cigna therefore  
sent it to her again.
After receiving a copy of the letter  in March 2017, neither Mrs G nor Ms S on her behalf 
sought to contact Cigna to ask about  reinstating  premiums for the policy.
It wasnt until September 2018  that Mrs G apparently realised that premiums  for the policy  
were no longer being paid and then learned about  the cancellation. But I dont know  why 
Mrs G should only have  realised in September 2018 that premiums were  not being  paid. 
Mrs G had apparently stopped the premium payments in June 2016 at the time she made 
her mis-sale complaint and neither she nor Ms S on her behalf had issued any instruction for 
payments to be restarted,  despite Cigna asking her about her wishes  on two occasions.
It is true that Cigna hadnt written to Mrs G to confirm the policy had lapsed and arguably it 
should have done. But equally I consider it was unreasonable for Mrs G to have expected 
Cigna to place  her policy on hold for over two years. If she had wanted to reinstate the 
policy, she should have  told Cigna this.
Furthermore, even if Cigna had told Mrs G that the policy  was about to lapse, I dont think  it 
would have made any difference to what happened. The fact that Mrs G had complained the 
policy was mis-sold and wanted a full refund of premiums indicates that she no longer 
wanted the policy. So I dont believe she would have chosen  to reinstate the policy  even if 
Cigna had prompted her about  this for a third time.
And I also cant see how Mrs G has been disadvantaged by Cignas actions. She fortunately 
has not suffered  an accidental death  since the time the policy  was cancelled and so hasnt 
lost out financially;  on the contrary, she has saved over two years worth of premiums. If 
Mrs G now thinks  that she does want this type of cover, she can simply take out a new policy  
either with Cigna (if it still offers such a policy  and she is eligible) or with another  provider. 
The fact she apparently hasnt done this reinforces my belief that she wouldnt have chosen  
to reinstate her premium payments in 2016 even  if shed  been alerted to the fact that the 
policy was about  to lapse. 
Cigna did make a mistake by failing  to send Ms S a copy of the September 2018  call 
recording but it has apologised for this oversight and has now provided this.
Ref: DRN73041463In summary,  I cant see that Cigna  did anything wrong by cancelling Mrs Gs policy following 
the non-payment of premiums.  I therefore  dont see why it needs to pay any compensation.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Cigna accepted my provisional decision.
Ms S, on behalf of Mrs G, didnt accept my provisional decision. She questioned what 
grounds I had for assuming her mother wouldnt  have wanted to continue with the policy. 
She said that Cigna  hadnt made  sufficient  effort to contact them about her mothers wishes  
in respect of the policy and should have informed them it was cancelling it. She maintained  
that her mother had believed the policy was still in place and it was a shock  to learn 
otherwise in September 2018. She considered that Cignas apology  was inadequate to 
compensate for its failure to send  them  a recording of the September 2018  telephone  call.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision that this complaint should not be upheld.
Ms S asks what  grounds I had for assuming her mother wouldnt have wanted to continue 
with the policy.  To repeat  what I said in my provisional decision,  Mrs G had complained that 
the policy was mis-sold  which implies  that she had decided she didnt want  or need  the 
policy.
Im satisfied that Cigna  twice wrote to Mrs G asking her to confirm whether she wished  to 
reinstate or cancel  the policy. It was up to Mrs G to respond to these enquiries. She couldnt 
reasonably expect Cigna to place  the policy on hold indefinitely. In the absence of any 
response from Mrs G, I consider it was reasonable  for Cigna to allow  the policy  to lapse due 
to non-payment  of premiums.
I consider that it would have been preferable if Cigna had written to Mrs G to confirm the 
policy had lapsed.  However, I dont consider that Mrs G was disadvantaged by Cignas 
failure to do this. This is because, as explained above, I dont believe that Mrs G wanted  the 
policy to continue.
In any case, even if Mrs G had wanted  to continue with the policy,  I cant  see how shes  
been disadvantaged. She hadnt had cause  to make a claim under the policy  in the 
intervening period and there  appears  to be nothing stopping her from taking  out a new policy 
with either  Cigna or another  insurer. The fact she apparently hasnt done so would seem to 
confirm that Mrs G doesnt want this type of cover.
Cigna should  have sent Mrs G a copy of the telephone recording when  this was requested. 
Im satisfied this was just an oversight on the part of Cigna. I consider  that its apology  is 
sufficient for the minor inconvenience  caused  to Mrs G.
In light of the above, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied  that 
Cigna doesnt  need to take further  action  in respect of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73041464my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S, on behalf of 
Mrs G, to accept  or reject my decision before  24 September  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7304146