K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited failed to accurately check his 
signature on an endowment policy surrender request in August 2008. This meant the policy  
 held jointly with his wife  was surrendered  and he didnt receive  his half of the proceeds.  
He says this is because his ex-wife  surrendered  the policy without his knowledge.
background
This complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who didnt  think it should be 
upheld. He didnt  think Standard Life had done  anything wrong in accepting the surrender 
request and making payment of the proceeds.  
Standard Life made  no further comment. 
Mr Cs solicitors didnt accept  the adjudicators view and said: 
Mr Cs signature  on the surrender request  was clearly not genuine.
Standard Life should have recognised this because subsequent correspondence 
wouldve made them aware of Mr Cs ongoing dispute. 
Standard Life shouldnt have destroyed the file it held for Mr C. It was aware this was 
the subject of a dispute. 
The surrender  request  letter  supplied  to this service must relate to the surrender of 
the endowment.  The letter references  the policy number. Mr C doesnt  accept that 
the letter may not the original one, as was suggested by Standard  Life. 
Mr C doesnt wish to raise  the matter of potential fraud  with the Police because  he 
wants to protect his children. 
Would Mr C obtaining analysis by a handwriting expert help his complaint? He would 
seek for this to be paid for by Standard Life. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now more than 11 years since the surrender request was received and processed  by 
Standard Life. As such, Im not surprised  or concerned that the records relating  to the matter 
are limited.  I dont think this is indicative of any wrongdoing on the part of Standard Life.
We dont know which copy of Mr Cs signature  Standard Life would have used  to compare 
with the one on the surrender letter, if it indeed doing so was part of the surrender process at 
all. And in any event,  I note that the various example signatures supplied  as evidence by 
Mr Cs representative arent particularly consistent  with each other.  And the policy  was taken  
out 18 years  prior to its surrender so theres also every possibility that there  would be some 
change in signature over that sort of period. 
But, signature aside,  we do know that the surrender value  was paid into the bank account 
from which the premiums had been received, which was a joint account that Mr C held with 
his ex-wife. Standard  Life has also said that a confirmation letter  wouldve been  sent to the 
Ref: DRN72884942joint account holders  at the registered address.  I accept that theres no copy of this available,  
but it would  be normal procedure with this type of transaction.
So, in all the circumstances,  and given the relatively modest size of the payout  around 
£6,500  I dont think  I can reasonably conclude that Standard  Life did anything  wrong  in 
accepting the surrender  request and making payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288494