K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they did not want the packaged bank account which  they have 
held in different  forms with Barclays Bank  UK plc (Barclays) from February  2003  to the 
present.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a current account with Barclays in August 1994. The account had an 
overdraft provision added in February 1998.
The account  was upgraded to an Additions  Account (AA) with a monthly fee in February 
2003.
It was then further upgraded to an Additions Plus Account  (APA)  with a monthly fee in July 
2005.
It then changed  to a current account with tech and travel packs  which  incurred a fee in 
January 2017.
Mr and Mrs H removed the tech pack in January  2019.
Mr and Mrs H say they were told they had to take out the AA in 2003 in order  to get a 
second savings  account. Since then they have never wanted  to pay any fees and were 
never offered a fee free alternative  at any time.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and did not uphold it. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree and so the case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  explained  how we handle  
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used the approach  to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
For clarity this decision is only about  the actions of Barclays in relation to the upgrade to the 
AA, the subsequent upgrade to the APA, and then the change to the current account with 
tech and travel packs.
In my view Mr and Mrs H have been  very clear  about what their main  complaint is. They  say 
they were told by Barclays in February  2003 that they could only have a second savings 
account to deposit a sum from selling a house if they agreed to take out an AA. Since  then 
they say they would have  preferred  to have a fee free account and although the account  was 
upgraded twice,  they would not have used the account if they had known they had a choice 
as it wasnt suitable  for them.
Barclays says the fees have  always  appeared on Mr and Mrs Hs statements and they 
regularly communicated  with them  about  the fees, benefits and upgrades. Barclays also 
says that the account was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H at all times.
Ref: DRN78449452The upgrade  to the AA in February2003.
Its not possible for me to know what was said when the AA was opened nearly  seventeen 
years ago, so I can only consider what each party says now and the evidence  available.
Firstly Ive considered whether or not Mr and Mrs H were told they had to take out the AA in 
February 2003, and whether or not they chose to take it out.
Whilst I dont doubt  their honest  recollections, I think their memory is mistaken and its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were aware  they had a choice whether to take out the AA 
or not. I say this because Mr and Mrs H had had a fee free account with an overdraft facility 
from Barclays for several years  before  the sale of the AA. So they were aware fee free 
accounts with overdrafts were available in February  2003. And they were reasonably 
experienced users of financial  products.  Savings accounts were widely advertised and 
available from many banks, building societies and other financial institutions. So I think if 
theyd been told they had to pay a monthly fee for a bank account  to get a savings account, 
its more likely than not that they would have challenged  this and looked elsewhere. So I 
dont think its reasonable for me to conclude, as I would have to in order to uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint on this point, that its more likely  than not Mr and Mrs H were  told they 
had to take out the AA in order  to get a savings account.
So I think Mr and Mrs H knew  they had a choice about whether to take out the AA in 
February 2003 and they chose to take it out and to pay the fees for it.
Barclays says that it wasnt an advised sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such  as an 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs needs to show that it was. So, I think its more likely than not 
that it was a non advised  sale and Barclays only needed to provide Mr and Mrs H with 
sufficient information  about the AA to make  an informed  choice.
The AA contained  a range  of benefits including  car breakdown cover, cardholder protection,  
extended warranty and a £250 interest  free overdraft facility. I dont know what Barclays said 
or what information it gave Mr and Mrs H but Barclays was trying to sell the AA to Mr and 
Mrs H so I think its likely it gave them a full description of the benefits. 
I also think that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been interested  in some of the benefits.  I say this 
because they had a car, and they used the overdraft  facility in the months prior before and 
after the sale. 
And there was nothing  Mr and Mrs H have  raised about their personal  circumstances at the 
time that would have  prevented them from using  the benefits.  
As this was an information  only sale, it was for Mr and Mrs H to decide if they wanted the 
benefits and then arrange to use them if they wished.
So in my view I can see why Mr and Mrs H mightve been interested in the AA and there was 
no information that they didnt receive from Barclays that would likely have put them  off 
taking it out.
The upgrade  to the Additions Plus Account in July 2005.
My finding  above  is that I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H chose  to take out 
the AA and I have  evidence  from Barclays that they used the car breakdown service twice 
Ref: DRN78449453and benefitted  from the better overdraft facilities while they had it. So for this reason and 
those given above I think its also more likely than not that they knew  they had a choice and 
chose the upgrade to the APA. 
Barclays says this was an advised  sale, so Barclays needed to provide Mr and Mrs H with 
sufficient information  about the APA to make an informed choice and it also needed to 
ensure that the APA was suitable  for them. 
As before Barclays was trying to sell the APA to Mr and Mrs H, so I think  its likely that it 
gave Mr and Mrs H a full description of the benefits  both verbally and in subsequent 
documentation. 
The APA contained similar  benefits to the AA but with the addition  of worldwide travel 
insurance.
Barclays has provided evidence that while they had the APA, Mr and Mrs H used the car 
breakdown six times, and continued to benefit from the better  overdraft facilities,  and Mr H 
had a medical for the travel  insurance  in 2013.
When mobile phone insurance and home emergency cover were added  to the product the 
following year, they registered for the mobile  phone cover several times and they used  the 
home emergency call out twice.
The fact that they the used the benefits shows they knew  about them. And in my view this 
shows that the APA was suitable for them too. At any given time, it was for Mr and Mrs H to 
arrange to use the benefits as they wished.
I note that Mr and Mrs H say they didnt  need travel insurance when  they travelled abroad  to 
stay with relatives who had medical  expertise. But I disagree as in my view they would have 
needed to pay for medical facilities if theyd had a serous injury or illness.
Mr H also says he wouldnt have been covered  by the travel  insurance due to medical 
conditions that arose  for him over the years  they had the APA. But the travel insurance cover  
refers to their medical situation at the time a booking is made. The policy only required Mr 
and Mrs H to declare any medical condition. And I think its more likely than not that had they 
done so, cover would  have  been available on the accounts insurance for a small additional 
premium at a competitive  rate, so the APAs travel  insurance still had value and was useful. 
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs H chose to take out the APA,  and it was 
suitable for them. And there was no information  that they didnt receive from Barclays  that 
would likely  have put them  off taking it out.
the change to the current account with tech and travel packs  in 2017
In September  2016 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs H to tell them the APA would no longer be 
available and it was being replaced by a current account with a tech  and travel pack that 
offered similar  benefits for a similar fee. Barclays asked  Mr and Mrs H to reply if they didnt 
want the replacement  account. Mr and Mrs H didnt reply so Barclays wrote  to them  again  in 
January 2017  to say the change to the account  had been made.  
Ive seen copies  of the letters and they are both correctly addressed, so I think  its more  
likely than not that Mr and Mrs H received at least one of them  and could have closed the 
Ref: DRN78449454account if they had wished  to. So I dont think Barclays  did anything  wrong  in changing  the 
account in this way.
Barclays subsequently removed the tech pack when Mr and Mrs H requested and from 
Barclays evidence I think this was done  in a timely  and appropriate manner.
summary
So, while I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed by this, I dont think  Barclays  did 
anything wrong  when it upgraded their account  to the AA, upgraded the account to an APA 
or to a current account with tech and travel pack.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the upgrade  of their 
Barclays account to the AA, the subsequent upgrade to the APA and then the change to the 
current account with tech and travel packs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Richard Hill 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7844945