K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
December 2003  alongside a credit  card. Mr R, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. From  what  Ive seen 
about the card application process, I think Mr R made a decision to take out the policy.  
Ive seen that on his application form a box was marked with an X to show  hed chosen  
PPI. So I think he would have  had the opportunity to review  his application and discuss it 
with the BoS representative before making  his decision to buy the policy and signing the 
application form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr R at a meeting in branch  even  though Mr R 
isnt so sure about this - so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. I say this 
given that it would pay out in addition to the existing benefits he was receiving from his 
employer if he was unable to work,  which  were  6 months at full pay followed by 6 months  
at half pay. The PPI would also pay out if he lost his job. So he wouldnt have to rely on 
other potential sources of funding to help out. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
made by those representing Mr R in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont affect 
my decision.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr R paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr R back  some of the cost of the PPI. And from what  Ive seen, it looks  as if BoS has 
already paid this to Mr R. So I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN79199952my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7919995