K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited wrongly  settled another  
drivers claim  against his motor insurance  policy. 
background
Mr M had an accident which he didnt think was his fault. But Markerstudy  thought that he 
was at least 50/50 at fault. The other  drivers insurer accepted  this and was willing  to settle  
on a 50/50 basis.  But by mistake Markerstudy  settled the other drivers claim in full instead.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. He thought that 
Markerstudys decision to settle the case 50/50  was reasonable,  but that it wasnt 
reasonable for them to mistakenly settle  it as if the accident was 100% Mr Ms fault. The 
adjudicator thought that Markerstudy  had misinformed him and should  correct his insurance  
record and pays him £100  compensation for his trouble and upset.   
Markerstudy did not respond to the adjudicators recommendation, so Mr Ms complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr M, we dont decide which  party is liable for causing an 
accident, as thats  a matter for the courts. But we do consider whether an insurer  has acted 
as they are allowed to do under  the policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in 
a fair and reasonable way. Ive looked  at Mr Ms policy and see that (in page 13 general 
condition 4) Markerstudy  have the right to take over and carry out in your name.the 
defence or settlement of any claim. This means  that Markerstudy can settle  claims as they 
see fit, whether Mr M agrees with that or not. This is a normal  clause in insurance  policies 
and this service doesnt interfere  with insurers decisions as long as we think  theyre 
reasonable. 
Mr M accepted that he had collided  with the other car while driving in snow and ice, but felt 
that the other driver  was to blame for turning in the middle of the road. But the other driver 
said that they were  stationary after an incident  with a third car. Markerstudy got both parties 
account of events, and looked  at all the available evidence, including dashcam footage. 
They felt that Mr M was 50/50  liable on the basis that he should have left adequate distance  
to stop for an unforeseen circumstance  in the road ahead of him. I agree that, based on the 
available evidence, Markerstudy did not act unfairly or unreasonably in deciding that Mr M 
was 50/50 liable. They also discussed it with him at first and explained their reasoning.  
However, although Markerstudy did offer the other drivers insurer  a 50/50 settlement, and 
the other drivers insurer  accepted  that, Markerstudy by mistake paid them  the full amount  
of their insureds claim  instead of 50% of the claim. When Mr M complained about this, 
Markerstudy didnt discover  their mistake, and so told Mr M that theyd made full settlement, 
as if the accident  had been fully his fault. Such a settlement basis is recorded as a fault 
claim against him. 
Ref: DRN73491152However, any claim where the insurer cant recover all of their costs from someone  is 
described as a fault claim. This means that a 50/50 settlement decision is also recorded as 
fault claim.  So, as the adjudicator explained to Mr M, even if Markerstudy  had settled the 
claim against him correctly, as a 50/50 liability, he would still have had a fault claim on his 
record. 
But Markerstudy didnt  explain this to Mr M and I can see that this and their other  
misinformation left him feeling  left quite uncertain and confused about what  had happened  
with the claim and why. And I think that was down to Markerstudys mistakes and the 
misleading information they gave  him. So I agree with the adjudicator that they should 
compensate him £100 for the trouble and upset they caused him and that they should  
correct his insurance record. They should  do this by clarifying that they should have settled 
the fault claim on a 50/50 basis and should  have  paid only 50% of the other drivers costs,  
and amend the record to show the correct  costs. They should also give him a letter 
explaining this that he can give to future insurers. And if Mr M has paid Markerstudy  his full 
policy excess, Markerstudy should also refund him half of that, to reflect his 50% liability.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Amend internal and external insurance databases to record that the fault claim 
against Mr M was a 50/50 liability spilt, that Markerstudy should only have paid 50% 
of the recorded costs  to the other drivers insurer, and to show  that correct amount of 
costs that they should have paid.
Give Mr M a letter that he can give to future insurer  explaining  Markerstudys mistake 
as above 
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for his trouble and upset
Refund to Mr M half of any policy excess he has paid, plus interest at the simple rate 
of 8% per year from the date he paid the excess to the date they make  the refund. If 
HM Revenue  & Customs require  them to take off tax from this interest. Markerstudy 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7349115