K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that the car supplied to her under a hire purchase  agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality.  
background
Miss B acquired a used car on 8 June 2018  using a hire purchase  agreement with Blue 
Motor. The car was acquired  from a dealer (the dealer) and the finance agreement  with 
Blue Motor  was sold through a broker (the broker). The car had covered around 84,000 
miles  when  Miss B acquired it. Miss B said she started driving the car around  2-3 weeks 
later. 
When she started driving the car Miss B said she noticed a noise and also that the car 
jumped sometimes when taking off from a standstill position. She took the car to a third party  
garage (the garage) which  was affiliated to the manufacturer of the type of car Miss B had 
acquired. Miss B also said the key fob needed to be reprogrammed. The garage reported a 
number of other problems  including with a side brake bulb and centre exhaust clamp which 
Miss B paid to have  fixed. She said the garage reported other issues with the car also and 
that the car would fail an MOT. She said she was told by the warranty company that none  of 
the issues reported by the garage were  covered  under  warranty.  
Miss B complained to Blue Motor. It liaised with the broker  who arranged for an inspection,  
from Company S, of the car. Blue Motor said the report from Company S confirmed there  
were no faults with the car and no defects  were found to suggest the car was unfit for 
purpose at the point  of sale. Miss B wasnt happy with this so she brought her complaint to 
this service. 
The investigator didnt  think there  were  sufficient grounds to uphold the complaint. Miss B 
wasnt satisfied so asked  for a final decision  from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss B but having  done so I wont be asking the business to do anything 
further.  
In hire purchase agreements the finance  provider,  in this case  Blue Motor,  becomes the 
owner of the car, and is subject  to the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  The law says that goods 
supplied should  be of satisfactory  quality.  I must  take account of relevant law when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable. So I must  consider whether  or not the car was of satisfactory 
quality when Miss B acquired it at the point of sale. In doing  so I must also take account  of 
the cars  age, mileage  and known history at the time of sale.  
Miss B initially reported that she took the car to the garage early on in the agreement 
because it was jumping  when taking off and making  a noise while  driving. The garage  
completed a number of repairs  at that time and also highlighted other issues with the car 
during its health  check report. 
Its not unusual  for a garage, particularly affiliated  to the manufacturer,  to carry out a general  
health check on a car when a customer asks for their car to be repaired. And a health check 
Ref: DRN72498862on a car of this age and mileage would likely uncover a number of wear  and tear repairs  
needed. A few weeks after Blue Motor had issued  its final response letter, Miss B took the 
car to the garage again for another inspection. Further issues were highlighted including but 
not limited to shock absorbers. Its not clear to me how these issues directly related to Miss 
Bs complaint that the car jumped sometimes. 
Blue Motor  provided  comments on these  issues and in summary said the suspension 
components met the minimum MOT standards but accepted the car would benefit from 
upgraded shock absorbers to improve car handling.  But it also noted there was an advisory  
repair advice on the MOT  at the point of purchase that the rear suspension  shock absorbers 
were approaching the end of their working  life. As the investigator explained advisory issues  
do not necessarily mean the car was unsafe  or inherently faulty. 
The inspection that Blue Motor commissioned from Company S did not include a test drive, 
which its possible may have established  whether there was a jump in the car when  moving 
and a possible cause,  though I cant say for certain.  Miss B has said she booked  the 
appointment for 13 August.  But she was contacted  by Company S and informed the 
inspecting engineer had a double  booking and asked if the inspection could be done  the 
following morning, on 14 August at 8.00am. Miss B said she had an appointment to attend at 
9.40am and said she was told the inspection would be quick. 
The report  says:
A judder on pulling away could not be assessed  as the owner  had a prior 
appointment preventing an extended road test.
Blue Motor  doesnt  have  a record of the double booking and queried why Miss B would  
organise an inspection  when she already had an appointment to go to. But Miss B said the 
engineer was late for the inspection as evidenced by a text message received by her at 
7.28am. 
 re inspection will be later eta 9-9.15 due to traffic. 
He arrived at 8.55am.  So it does seem  that the inspection was cut short  because  the 
engineer didnt have enough time.  
I asked Blue Motor if it would allow another inspection of the car in order to assess its 
performance during  a test drive. It agreed  provided it could be done by the same engineer 
who had completed  the original inspection so that he could reference the previous condition  
of the car. I believe this to be a reasonable request. 
Miss B refused a second inspection of the car. She said she wasnt  happy with the first 
report and with her current health condition this wasnt a good time. Miss B also said there 
was no one she could  ask to assist her. We asked  Miss B if she would agree to an 
inspection later when  she was more on top of things and she again refused. She said she 
didnt want another  inspection  and that she had done enough  to identify the issues  with the 
car.  
Where evidence is missing or contradictory,  as is the case  here I must base my decision on 
what I believe is most likely. 
Ref: DRN72498863I agree  with the investigators findings  that the other  outstanding issues appear to be as a 
result of reasonable wear and tear due to the mileage of the car  excessive play in a front 
mount, worn  shock absorbers, excessive  play with a wheel bearing.
Miss B is concerned that she has been  made  out to be untruthful and that this situation  has 
caused her a great deal of stress and anxiety, especially with a very young family and her 
health condition.  She said she has kept up repayments despite  not using the car and has to 
rely on others to drive her around. I do understand Miss Bs concerns and I appreciate she 
must be frustrated by this situation. I would also like to reassure her that I am not disputing  
her version of events.  My role is to be fair to both parties and impartial. 
Blue Motor  has agreed to a second inspection  and our service  offered to delay this 
inspection due to Miss Bs health condition. Miss B hasnt accepted that. Company S is an 
independent company. Miss B said she wasnt happy with its report but that doesnt 
necessarily mean it was wrong  or lacking  in independence. Theres no guarantee a second 
inspection by any company would establish  that the issue  relating to the car jumping on 
moving would  have meant the car was unsatisfactory at the point of sale.  But without 
another inspection  that Blue Motor  has agreed  to and weve  suggested could be delayed  I 
dont believe  it fair and reasonable to ask Blue Motor to take the car back or otherwise  
compensate Miss B. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7249886