K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr C have complained about poor service from Thomas Ferrie  LLP (TF) in 
relation to a mortgage application. Miss M, whos dealt with the complaint throughout, says 
that TF had been advised that she had been in a Trust Deed (a type of arrangement where  
creditors agree to accept  a fraction of the debt theyre owed,  in order  to avoid the debtor 
going bankrupt). But nevertheless TF advised  her to continue  with a mortgage  application  
with a lender she knew would  not accept a Trust  Deed.
To settle  the complaint Miss M and Mr C want TF to compensate them for the stress  and 
inconvenience caused by its deliberate bad and incorrect advice. They  say that TF did not 
do this in error but knowingly  told them to proceed knowing they wouldnt meet  the criteria. 
They also want an assurance  that TF will not to this with other clients.
background
In 2018 Miss M and Mr C took advice from TF about  a mortgage to enable  them  to purchase 
a property. TF recommended  they apply to Virgin Money (VM)  for a mortgage. On 9 May 
2018 Miss M and Mr C were  given a Key Facts Illustration (KFI)  for a mortgage of £130,000, 
with a purchase price  of £150,000. A request for a decision  in principle was submitted by TF 
to VM on 11 May 2018. This was accepted. 
On 11 June 2018 Miss M and Mr C contacted  TF, as theyd found a property they wanted to 
buy. The purchase price  was £145,000  and they needed a mortgage of £135,000. A new KFI 
was produced for a mortgage with VM, and on 18 June 2018 a full application was 
submitted.
On the evening of 20 June 2018  Miss M contacted  TF. She explained that her solicitor  had 
alerted her that an historic Trust Deed had shown  up on a search. This was the first time 
shed been aware this might be an issue. TF said it would check with VM whether it would 
still agree  to lend and to continue with the application at that point. 
Miss M says that, after this call, she looked on VMs website and noted that it would not lend 
to anyone who had ever been subject  to a Trust Deed. Miss M says that she then went 
online and got a decision in principle with another lender. At 10pm she then left a message 
with TF to withdraw the application, which it did on the next working  day, 21 June  2018.  
Miss M and Mr C were later able to complete the mortgage with the new lender.
Miss M says that shed asked TF to find her and Mr C a mortgage for which  they met the 
criteria, and they failed at this. Miss M and Mr C complained.  Miss M said that TF told her to 
continue with the application,  even  though  it ought to have known the application couldnt 
have succeeded.
TF didnt uphold the complaint.  It said that it hadnt been aware until the evening  of 20 June 
2018 that Miss M had credit issues. They were  instructed to withdraw  the application before 
being able to discuss this with VM.
Miss M and Mr C complained to us. Miss M says that she dreads to think what would have 
happened if she hadnt intervened herself.  For example  the mortgage could have been  
withdrawn on moving  day, with the consequent effect on the property chain, mail re-
direction, removal vans  and her son starting  at a new school. Miss M says that she and Mr C 
were not affected  financially,  but she is now being  treated  by a doctor for panic attacks due 
Ref: DRN70063162to the stress of moving  to a new area.  So Miss C claims her health has been affected 
because of what she says is TFs greed for commission.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  Miss M 
disagreed with his findings. Miss M says she had a number of telephone calls with TF about 
the Trust Deed and that she and Mr C were  never  asked about past credit  issues by TF. 
Miss M says that TF has been dishonest about this because  it knows shes unable to prove 
this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
Its unfortunate Miss M didnt mention the Trust Deed to TF sooner. Although Miss M says 
this was discussed in several phone calls with TF, there is no evidence  to support this. I also 
think its unlikely TF would have submitted the application to VM had it been made aware  of 
Miss Ms previous credit problems at the outset. Im not persuaded TF didnt ask about  
Miss M and Mr Cs credit history at the initial interview, as this would affect the pool of 
available lenders. And I dont think it was unreasonable  for TF, when called out of office 
hours, to say that it would  check the position  with VM concerning the Trust Deed. As things 
turned out, Miss M and Mr C withdrew  their instructions before TF was able to do this.
Im glad Miss M and Mr C were able to get a mortgage with another lender. Moving  house  is 
a stressful experience, and Im sorry Miss M has been so badly affected by moving to a new 
area, to the extent  that she needs medical treatment. But Im not persuaded TF can be held 
responsible for the stress moving to her new home  has caused Miss M.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7006316