K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs D for accident, sickness, and unemployment 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £121.25 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. The benefit was split equally 
between Mr and Mrs D, so if only one of them claimed then it would pay about £60 a month.  
At the time,  it cost £7.19 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs D was employed  as a bookkeeper. She has told us she was not entitled to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying the mortgage should she have 
been unable  to work.  It is likely  Mrs D would have been entitled to statutory redundancy 
pay. Mrs D has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mr D was employed in sales. He has told us he was not entitled to any sick pay and didnt 
have any other means of repaying the mortgage  should he have been unable  to work. Mr D 
was entitled to redundancy pay which is likely to have been  no more  than the equivalent of 
six weeks pay. Mr D has said he was in good  health. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed on 6 March 2002. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN71865392The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in December1998before  the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN71865393Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN71865394-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Lloyds has provided  a copy  of 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application. Theres a separate  section  for PPI and although the 
copy isnt very clear I have been  able to compare  the section to a better sample  copy. I can 
see that it offers Mr and Mrs D a clear  choice about the PPI and theres  a tick in the box to 
say they wanted it. They  could have  ticked a different box to decline it. Theyve  also chosen 
how they want the benefit split. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs D agree that advice was provided during this sale.  This means 
Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. It seems  Mr and Mrs D cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting  so many years ago. The adviser  had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr and Mrs D would  
have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the 
policy did not fully meet their needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds 
considered whether Mr and Mrs D had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  Mr and Mrs D would not have received any 
sick pay if they were unable to work due to illness, their redundancy benefits were 
likely to be limited and they didnt have any savings they could fall back  on. The 
Ref: DRN71865395policy would have helped  Mr and Mrs D manage the consequences if either or both 
of them  were unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs D.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ds employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  have affected their ability to claim. While Mr D 
had experienced medical conditions many years  before the sale they would not have 
been excluded  from cover given the time that had passed.   
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for, it still provided  useful  cover given Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  the policy still provided 
valuable cover given  the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments  relating 
to their home and the potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs D have been 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
either of them  was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN71865396information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ds. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
D. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D  suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs D would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
Ref: DRN71865397wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs D applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs D would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
reasonable to think they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment  if both of them claimed)  were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that the policyholder  had 
consulted or received  treatment from a medical  practitioner in the 12 months  before 
the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more  
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds, and excluded  
claims for psychiatric and mental  health  conditions;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if the 
policyholder wasnt  a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs D were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest either of them wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  
 neither of them had any pre-existing medical  condition that would have  been  excluded 
from covers and they were both in permanent employment. So, I still think  they had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN71865398I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr and Mrs D might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs D from taking out the policy, in their circumstances they still 
had some good reasons to take it out.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs D would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs D have been unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs D would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs D found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN71865399Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2021.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN718653910
Ref: DRN7186539