K821x#15Complaint
Ms W complains as a director of F, a limited company,  that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited, trading  as Cashplus (Cashplus) closed Fs account without giving a reason and 
hasnt returned  the funds  in the account. 
Background
F had an account with Cashplus. Cashplus wrote to F giving notice  it was closing its 
account. The account was then closed  on 28 August  2018.  Cashplus said the balance in the 
account would be refunded within 30 days. On 26 September F contacted Cashplus, as it 
hadnt received  the funds from the account. Cashplus advised a cheque would be with it in 
seven to ten days.
F complained in October 2018.  It said it had been  assured  a cheque was on its way, but no 
funds had been received. This meant it had been without funds causing inconvenience. 
When it contacted  Cashplus calls were  ended without reason and staff members  were not 
helpful. Cashplus responded  to the complaint on 18 October 2018. It said its finance team 
should have been instructed to send a cheque within 30 days of the account closure, but this 
hadnt happened, and F was given incorrect information when  it called to chase the 
payment. In recognition of its errors and delays Cashplus offered F £150  compensation. It 
advised the paperwork had been sent to the finance  team, but it may be another 30 days  
before F received the cheque for the account  balance. Cashplus didnt respond to Fs 
complaint about  the service provided  during telephone calls.
F was unhappy with Cashpluss response  and brought a complaint to this service. It said 
there was no explanation  of why the account  was closed, why money was not returned 
immediately and why staff wouldnt engage  with it and terminated calls.
The investigator reviewed  the complaint and upheld it in part, He initially  said the terms and 
conditions of the account allow Cashplus to close the account without giving a reason, and 
£150 compensation was reasonable. F asked the investigator to review the fact funds hadnt 
been returned and pointed to the fact that since it brought the complaint to this service 
Cashplus had issued  a cheque. But the cheque was payable to the limited  company and 
theyd been unable to open an account with a cheque clearing facility, so had no way of 
depositing it. 
In a second opinion the investigator said F had contacted Cashplus to explain it hadnt been 
able to cash the cheque but didnt receive  a response. Cashplus said F would have received 
an automated reply asking it to contact customer services as it didnt service accounts by 
email. But the example  Cashplus sent didnt say this and instead said it was investigating. 
The investigator asked  Cashplus  to pay an additional £100 compensation to F to reflect  the 
lack of response and further delay in returning Fs balance. The investigator accepted 
Cashplus couldnt transfer Fs balance but suggested it contact Cashplus to organise 
sending a cheque  to a director.
Cashplus didnt accept  the investigators second opinion. It said F should have done more  
than issue one email  and that its automated  response would have directed F to customer 
services. F also rejected  the opinion. It said an additional £100 compensation wasnt  
sufficient to compensate  it for the poor service and lack of funds for such  a lengthy  period of 
time. 
Ref: DRN79743712After the investigators  second opinion F contacted Cashplus  to arrange for an alternative 
cheque to be sent, but Cashplus wouldnt engage  until the complaint with this service was 
finalised. As both parties remained unhappy the complaint was passed to me to reach a 
decision. I was minded  to reach  a different outcome  to the investigator  so I issued a 
provisional decision on 4 November 2020.  My findings were  as follows:
Closure of the account
I appreciate that the closure of Fs account has caused inconvenience. The terms and 
conditions of the account allow Cashplus to close the account on giving notice, and there is 
no contractual requirement for it to give a reason. The terms and conditions  of the account 
say,
12.6 (b) Subject  to giving  You 60 days  notice,  We have  the right to terminate a Card  that 
has been issued  and/or close  an Account.
Cashplus gave appropriate  notice, so acted in accordance with the terms of Fs account. But 
this isnt the only thing I need to consider in determining whether Cashplus  treated F fairly  
and reasonably when it closed the account.  F has suggested Cashplus might  have acted 
unfairly in taking the decision to close its account. Its Fs belief that the closure is motivated 
by its political views.  Be that as it may, Ive found nothing  to indicate Cashplus wasnt  
entitled to take the steps it did in deciding to close the account. 
Call handling
F has referred to poor call handling and to calls ending just as Cashplus was about to 
provide a code  that would have allowed the transfer  of its funds. I asked  F for call recordings 
and have matched  these  to Cashplus log. Ive been  provided with six calls and none of them  
refer to a code. Cashplus hasnt provided the dates of the calls and says it cant do so, but Ill 
summarise what  was discussed with Ms W:
Call 1  Request  to increase limit on account, but Cashplus was only able to deal with 
general enquiries at the time because  of a system problem. 
Call 2  Voicemail request to call back in response  to a letter from third party.
Call 3  Request  to increase the limit on the account   a form was completed during the call.
Call 4  Request  for confirmation of the date the account was due to close.
Call 5  Query about a payment followed by a discussion about what  happens to funds when 
the account is closed a couple of days later. Cashplus advised a cheque would be sent in 
the name of F. Ms W asked if there was any way the funds  could be paid to her and was told 
there wasnt. The advisor made a request to transfer  the funds, but no guarantee was given. 
Cashplus were asked  what would  happen  if F was unable to cash the cheque and was told 
there wouldnt be much more Cashplus could do.
Call 6  Ms W advised the account  was closed about a year before and a cheque  was 
issued that F couldnt cash. She said theyd found a way to deal with this but needed a 
further cheque  to be sent. Cashplus  agreed to ask for the last cheque to be cancelled  and a 
new cheque issued, that would take around  30 days, possibly longer. 
Ref: DRN79743713Having looked  at Cashplus log it appears  I havent  been provided with all calls. For 
example, Cashplus log refers to a call when Ms W said she was bringing a complaint to this 
service and hung up, but I dont have  this call. I also havent been  provided  with the 
September 2018 call Cashplus referred  to in its final response letter. Cashplus says it has 
provided all calls that are available though. It says other calls either dont  exist or there was 
an issue with its third-party service providers platform.
In the calls Ive listened  to there  is no record of calls terminating when a code is about to be 
given, or of any possibility  of a transfer  of funds rather than a cheque  made  out to the 
business  other than the one Ive referred to above  when the adviser agreed to see if a 
transfer was possible. Ive asked  Cashplus if it would  ever have given a code to allow the 
transfer of funds and it says it doesnt  provide codes for transfers.  So I dont consider I can 
ask Cashplus to make a further award to F in respect of the customer  service provided 
during calls. I do consider Cashplus should  have responded to the complaint about  the calls,  
which was made towards the end of 2018,  before now though. 
Return of funds
Cashplus has relied on section 12.2 of their terms and conditions  in relation to the return  of 
funds following the closure of an account.  Section 12.2, which concerns rights and 
obligations, says:
You have the right to:
(ii) close the Account at any other time. To do this You can write by letter  or email  or call 
Customer Services. Note: We will wait 10 days for transactions to be processed. Once all 
transactions and fees have been deducted, any balance on Your Account will be returned  to 
You, subject  to You having provided satisfactory confirmation of Your  identity and address 
(where applicable).  As this process  may take up to 30 days  You may prefer  to withdraw 
funds by ATM or by making  purchases. A cancellation fee will apply (see Fee Summary) 
unless i) the cancellation occurs 6 months  or more  after opening Your  Account, ii) We have 
terminated Your right to use the Account  or iii) the Account closure  follows a change  in these 
Terms and Conditions.
This section  refers to what  happens when F closes the account. The terms and conditions 
dont specifically cover  what  happens  when Cashplus  closes  the account or how funds  will 
be returned. In any event, as I said above,  this service considers whats  fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Cashplus has explained that it didnt offer a transfer  of funds when an account  was closed at 
the time and only returned funds by cheque, although this has recently changed. Be that as 
it may,  Id expect a payment services  provider such as Cashplus could quite easily  have 
made arrangements to transfer funds to another account in the name of the limited  
company. In the circumstances, and given what I say below about customer service,  I 
consider Cashplus  should now transfer  the balance in Fs account to an account specified  by 
F in the exact  same business  name  as the original account with Cashplus. As F was without 
funds that should have  been returned  Cashplus should also pay interest  on the balance of 
Fs account  at the rate Ive set out below. 
Customer service
Ref: DRN79743714Fs account  was closed  on 28 August 2018.  Cashplus  should have returned Fs funds by the 
end of September 2018, but a cheque wasnt issued until 22 November 2018. F wrote to 
Cashplus on receipt of the cheque in January 2019.  It referred to letters  dated 5 and 19 
October and 19 November 2018  (sent by email)  and previous calls and asked for funds to be 
transferred to another account. F explained  it had been unable to open an account  with a 
cheque clearing facility.  Cashplus  say it didnt receive letters  dated 19 October and 19 
November, but as the emails were properly addressed, I cant accept that. It did receive  the 
letter of 5 October but didnt reply. 
It's clear F asked  Cashplus  to pay funds to a named  account on a number of occasions, in 
calls and in writing. In the calls Ive listened  to Cashplus explained this wasnt possible, but it 
agreed to find out if it could be done.  Fs letters went unanswered. But it wasnt  until 2 
January 2019  that F explained it couldnt cash a cheque,  and the reason for this. Cashplus 
didnt respond  to this letter either but say F would have got an automated response directing 
it to Cashpluss customer services department and F should have contacted  them. I dont 
agree with Cashplus. Ive seen the automated  response, which  says Cashplus will complete  
its review and get back to F as soon as possible.
F didnt chase Cashplus  when they didnt  receive a response to the January 2019 letter  as it 
had brought a complaint  to this service. Other letters had also gone  unanswered. 
Summary
I consider Cashplus  has not provided  the kind of service  F could reasonably expect. It didnt 
send a cheque  with closure funds  in a reasonable timeframe, gave incorrect  advice about 
returning the balance of the account, didnt  respond to part of Fs complaint relating to 
telephone calls, failed to respond to correspondence  and didnt  help F recover the funds 
from their account after it was closed.
As a result, F has been deprived of its funds  for twenty months after it made Cashplus aware 
it was unable to cash a cheque. Cashplus should rectify this by paying the account balance  
to F by electronic transfer without further delay. Cashplus should also recognise the 
difficulties caused  to F due to this deprivation by paying interest on the sum in question from 
the point the balance should have been released;  that is, 2 January 2019. This should be 
calculated at the rate of 8% simple  per year as is commonly  used in court  judgments.
F is a limited company so cant suffer from stress, but its clear it has been inconvenienced 
by Cashplus  poor service as it has had to call and write to Cashplus to pursue the return of 
the account balance. In recognition of this Cashplus should pay F £200 (inclusive of sums 
already offered). 
I gave each party a month to respond to my provisional decision.  I received an automated 
acknowledgement from Cashplus but nothing  more. F didnt reply to my provisional  decision 
at all. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive had no substantive  responses  
from either party with any new information or arguments theres no reason for me to change  
the findings I set out in my provisional  decision (and set out above  in the Background 
section).
Ref: DRN79743715My final decision
My final decision is that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, should:
-Pay F the account balance  by transferring it in accordance with the receiving account 
information specified by F, subject to F supplying  confirmation of its ownership of the 
receiving account;
-Pay interest on the above figure at the standard rate of 8% simple  per year from 2 
January 2019  to the date of payment;  and
-Pay F £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2021.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7974371