K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that a hire purchase agreement under which  a car was supplied  to him was 
mis-sold to him by Barretts of Canterbury  Limited.
background
Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement with a finance provider which  he electronically 
signed in January 2018 for a used car to be supplied to him. He says that he was able to pay 
for the car in full but that he was persuaded by the dealer  to take the car on finance. He says 
that the dealer offered a contribution of £1,500 if he did so which was interest free and that 
hed have to keep the agreement for six months to benefit from the contribution. But he says 
that after seven  months  he realised  that he was paying more  that hed expected. He 
complained to the finance company and to Barretts. He wasnt satisfied with Barretts  
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Mr J entered into the finance agreement with the sole intention of benefitting from the full 
£1,500 deposit and that had it been  clear that interest wouldve been  incurred, reducing this 
contribution, he wouldnt  have entered into the finance agreement. So he said that a fair 
resolution was for Barretts to refund  to Mr J the difference between the six months interest  
paid of £688.94 and one months interest on the finance agreement.  
Barretts has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in 
summary, that: it didnt  tell Mr J that the agreement had to be in place for six months 
because thats  not the case;  the deposit  contribution isnt funded by the dealer but by the 
finance provider  and is retained  even  if the finance agreement  is cancelled immediately (as 
is stated in the terms of the finance  agreement); and it didnt benefit from the loan being  
retained for six months  so it would make  no sense for it to say that it had to be.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to Barretts on 21 January 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Mr J electronically signed the hire purchase  agreement  in January 2018 and he 
agreed to be legally bound by its terms. The agreement shows  that the cash price  of 
the car was £23,000 from which the deposit  of £10,750 was deducted so the amount 
of credit provided was £12,250. That was to be repaid by 17 monthly payments of 
£198.09 and a final payment of £10,664 and the rate of interest was 10.9% (APR).
Barretts had offered Mr J a contribution of £1,500 if he took the car on finance so that 
the price of the car would be lower.  But it says that it didnt contribute the £1,500  as it 
was contributed by the finance  provider.  £750  of that contribution  was applied to 
reduce the price of the car from £23,750 to £23,000  and the other £750 was applied  
to the deposit  which  is shown on the agreement as £10,750 but only £10,000 of 
which was received from Mr J. As the contribution was used to reduce the amount of 
credit by £1,500  no interest wouldve been payable on that amount. So Im not 
persuaded that its likely  that Barretts wouldve said that the contribution of £1,500 
would be interest free for six months.
Ref: DRN77188672And because it was a price reduction, Mr J benefitted from it immediately he signed  
the agreement. There  was no requirement for him to keep the agreement  for six 
months to benefit from the dealers contribution and there was no benefit to Barretts 
in Mr J keeping the agreement for six months.  So Im not persuaded  that its likely 
that Barretts wouldve  said that Mr J needed to keep  the agreement for six months.
Ive not been provided with any documents from that time to show that Mr J was told 
that the dealer contribution would be interest  free or that he had to keep the 
agreement for six months. The account statement shows that Mr J settled the 
agreement in August  2018  and that he made  seven monthly payments of £198.09 
and then a repayment of £11,791.88  (and there was an early payment rebate of 
£853.02). Mr J has used the agreement, hes had the use of the money  that he 
wouldve used to pay for the car from January to August  2018  and he benefitted from 
a £1,500 reduction in the price of the car because he entered  into the hire purchase 
agreement.
Mr J may have  misunderstood what was said to him before he entered into the 
agreement. But Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show  that the 
agreement was mis-sold to him. And I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Barretts to pay any compensation to Mr J  or 
to take any other action  in response to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr J or Barretts, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
Mr J has responded to my provisional  decision in detail and says, in summary,  that:
the car was over priced  compared  to other cars of the same specification  and when  
he said that he wouldnt pay that much for the car it was suggested that he could 
bring the price  down  by £1,500 by using finance;
the dealer  paid £750 and the finance provider paid £750 so his deposit was £10,750;
the dealer  kept leaving off its £750 and tried to sell him a body  treatment instead  of it;
he was pressurised into the agreement;
he had more than enough money in his account to pay for the car in full  as shown 
on his bank statement;
the dealer  benefited through him taking out finance and having it for as long as he 
did;
hes spoken to many people since then who also hadnt  realised  that they could pay-
off the finance  straight away; and
the investigator had seen that the dealer  had admitted to telling him that he had to 
wait for six months otherwise it would  add the £1,500  on to the final total.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including Mr Js response to my 
provisional decision. Having done  so, Im not persuaded  that I should  change my provisional 
decision. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Mr J was unfairly  pressurised  
into signing  the agreement or that the agreement was mis-sold to him. I consider that the 
agreement clearly sets out the terms that had been  agreed for the supply  of the car and that 
Mr J received the benefit of the £1,500 contribution. I dont consider that theres  enough 
Ref: DRN77188673evidence to show that Barretts told Mr J that he needed to keep the agreement for six 
months to benefit from the £1,500 contribution.  
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Barretts  
to pay any compensation  to Mr J  or to take any other action in response  to his complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7718867