K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained Post Office Limited  didnt give him €530 which he bought on 15 August 
2017.
background
Mr B went  to a local Post Office within another outlet in August 2017. He wanted  to buy 
£1,000 worth of euros. He intended to buy half of that amount on a Post Office  Travel  Money 
card and get the rest in cash.  
He believed he was told by the cashier that hed made a mistake and loaded all £1,000 
worth of euros onto the card. He paid £1009.44 using his debit card. He was due to go on 
holiday just after this so was in a bit of a rush and didnt check  any further.
When he was away he found  the card was only loaded with €530.  He had to buy more 
currency and borrow some money from his mother. When  he returned from holiday he went 
back to the Post Office branch and complained. The Post Office  told him that the tills 
balanced so they felt hed been given the cash hed requested.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our adjudicator  reviewed all the 
different evidence, including the receipts  of the transactions as well as what the Post Office 
had told us. On balance he felt Mr B was right and hed been led to understand £1,000  worth  
of euros  was on his card.  He asked  the Post Office to refund £506.45 and add 8% simple 
interest to that amount.
The Post Office were  unhappy with this outcome. They explained there  was a financial limit 
of £750 on their Travel  Money card so it was never  feasible to load £1,000  onto it. They 
asked an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator explained his thinking in two views dated 8 January and 28 March  2019. Ive 
considered the same  evidence he has as well as Mr Bs testimony and the further comments  
made by the Post Office.
My role is to come to a conclusion based  on all the evidence I have. I can take into account 
what may be missing, and may have made any decision easier,  if I feel the lack of that 
evidence is crucial to the outcome of the complaint.
So here I have  to say I believe it is. Mr B has rightly asked whether there was CCTV 
evidence of what happened when he was buying  his euros. As this is not a Post Office, we 
asked the owner  of the location  whether  we could access  the CCTV. Unfortunately  this was 
no longer available.
I appreciate the Post Office has told us they were  never in a position to get the CCTV 
evidence because of data protection requirements.  As they would have  been  reviewing it for 
a lawful  reason, Im not sure I agree but I accept that is their policy.  However the decision 
Ref: DRN74633352theyve taken not to try and locate any CCTV evidence means I cant  see whether Mr Bs 
story stacks up. And that he didnt receive the euros  he paid for.
Like our adjudicator, I agree Mr B received two receipts  for two different purchases of euros.  
These receipts suggest Mr B received €530 in cash and a similar amount was loaded  onto a 
Travel Money card.  Im in no doubt  there  was a technical completion  of these transactions 
but I cant see why Mr B would lie about what  he was told. If he was in fact given both the 
cash and the Travel Money card  particularly as he would  have thought the transactions  
were being  observed  by CCTV.
Ive seen Mr Bs bank statement. This shows that when he went  on holiday he had to take 
out more euros as well as borrow some money  from his mother to cover him going 
overdrawn. I dont  think this would have happened if either Mr B had been given €530 in 
cash or, as I believe he understood, had this amount loaded to his card.
I accept what the Post Office has told us that no member of staff would be able to load 
£1,000 of foreign currency onto a Travel  Money card.  But Mr B wouldnt have known this and 
would have no reason to doubt what he was being  told. Im sure the cashier apologised 
appropriately for the mistake theyd made in apparently loading all of Mr Bs money onto his 
card.
On the balance of probabilities and taking all the evidence  into consideration, I dont believe 
Mr B was given €530 in cash as he requested. Nor was this loaded onto his Travel  Money  
card (as this wouldnt have been feasible). I will be asking the Post Office to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Post Office Limited to:
Refund Mr B £506.45 for his missing  euros;  and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 17 August 2017  when this amount 
debited his account  until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019..
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7463335