K820x#14complaint
Mr W says St Andrews  Insurance plc mis-sold him and the late Mrs W a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  I will refer to the late Mrs W as Mrs W in my decision. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2003  around  the same  time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the PPI policy through  the post.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs W for accident, sickness  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. St Andrews has told us the policy would repay  
£123.71 in total a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage balance and related costs in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £7.50  a month.  The policy had a maximum 
term of 60 months.
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a paint sprayer. He told us he was entitled to statutory 
sick pay, and had less than six months  savings. I also think its likely  he was entitled  to 
statutory redundancy pay. Mr W has said he suffered  from a medical condition many years  
prior to the sale. 
The evidence from the sale suggests  Mrs W was employed. Mr W cant  remember what she 
was working as or what her employee  benefits wouldve been. He says she had some  
savings she couldve relied on to make her repayments. Mr W initially  said Mrs W had a 
medical condition  at the time of sale but later clarified that she was in good health  at the 
time. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs W about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN71018602The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN71018603The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN71018604St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs W were sent 
information about the policy after their mortgage had already started. Ive seen a copy  of Mr 
and Mrs Ws mortgage repayments cover acceptance form.  On it some details of Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage have been  entered, along  with details of the PPI policy including the 
benefit split and monthly premium repayments. There  is also a direct  debit  section and Mr 
and Mrs W have both signed and dated  it. Ive also seen a copy  of the insurance schedule  
and welcome letter  sent to Mr and Mrs W which refers to them as having chosen  mortgage 
repayments cover... 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr W disagrees. Looking at what  
happened when  St Andrews  sold Mr and Mrs W the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if either  
Mr or Mrs W were unable  to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. I also note that the PPI acceptance form states the monthly mortgage 
repayments benefit, the monthly cost of the PPI and maximum  term of cover.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate  and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ws. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN71018605-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrews  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs W would  have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done things properly. 
Mr W says they would not have taken it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of either Mr or Mrs W being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost and benefit was clear - and it was 
clear when the cover would end. But the information  about other aspects  of the policy,  such 
as the limitations  and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Ref: DRN71018606The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs W werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs W be 
unable to do their own job, any similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs W were  eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest they wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr and 
Mrs W were in permanent  employment  and the policy didnt exclude existing medical 
conditions. So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Mr W has said he turned 65 while the PPI was in force and at that time he stopped being 
eligible for the cover. The policy would end when Mr W permanently retired.  In 2003 the 
state retirement age was 65 for men, so its possible thats when he was planning on retiring. 
But Mr W was 56 when he and Mrs W took out the PPI, so I think its more likely than not 
theyd have thought theyd still get some value out of having  the PPI, as it would have 
covered both Mr and Mrs W for a reasonable  period  of time. 
The policy would only cover claims for unemployment if Mr and Mrs W had been  
continuously employed for a minimum of six months.  Mr W says hed been in his role for 10 
years at the time. Mr W thinks  Mrs W had been in her employment  less than 12 months  
but due to the length of time thats  past he understandably cant  remember  the details of her 
role or exactly how long shed been  employed for. He hasnt mentioned any gap in her 
employment - so theres no suggestion  Mrs W wouldnt be able to claim  for unemployment  
from the outset. So, I still think  they had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs W might  reasonably  have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs W from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs W, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do their 
own job, any similar job or any paid work which their experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified them to do, it might have played into their thinking about  what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs W were  unable  
Ref: DRN71018607(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs W be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr or Mrs W were  made redundant, or unable  to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs W would  have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs W found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he and Mrs W would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he and Mrs W would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN71018608That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
St Andrews  statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs W, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything 
had happened  as it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019. 
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7101860