K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for her mortgage.
background
Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1996. Mrs C paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage payments in case 
she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
There doesnt seem to be any debate that Mrs C consented to buying the policy, but her 
representative says she was given the impression she had to take it to help get the 
mortgage. Neither side have all the original  documents  from the sale,  which  is 
understandable given  just how long ago it was. But Ive thought  carefully about whats  most 
likely to have happened based on the information  I have.
I do have a copy of Mrs Cs mortgage  application  and mortgage offer. I can see that applying 
for PPI was not part of the mortgage  application,  and it had no indication that she had to buy 
a policy. Her offer made no mention of any requirement to buy PPI either. Meanwhile, 
Lloyds internal loan assessment form detailed how the bank decided whether to offer her 
the mortgage or not, and taking PPI was not part of the criteria.
From what  Ive seen of Lloyds sales process from the time, the PPI wouldve been applied  
for and paid for separately  to the mortgage  itself, rather than as something that needed to be 
included  though Lloyds  dont have a copy of Mrs Cs particular PPI application because of 
the time thats  passed. But Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Mrs C was misled  
or unfairly  pressured  into buying PPI here, nor have  I seen any wider problems with Lloyds 
sales process from the time. So I think its most  likely that Lloyds made Mrs C aware she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Ref: DRN78552672Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  while  Mrs C said 
she had good  work  benefits, the PPI covered  her more comprehensively, especially when 
her work benefits reduced to just half pay  a drastic reduction in income. And while  I dont 
doubt Mrs Cs family  wouldve been  willing to help,  there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed.  And this mortgage  was Mrs Cs sole responsibility  I dont 
think it wouldve been suitable for Lloyds  to have recommended she rely on someone else to 
pay it. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mrs C fell behind on her mortgage payments, she 
risked losing her home. So I think the PPI couldve been useful for her in protecting her 
home and giving some peace of mind.
Mrs C said that at the time of the sale,  she had a medical condition  which  might  not have 
been covered.  But from what  her representative  has told us, it doesnt seem to have affected 
her ability to work, it was controlled, and it wasnt something she necessarily thought was 
serious. Indeed,  when  Mrs C first complained  she said she didnt consider herself to have 
any health problems  around the time.  Its worth  bearing in mind that this PPI policy  was there 
to cover extended time off work. And from what Mrs C has told us, it doesnt  sound like her 
condition was likely to ever cause that, nor that it was likely to have been a key concern for 
her in choosing  whether  to buy PPI.
Mrs Cs representative said her condition  couldve got worse,  and we only know  in hindsight  
that it didnt. But by the time of the sale, Mrs C had been living  with her condition for a 
number of years, so she wouldve had a good  idea about how it affected her. And the policy 
only excluded claims for her condition for the first two years,  whereas  her mortgage was a 
long-term commitment. Further, Mrs C couldve claimed for time off for other conditions, or if 
she lost her job. And she wasnt affected  by any of the policys other main exclusions or 
limitations. So I still think the policy wouldve been  useful for Mrs C in her circumstances.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs C about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  I dont think Mrs C was significantly affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve  really been useful for her in case 
something went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how much it would pay out in a 
claim and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And if Mrs Cs circumstances changed,  
she could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. So overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely  to have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7855267