K822xcomplaint
Ms O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave  her incorrect information about  how much to 
pay towards her credit  card each  month. To resolve  her complaint, Ms O would like a refund 
of the interest  she paid between June 2017 and March 2018. 
background 
Ms O has a credit card with Lloyds and used to repay her full balance  each  month. But in 
May 2017 her payment  was returned  unpaid. Ms O says she spoke  to Lloyds and discussed 
how much  to pay towards her credit  card each month. Ms O said shed arrange a regular 
payment of £100  and was told that would be fine. 
In March 2018 Ms O complained because she owed  more  than shed expected despite 
having made regular payments towards  the credit  card. But Lloyds wasnt able to trace 
the call where Ms O discussed  her payment options.  And Lloyds said itd sent Ms O regular 
monthly statements  and charged interest  in line with the credit card terms. Lloyds offered 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill but Ms O didnt accept. 
Ms O referred her complaint to this service and an investigator looked at whatd happened. 
But they felt Lloyds had dealt with Ms Os complaint fairly. And they thought Lloyds had 
acted in line with the account terms so didnt ask it to take any further action to resolve 
Ms Os complaint. As Ms O didnt agree  the complaints been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
Ms O says she discussed her payments with someone at Lloyds in May or June 2017 and I 
dont doubt thats the case.  Ms Os May 2017  direct debit payment was returned  unpaid and 
its reasonable to accept  she called to discuss arrangements around that time. But Lloyds 
doesnt have a copy of the call recording.  So I need  to decide whether its more likely  than 
not that Lloyds  told Ms O that paying  £100 a month would be enough to repay  what she 
owed. 
Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Ms O that advice.  I say that because by the time Ms O 
restarted making payments to her account  at the end of July 2017  she already owed over 
£1,300. So even if she were making  monthly  payments  without interest, £100 a month  
wouldnt have been enough to clear  the whole balance in 12 months.  And I think  the person 
Ms O spoke to at Lloyds  wouldve known that she would have to interest  by leaving a 
balance outstanding on her card. 
From what  Ive seen, I think theres been a genuine misunderstanding  here.  I dont doubt 
that Ms O checked she was making  a payment that was enough to cover her minimum 
amount and thought thatd clear more  of her outstanding balance than it did. But I dont think  
thats because  Lloyds provided  unclear or misleading information. 
And I have  to take into account that Lloyds also sent Ms O regular monthly statements 
setting out her spending and the level of interest she was paying. I know  Ms Os confirmed 
Ref: DRN78950482she didnt check her statements but I think its reasonable  for Lloyds to act in the belief card 
holders do check important information  thats sent to them. And if Ms O had found the 
arrangement shed put in place wasnt in line with what shed been told she couldve raised it 
shortly after she started  making £100 payments in July 2017. As Lloyds didnt hear from 
Ms O about the £100 payment she was making  until March  2018 there was no way of 
knowing it wasnt what she wanted. 
I also need to explain that Ms O continued  to spend on the account  in the months  after she 
setup her £100 payment which substantially increased what she owed and the amount of 
interest she needed to pay. Given in some months Ms O was spending significantly more 
than the £100 payment she was making  I think its reasonably clear the debt wouldve been 
increasing rather than reducing. 
Ms Os said that the person she spoke with didnt fully explain how interest works. But I 
wouldnt expect Lloyds  to explain how interest  is applied to an outstanding balance each 
time it speaks with a customer  about  their payments. The terms explaining  how Lloyds 
applies interest to the credit card were set out by the investigator so I wont  repeat them 
again here. But Ms O accepted the credit card terms when she took the card out so I think  
Lloyds reasonably thought she was aware  of how interest is calculated  and added to a debt. 
I know Ms O feels her complaint  wasnt  investigated  properly as Lloyds didnt find a record of 
her call. But complaint  handling in itself isnt something  we can look into. And I dont think 
the failure to find the call has harmed Ms Os complaint. The fact Lloyds sent Ms O regular 
detailed monthly  statements and that its applied  interest in line with the terms she agreed  to 
are the key reasons for my decision not to uphold this complaint.  As Ive not found any 
evidence of an error by Lloyds  Im not telling  it to take any further action.  
Lloyds has offered £100 to resolve Ms Os complaint and I think  thats fair in all the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £100  Lloyds Bank  PLC has 
already agreed  to pay. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision  before 10 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7895048