K820x#14complaint
Mr B and his children have complained that he was given unsuitable advice by N.J. 
Leeson & Co. to invest in a MetLife Trustee  Retirement  Portfolio - within  the Secure 
Capital Option  - due to its fixed term nature. As he was drawing retirement benefits, they 
consider that this was an inappropriate type of investment to hold.
Mr B and his children have also complained that he hasn't received the ongoing service 
from the business that he has been paying  for.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 August 2020, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I thought it should be upheld. The content of that decision, which begins 
with the background to the case, is set out below:
Mr B owned a business with his two children, and the business  premises  was held within a 
joint Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP), which N. J. Leeson  & Co. set up for Mr B and 
his children, with a 50% stake  owned by Mr B and 25% each owned by his two children.
In August  2016,  as Mr B had built up a reasonable amount of cash  within the SIPP, N. J. 
Leeson & Co. recommended that he invest in the MetLife Trustee Retirement Portfolio. An 
investment of £42,000 was made,  from which an initial adviser charge of 3% was taken. The 
nature of the investment  was that capital  was guaranteed and that any growth was locked 
in on a daily basis. At the end of the ten year period, the capital with growth would be 
returned to the investor.
Whilst ownership of the funds remained  split between Mr B and his two children,  N. J. 
Leeson & Co. has said that the SIPP rules required the investment to be held in just one 
name  and that Mr B was the most  appropriate  life assured for the investment.
N. J. Leeson & Co. told Mr B in a letter dated 5 August 2016 that he could take an income 
from the investment  at any time,  based on the highest locked in value, but he was advised  
not to as his income needs were  being  met from the rest of the Leeson & Co. said it was 
focussing on capital  growth with the investment.
The application was submitted on 25 August 2016 to the SIPP trustees, who then sought 
clarification that the investment was to be held in Mr Bs sole name. N. J. Leeson & Co. 
confirmed that it was and the money  was invested on 11 October 2016. As at November 
2019, the investment of £42,000 had a cash in value of £43,632.
In 2018, Mr Bs children  queried as to why the investment  was only held in Mr Bs name, and 
that they had thought that they would all be investing in the plan.
In response, N. J. Leeson  & Co. said that there must  have been a misunderstanding  as to 
how the investment  would be arranged and that it had always been intended to be in Mr Bs 
sole name. It said that it would, however, be prepared to arrange further investments for the 
SIPP money allotted to them and that it would so at a reduced adviser fee.
However, agreement  on the matter  couldnt be reached and, ultimately,  complaints were  
raised by all three parties  two of which,  from Mr Bs children, are being  dealt with 
separately. This complaint  deals with the issues  raised specifically about Mr Bs relationship 
Ref: DRN77954162with the business, which as set out above,  includes concerns relating to the suitability of the 
investment and the services received for the fees which  have been paid.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought that it should be upheld. He said the 
following in summary:
He noted that N. J. Leeson  & Co. had said that it provided  advice to the officers  
of the company and that no personal  information had been disclosed by the 
individual members  within  the SIPP. It had further said that the ongoing fees were 
in respect of services  provided to the company.
The investigator therefore considered whether personal advice had been given to 
Mr B. In doing so, he noted that the letter issued in August 2016 was addressed  
to Mr B rather  than the company,  and that it included commentary as to why the 
investment was suitable for him.
He also noted  that the cost of the advice was solely covered by Mr Bs pension  
funds rather than across the SIPP funds - or as might otherwise  be expected if 
the advice was being given to the company, billed  directly  to that company.
The investigator therefore concluded that advice was being given to Mr B in a 
personal capacity  as a beneficiary of the SIPP, rather than as a director of the 
company or trustee of the plan.
But he also observed that no fact find had been completed before the advice was 
given  and he was therefore  unable  to determine whether  the advice was 
suitable on the basis of Mr Bs circumstances and objectives.
However, the investigator  said he was aware that Mr B was already in income 
drawdown and it was therefore questionable  as to whether the recommended 
plan, with its fixed term, would  be suitable.  This was especially so, given that a 
large part of the SIPP  comprised of an illiquid  commercial property and the 
likelihood, therefore, that the liquid funds would be required in the shorter term.
No client agreement had been  submitted by N. J. Leeson & Co. which  outlined  
what services  would be provided  and the fee which would be taken in respect of 
that. The investigator thought that this contravened the requirements as set out 
by the regulator in the conduct of business.
The investigator cited a performance review  as an example of an ongoing service 
which might  attract a fee, but he didnt the think the available  evidence supported 
the position that this had happened  here.
Although the investigator had seen documentation relating to rent from the 
company to the SIPP, he wasnt persuaded that Mr B had been receiving a 
service in respect of his SIPP. And he reiterated that the advice was personal to 
Mr B rather  than to the company.
With regard to the suitability of the investment, although the lack of a fact find or 
risk profile made it difficult to determine,  the investigator said that hed spoken  
with Mr B, whod confirmed that he was receiving  an income from the SIPP, his 
basic state pension,  and earnings from the company.
Mr B had said that he didnt have  a definitive date as to when he would stop 
working, as this was dependent  on his health.  However, he didnt have any 
savings to supplement  his income and he said that he wouldnt have been 
prepared to take any investment risk.
The investigator concluded that Mr B would realistically have been categorised  as 
a cautious investor, as he would have needed to take a small risk for the sake of 
capital growth in drawdown to ensure that the funds werent exhausted  over time.
Ref: DRN77954163As such, he thought Mr B would, with suitable  advice, have invested differently.  
And although he didnt know precisely what Mr B would  have done, he 
considered that a comparison with one of our benchmark indices  reflecting a 
cautious attitude to investment risk  was a suitable means of determining  
whether any redress was due to Mr B.
The investigator also said that the fees should  be refunded,  with the addition  of 
8% simple interest  from the date that they were paid to the date of settlement. A 
further
£250 should be paid to Mr B in respect of the upset  caused by receiving 
unsuitable advice  and the lack of service provided.
N.J. Leeson & Co. disagreed with the investigators conclusions, however. It said the 
following in summary:
Mr B had submitted  his complaint directly to this service, rather  than to N. J. 
Leeson & Co. in the first instance. As it hadnt  had an opportunity to assess  the 
complaint, 
N.J. Leeson & Co. therefore questioned  the validity of the complaint.
The MetLife investment wasnt a ten year plan.  It was an open ended  plan with 
options on the 10th anniversary,  and guaranteed lock-ins on a daily basis.  The 
level upon which income was based  could only go up, not down.
The investment  therefore offered very good  terms  for an individual approaching 
retirement  in fact so good that it had now been withdrawn from sale.
N. J. Leeson & Co. disagreed that there had been no ongoing  service  provided. It 
had supplied  the investigator  with many emails which demonstrated how it was 
involved in the regular running  of the SIPPs, and that ongoing  advice and services 
including regular  valuations  had been provided.
The annual fee of 0.5%  was fair for the ongoing service provided,  and N. J. 
Leeson & Co. wasnt prepared to refund  these.
As agreement hasnt been  reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Im considering here is that raised for Mr B  as Ive said above, those raised 
by his children are being dealt with separately. So Ill firstly address N. J. Leeson  & Co.s 
comment that the complaint wasnt submitted to it before it was referred to this service.
Under our rules,  a consumer is able to submit  a complaint to this service  directly. But the 
business must nevertheless be given an opportunity to respond.  And I can see that, in an 
email from the investigator  dated  13 November 2019, he confirmed that the complaint form 
submitted to this service  had been  forwarded  to N. J. Leeson & Co. on 20 March 2019.  The 
investigator said that, if this was the first that N. J. Leeson & Co. had known of the complaint, 
it would  have been given a further eight weeks to consider and respond to the complaint.
He noted wed received  a letter dated  15 April 2019,  and that we also had a copy of the 
response letter sent to Mr B. But he wished to provide N. J. Leeson & Co. with a further  
opportunity to comment on the complaint  points  raised, and provide further information, 
Ref: DRN77954164before he assessed  the merits of the complaint.  He also confirmed that Mr Bs complaint and 
those from his children would be dealt with as separate complaints.
Im satisfied, therefore, that N. J. Leeson & Co. has been given sufficient opportunity to 
respond to the complaint and that it is one which we can consider.
To address the merits of the complaint, Id firstly echo some  of the commentary  made by the 
investigator around the lack of fact finding  or risk profiling which would and should have 
been part of the normal process of providing regulated advice. And as with the investigator,  
and for the same  reasons  already set out above,  I think on balance that this was advice  
given to Mr B in a personal, individual capacity, rather than to the company.
Its therefore quite  difficult to determine  with certainty whether the recommended investment 
was suitable for Mr B, but in the absence of the usual documented records  of Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives, Ive based  my assessment of suitability on what we do know  
about him at the time.
Mr B was already in income drawdown,  but was also reliant upon income from other 
sources, including the company earnings. So the SIPP wasnt his only means of providing  
income, and there was also a regular amount in the form of rent for the commercial  property 
entering the SIPP. And Ive assumed that it was predominantly  this income stream which 
had contributed to the accumulation of funds in the SIPP bank account which were available 
for reinvestment.
Mr Bs future plans were  unclear, and it seemed  to be the case  that total retirement would be 
dependent on, amongst  other things, his state of health. But when that did happen, its 
reasonable to presume  that he might need to depend more  on the SIPP  for income.
And so I do think a measure of flexibility and access to funds was required by Mr B  and I 
agree with the investigators observation that the principle asset in the SIPP was the 
commercial property, the value of which  might  not be immediately realisable. So Ive then 
considered whether the recommended investment was consistent  with Mr Bs likely 
objectives.
Having done so, Ive noted several key features.  The investment was primarily intended for 
capital growth, hence the chosen fund  the secure  capital option,  rather  than the secure 
income option. It was designed as a ten year investment for Mr B  and although I note
N. J. Leeson & Co.s comment that it was open ended and simply had options at the ten year 
anniversary, its interesting to note that, at the time of submitting the application, it said that
I confirm  that the investment  is to be a 10 year term as per the illustration.
I dont think this makes any practical  difference  whether or not it was designed as a ten 
year investment, it nevertheless had the possibility of withdrawals with the capital secure  
guarantee applicable  at the ten year point. If it could  continue beyond  that, this suggests to 
me a flexible benefit, rather than a disadvantage.
Furthermore, and perhaps most pertinent to Mr Bs circumstances at the time, even though  
the capital secure  option has been  chosen,  this did still allow  for withdrawals throughout the 
period of investment. The illustration provided at the time said that You can start, stop or 
vary your withdrawals at any time, but this illustration assumes you will not take any 
withdrawals.
Ref: DRN77954165And although no withdrawals were  assumed,  there was a dedicated column within the 
illustration for this feature.
Ive then considered  the actual asset split of the investment to determine whether, although 
in a secure capital  environment,  it provided reasonable prospects for growth. I agree with the 
adjudicators comments  that, although  a likely cautious investor, Mr B would still have been 
seeking some growth to mitigate the effect of any future income withdrawals.
The investment was structured so that it contained a secure asset  and a growth  asset. 
Put simply, as the names suggest, the former was designed to provide the capital protection 
element and the latter to provide the growth. The growth underlying asset  was the MetLife 
Blackrock Global Growth Fund, and the secure  assets were  three,  five and ten year 
MetLife Fidelity Corporate Bond fund investments.
Given that asset split, with the dual objectives  of capital security and growth, I dont think  this 
type of investment allocation was necessarily unsuitable for a low risk investor such  as Mr B. 
And it further  provided the option  for withdrawals  if Mr B needed them. So I dont intend  to 
uphold that aspect of the complaint.
Turning then to the matter  of the fees charged, I think this is less straightforward. I dont think  
it could reasonably be argued that disclosure of the fee charged for the MetLife  investment  
wasnt made to Mr B - it featured  quite prominently in the illustration. And the amount paid to
N. J. Leeson & Co. for advising on and arranging the investment doesnt seem to me 
particularly high. So Ive then considered the annual charge  for overseeing  the SIPP,  which 
might reasonably include services such as monitoring cash  balances and determining 
whether new investments  ought to be made.
And on the face of it, this is what appears to have happened here.  The adviser recognised  
that there  was a significant cash balance and recommended that an investment be 
established in Mr Bs name to obtain  better returns than those available  from deposit 
accounts. Furthermore, the actual percentage of fees doesnt appear to be unreasonable, at 
what I understand was 0.5% pa of the value of the SIPP. In my experience,  this is on the 
lower side of fees which might typically be charged for the ongoing services of a financial 
adviser.
So I dont  intend  to uphold that aspect of the complaint either.
Summary
Overall, for the reasons  given, a fair and reasonable analysis of whats  happened  here 
doesnt currently persuade me that either the investment was unsuitable for Mr B - or that for 
the fees hes paid, hes received a lower  standard of service that he might otherwise expect.
As such,  I dont propose to uphold this complaint. I should reiterate, however, that the 
investment here was specifically allocated to Mr B, and I havent considered  the complaint 
aspects which are covered within the separate claims raised by his children.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Neither party has made further representations  in response to the provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN77954166my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that, for the reasons set out above, this complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and his 
children to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7795416