K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has unfairly  
charged him refurbishment costs for a car he returned  when  he voluntarily terminated (VT) 
the financial agreement. 
background  
In March 2015 Mr C entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  for a new car with 
VWFS. 
In January 2018 Mr C asked VWFS about  voluntarily terminating the agreement  as he 
wanted to purchase  another  car. VWFS told Mr C that as he had paid at least  50% of the 
agreement he could  terminate it at any time with nothing  further  to pay. It also sent him a VT 
information pack which set out the process for returning a car. And said that the VT form 
would need to be completed  and returned  as soon  as Mr C was ready to return  the car. 
VWFS said that once it received the completed VT form it would contact an independent 
company who would arrange a date to inspect the car. This company would prepare  a report  
on its findings which would be provided to Mr C. The collection  of the car would be set for a 
different day to allow Mr C, if he chose, to have  any damage fixed  by an approved  repairer 
before the car was collected.
Mr C decided to order a new car and when he had a delivery  date he completed the relevant 
VT form and sent it to VWFS. The VT form said that the car was to be collected from the 
dealership and provided the dealerships address. 
Mr C left the car at the dealership at the end of March 2018  and says he heard nothing  more 
until he received  an invoice for £476.75  in April 2018. He queried what the costs were  for 
and VWFS said it was for damage found on the car. It said there was a dent on the right 
hand front door, a gouge in one of the tyres  and that two of the wheels had been subject to 
unsatisfactory repairs. 
Mr C complained to VWFS about  the charges. VWFS removed the cost of refurbishing one 
of the wheels as it said there was insufficient evidence  of the damage.  But Mr C remained 
unhappy and complained  again to VWFS. He said that it hadnt followed the procedure set 
down for returning  the car. He said he hadnt seen the inspection report  nor been given an 
opportunity to repair the car before it was collected. Mr C said that he had taken out tyre and 
wheel insurance  on the car and this would  have covered most of the cost of the repair to the 
gouged tyre. He said it was unfair  he would now have to pay for the full cost. Mr C also said 
that the unsatisfactory repairs had been carried  out by the manufacturers approved  garage  
and it was unfair for VWFS to now charge for that.
However, Mr C said he accepted that there  was a dent to the door and that had he arranged 
a repair  himself it would have probably  amounted  to the refurbishment cost.  Mr C said he 
would pay that charge.
Ref: DRN79214252VWFS provided Mr C with a copy of the inspection report. It also reduced the outstanding 
refurbishment invoice  by removing the repair costs for the remaining wheel that had been 
unsatisfactorily repaired. It said it was satisfied that the remaining charges of £390.35 (for 
the dent and gouged tyre) were  due as that damage was beyond  fair wear and tear. 
VWFS said the inspection report hadnt been  provided to Mr C on the day of inspection 
because this had been undertaken at the dealership.
Mr C was unhappy at VWFSs response and complained to this service.  Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld.  She said that looking at the 
BVLRA guidelines which were used to assess the car she was satisfied that the damage  to 
the tyre and the dent in the door were both items that were  chargeable as not being fair wear  
and tear.
Our adjudicator said that Mr C hadnt been contacted by the third party company regarding 
suitable dates  for inspection  and collection because the VT form stated the car was at the 
dealership. She said she didnt think  VWFS had done anything wrong in regards to this as it 
had correctly notified the third party company about  where the car was. And the inspection 
and collection had been carried out at the dealership as Mr C had requested.
Our adjudicator said she thought it would have  been  reasonable for Mr C to have called  the 
dealership and asked about  when the car was going to be inspected and collected.  As he 
could have then made sure he had an opportunity to fix any damage that was listed following 
the inspection.  
Our adjudicator said that she noted Mr C had asked  the insurance company to inspect the 
tyres prior to the car being  left at the dealer. The insurance company had told Mr C the tyres 
were fine and didnt  need changing.  She said she didnt think VWFS could be held at fault for 
this and if Mr C wanted  to pursue that further he should contact the insurance  company 
directly.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  He said that VWFS hadnt followed  its own 
procedure regarding the inspection and collection and this was unfair.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr C has accepted  that the car had damage when  it was inspected in regards  
to the dent to the door and the gouge to the tyre. It also isnt disputed that this damage  was 
more than fair wear  and tear.
What Mr C is unhappy about is that he didnt  get the opportunity  to have  the car repaired 
before it was collected. He says this was unfair  because the process should have afforded 
him that chance  and he had taken out an insurance policy  that covered damage to tyres that 
would have covered most of the cost of the repair to the tyre. He says VWFS was aware he 
would leave the car at the dealership and shouldve told him he would lose this right of repair 
if he did so.
Ref: DRN79214253Ive seen that Mr C has accepted  that he was unlikely to have been able to have the dent to 
the door repaired for less than the refurbishment cost and he agreed to pay that amount  at 
the start.  His argument has always been  that the charge for the tyre was unfair. 
I can appreciate why Mr C left the car at the dealership when he collected  his new one but 
this can affect the way the inspection and collection of the old car works. The independent 
company, once notified that an agreement has been  terminated, have to make all the 
necessary arrangements  for inspecting and collecting the car with the dealership and not 
with Mr C. 
I dont think I cant  reasonably say that VWFS is at fault if Mr C wasnt notified of the date of 
the inspection  as VWFS wouldnt  have been  aware of it either.  I also dont think  VWFS are 
responsible for not warning Mr C that he may not be told of the date as it wouldnt know how 
these arrangements were  to be made.  VWFSs responsibility was to pass  the form with the 
details of the whereabouts of the car to the independent company and it did this. 
As Mr C wasnt present when the car was inspected he didnt  receive a copy of the 
inspection report.  But again I dont think I can reasonably  say this was the fault of VWFS. I 
think its likely that the dealership would  have signed the report  once the car had been 
inspected.
Mr C was aware of the process so I think it would have been reasonable for him to check  
with the dealership what was happening about the car being collected.  Ive seen that around 
two weeks after Mr C had collected his new car hed had to return  it to the dealership for an 
issue with the seatbelts to be looked at. When he took the car in hed enquired about his old 
car and was told that it had already been collected. But Im not surprised that the car was no 
longer at the dealership  by then as I think its reasonable to expect collection will take place 
relatively quickly at the end of an agreement.
I appreciate Mr C is frustrated about  the tyre and wheel insurance policy.  Mr C says the 
insurance company  had told him the wheels and tyres were fine before  hed returned  the 
car. But the photographic evidence taken when the car was inspected shows the gouge in 
the tyre so I dont  know why the insurer gave  that advice. I agree with our adjudicator  that 
this isnt the fault of VWFS and Mr C, if he wishes to pursue this, will need  to raise a 
separate complaint directly with the insurance company.
Looking at the evidence I dont agree that VWFS has acted unfairly in raising the invoice for 
the refurbishment costs.  It has reduced that cost on review by removing the charges for the 
damage to two wheels  and Im not asking  it to do more. For the reasons given Im not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN79214254my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7921425