K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc returned a direct debit of £75 unpaid on 
his account when his mobile  phone app showed that there were sufficient funds in his 
account. He isnt happy with the service  that he received and would like compensation for 
this. 
background
On 28 August 2018 at 1.08am, Mr C checked  his bank account balance on his mobile phone 
app. He saw that a direct debit payment of £75 had been taken off his balance available.  
On 31 August 2018, he called NatWest because he found that the direct debit of £75 had 
been returned unpaid by the bank. He raised a complaint  about  this. 
Natwest looked into the complaint and wrote a final response letter on the same  day. They 
said that they had decided  not to pay the £75 because there was also a debit card payment 
of £5.75 outstanding. Paying the £75 direct debit  wouldve taken him £5.26 over his 
arranged overdraft limit. Although this was a small amount, NatWest said that they were  
entitled to return  the direct  debit unpaid. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this. He said that his mobile phone app hadnt shown the 
outstanding payment of £5.75. He thought  that the app should have been  more up to date 
and felt that he had been misled. 
He brought the complaint  to us. Our adjudicator investigated the complaint. Regarding  the 
app being up to date, he said that it wasnt for us to change current  banking standards.  This 
was the job of the regulator. 
He also found  that NatWest  had made  no error in returning the direct debit unpaid  so they 
shouldnt have to pay compensation. He found that Mr C was responsible  for managing his 
account.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has now come  to me.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr C wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that the bank has done 
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs bank  account set out when NatWest will allow an 
overdraft and what charges are payable. They can decide whether  someone is entitled to an 
unarranged overdraft too. In this case, they saw that a payment  of £5.75 was to be taken 
from Mr Cs account. Bearing this in mind,  they realised that paying the direct debit would 
take the account into an unarranged overdraft which,  according  to their terms and 
conditions, they dont have to allow. I think that they were entitled to return  the direct debit 
unpaid.
Ref: DRN76896562Im aware that NatWest made  no charge for the unpaid direct  debit.  I can see nothing  to 
persuade me that Mr C was charged  in any other  way for the payment of £75 not going 
through. So, I dont  think  that Mr C has suffered  financially  because  of the direct debit not 
being paid. 
I have considered whether NatWests app shouldve  been  more up to date. NatWest has 
explained that this is something that they are looking into. But I agree with the adjudicator 
that banking standards are a matter  for the regulator, not us. 
I think that it was for Mr C to be aware of what was coming out of his account.  He, no doubt, 
was aware that he had made a purchase  for £5.75. Although this wasnt  shown on his 
mobile phone app, I think that he was responsible for ensuring that it was taken into account. 
So, I dont think that NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think that National Westminster Bank Plc has done 
anything wrong. So, I wont be asking them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7689656