K821x#15complaint
Miss B acquired new car in early  July 2018,  by means of a 48 month  conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc. She complains that her car was not of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. She wants Vauxhall  Finance to accept rejection of the car.
background
In late August 2018, Miss B complained  to the supplying dealership that her cars 
infotainment system was faulty. The dealer inspected her car, but it could not find any faults.  
In early November 2018, Miss B called out a breakdown  service.  She said her cars  braking 
system was faulty. The breakdown mechanic inspected her car, but could not find any faults. 
In mid November 2018, the dealer inspected her car again.  On this occasion,  a fault was 
found in the infotainment system, but no faults were found in the braking system.
Miss B referred her complaint to Vauxhall  Finance.  It arranged for a suitably accredited 
organisation to independently inspect her car, which took place in early February 2019. The 
inspector was unable to find faults  in either the infotainment system or the braking system. 
Based on the independent inspectors report, MBFS told Miss B that it was unable  to uphold  
her complaint. 
Miss B then referred her complaint to us. Vauxhall Finance provided documentary  evidence 
to us. Miss B provided video evidence to us, which she said showed the infotainment  system 
was continuing  to malfunction.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part:
He was persuaded that there was a fault in the cars infotainment system
He felt that repair works should  have been  undertaken,  when  the fault was identified  
in November 2018
But, in the absence of supporting evidence, he could not confirm that there  was a 
fault in the cars  braking system
And, in these circumstances, he felt that rejecting the car was not justified
Our investigator recommended that Vauxhall Finance should:
Arrange for the cars infotainment system to be replaced, at no cost to Miss B, and at 
a manufacturer  approved dealership of her choice
Arrange for Miss B to be provided  with a courtesy car, if required, while these repairs  
were being carried  out
In compensation  for loss of enjoyment  of her car, refund to Miss B 10% of all the 
monthly payments  (required under her agreement), received  between the date (in 
late August 2018)  when she first reported the infotainment  system  fault and the date 
of satisfactory completion of these repairs 
Vauxhall Finance  disagreed with our investigators conclusions and recommendations. It felt 
Miss Bs video evidence  was inconclusive, and it drew attention to the several inspections 
where no evidence  of any faults  in her car had been  found. But it offered a one month 
payment holiday  at the end of her agreement, as a gesture of goodwill.
Ref: DRN74719312Miss B also disagreed  with our investigator. She provided further video evidence of the 
infotainment system fault, and (more recently) video evidence of the braking system fault.
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
.  
my finding
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Vauxhall Finance  has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means  that a reasonable 
person would have regarded  the goods  as satisfactory,  taking  into account all relevant 
circumstances, which for cars include age and mileage travelled.  But there are limits to 
Vauxhall Finances  responsibilities. In particular,  faults must be present or developing at the 
point of supply.
On the one hand, Miss B has provided several  pieces  of video evidence. 
Two videos  show the infotainment system operating in a problematic  way  although it is 
unclear whether this relates to the system itself, or to the radio signal being received by the 
system, or to some other problem external to the system. A third video was not long enough 
to provide meaningful evidence. And so I find this evidence inconclusive.
Shortly after Miss B acquired  her car, it was examined by the dealer.  It was also examined  
by an independent inspector in February  2019. Both examinations  did not identify  an 
infotainment system malfunction. 
Miss B also provided a video that strongly  appears  to show a braking system fault. But this 
video was not received until January 2020. And for Vauxhall Finance to be responsible for 
this fault, it would have had to be present or developing at the point of supply in July 2018.
In addition, examinations  by a breakdown mechanic  and the dealer  in November 2018, and 
by an independent inspector in February  2019, did not identify a braking  system malfunction.
On the other hand, Miss B first complained about  the braking  system fault in 
November 2018,  only four months after she acquired her car. And an examination by the 
dealer in November 2018  did identify an infotainment system fault.
As the above  shows, evidence in this case appears  to be contradictory.  Although  it is 
possible that both faults are intermittent, which means they might not have been spotted on 
some occasions. 
But there is a difference between the two faults:
There is positive evidence of an infotainment  system  fault from November 2018, 
relatively soon after the point of supply
The apparently  strong  video evidence of a braking system fault dates from 
January 2020,  some  considerable  time after the point of supply
Ref: DRN74719313And so, on balance:
I find that an infotainment system fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply
I am unable to find that a braking system  fault was similarly present or developing    
The above  means that I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for similar  
reasons. I also agree  with our investigators  settlement recommendations that: 
The cars infotainment  system should be replaced, in the way our investigator  
specified 
Miss B should be compensated for her loss of enjoyment of the car, because  of the 
infotainment system  fault, again in the way our investigator specified
In the current circumstances of this complaint,  I think that rejection of the car would not be 
an appropriate remedy  although, if the repairs to be undertaken are unsuccessful, such  a 
remedy might need to be considered. 
I sympathise with Miss B. But I need to emphasise to her the limits of Vauxhall  Finances 
responsibilities: that is, for faults  present or developing at the time she acquired her car. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Vauxhall Finance plc:
1.To arrange for the cars infotainment system  to be replaced, at no cost to Miss B, and 
at a manufacturer approved dealership of her choice
2.To arrange for Miss B to be provided  with a courtesy car, if required,  while  these 
repairs are being carried out
3.To refund to Miss B 10% of all the monthly  payments  (required under her 
agreement), received between 29 August 2018 (when she first reported the 
infotainment system  fault)  and the date of satisfactory completion of these repairs
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7471931