K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have asked her 
to pay additional  rental charges for a car they were unable to collect  from her at the end of 
her lease period.
background
Mrs F took receipt  of a new car in October  2015.  She financed  the deal through a four year 
hire agreement with VWFS but returned the car early in 2018 when she was unable to drive  
due to ill health.
She made the last payment towards  her agreement on 21 August 2018 but VWFSs 
collection agents werent able to collect and inspect the car until 20 September  2018. 
However, when they arrived the car wouldnt start. Mrs F offered to jump start the car if 
theyd wait a moment but the inspectors refused.  They  inspected  the car and left.
Mrs F called to try to re-arrange collection but VWFS werent able to do that until 19 October  
and since that time theyve asked Mrs F to pay £531.99 additional hire costs  for the 
additional 57 days she was in possession of the vehicle.
Mrs F complained about this. She said the delays had been  caused by VWFSs inability to 
collect the vehicle  on time and she would  have been  happy  to have had it collected at any 
time after shed  made her last payment. But VWFS said the charges had been properly 
applied so Mrs F referred her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator agreed with Mrs F. She didnt think the delays were of her making and she 
didnt think it was fair to charge for delays that were due to the collection company not being  
available to attend. So she thought it would be fair and reasonable for VWFS to remove  the 
charge in its entirety.
But VWFS didnt agree. They said it was Mrs Fs responsibility to insure the car could start 
when their collection agents attended  and they insisted the delays  were  therefore caused by 
Mrs F. They said it wasnt fair to blame  them for the collection agents delays and they 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs F so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN75561722Mrs F acquired her car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement  is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I dont think its fair or reasonable  for VWFS  to charge Mrs F for the additional period the car 
was in her possession. I say that because:
its clear Mrs F was happy to have  the car collected in August but she had to wait 
until late September for a collection agent  to be free. This wasnt  her fault
once the initial collection failed I think its fair to suggest she couldve expected a new 
collection to be arranged  immediately. But she had to wait for a month and again, 
that wasnt her fault. It was because the collection agent wasnt available
I understand that the terms of the agreement ask for the car to be in working  order.  
But I dont think it was unreasonable  for the agents to allow Mrs F to jump start the 
car. They were, after all, going  to inspect it. And that wouldve taken time: enough 
time for the car to be successfully started.
and even if it was unreasonable  to expect the collection  agents to wait. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mrs F to pay for a delay. Shed already been waiting for a 
month.
Ive thought about whether I shouldve  expected  Mrs F to take the car back  herself as 
it had already been inspected in the September  visit. But Mrs Fs medical condition 
meant she couldnt drive the car and I can therefore understand  her predicament. I 
think it would therefore be reasonable to expect VWFS to be more sympathetic  given  
the exceptional circumstances they are now aware of
So Im asking VWFS to waive the additional  hire charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to waive the additional  hire charge theyve applied of £531.99.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7556172