K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  rejected the claim they made 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75).
background
In 2009, Mr and Mrs A made a cheque payment of £500 from their BOS  account to a 
business which Ill call D for membership of a holiday  club.  They also traded in their previous 
membership for £6,000.  They  later came to feel that D had misrepresented  the product to 
them and they say they never received what theyd been promised. Unfortunately, they later 
discovered that D was in liquidation as a result  of fraudulent activity.
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs A wrote to BOS  making a claim under Section 75 for a refund of 
the money theyd  paid to D. Mr and Mrs A didnt hear anything  from BOS and they had 
difficulty contacting  anyone there  to discuss their claim. So they wrote again  to complain 
about the lack of response and poor customer service. BOS  upheld the service complaint. It 
apologised that its service level had fallen below  expectation and paid Mr A £100 as 
compensation. It said it would look into the Section 75 claim.
BOS wrote to Mr A in late 2018 rejecting the Section 75 claim.  It said that Section 75 didnt 
apply because Mr and Mrs As purchase was made  by cheque. Mr and Mrs A questioned 
BOSs decision,  saying they thought the cheque payment should be covered by either 
Section 75 or the chargeback scheme. They asked  BOS  to re-investigate  the claim. BOS  
responded saying that neither Section  75 nor the chargeback scheme apply to cheque 
payments. It confirmed its rejection of the claim.
Mr and Mrs A brought a complaint  to this service. They said they have lost £6,500 and been 
emotionally affected by the situation. They want BOS to put things right by giving them  a full 
refund.
Our adjudicator thought that BOSs offer of £100  for the delay  in dealing with the claim was 
fair, so she didnt ask it to do any more on that. As to the way it responded to the claim, she 
thought that was fair also. Thats because she didnt think  Section 75 or the chargeback  
scheme applied  to Mr and Mrs As payment to D.
Mr and Mrs A were  disappointed with our adjudicators view of the Section 75 claim and 
asked for their complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  They  say they should be 
entitled to a refund as they were the victims of a scam.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information provided  by Mr and Mrs A about their dealings with D. Its 
clear theyve had a very bad experience and I appreciate their strength of feeling  about the 
situation. But Im not looking  here at the actions of D. Im only looking at how BOS dealt with 
the claim for a refund.  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A, but I dont think 
BOS has acted unfairly by rejecting their claim.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN78880592Section 75 says that, in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can be responsible for a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made  by a supplier. But some conditions have to 
be met first. And one of them is that the payment to the supplier  must  have been made on 
credit. Specifically,  the payment needs  to have been made by a credit or store card,  through  
a point of sale loan or (in some  cases) on a catalogue account.
Its not disputed  that Mr and Mrs As payment  to D was made by cheque. Thats  not one of 
the payment methods to which Section 75 applies,  so the payment doesnt have the 
protection afforded by section 75. So I wouldnt expect BOS  to provide a refund here.
Mr and Mrs A asked  whether BOS  would give a refund under  the chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is a process for resolving  disputes between card issuers (here,  BOS) and 
merchants (here, D). But it only applies to payments  made  by card,  usually a debit card.  As 
above, because  the payment was made by cheque the scheme doesnt apply. So I wouldnt  
expect BOS to provide  a refund on this basis either.
I realise Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly  about  their complaint and I sympathise with their 
situation. But I have  to be impartial, and I dont think BOS has done anything  wrong here.  
The payment made by Mr and Mrs A isnt covered by either Section 75 or chargeback. So I 
cant fairly ask BOS to refund it.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7888059