K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about the sale of two payment protection insurance policies (PPI) taken out 
in 2003. Mr S says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him the PPI. These  were  both 
single premium policies  - sold alongside  a loan in May 2003 and a loan in June 2003. (The 
second loan refinanced the first.) 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided these  policies werent  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S says he was mis-lead into thinking  the loans wouldnt be approved  without PPI. But Ive 
seen the loan agreements that Mr S signed  and they do say the policies were optional.  Ive 
also seen the sales script  that Nationwide says would have been used and it instructs the 
salesperson to make it clear that Mr S had a choice about PPI. Its possible, of course,  that 
the salesperson  didnt  follow the script but looking at this, together  with what  is on the loan 
agreements, Im satisfied  that the likelihood  is that Mr S was told he had a choice about  the 
policies. 
Mr Ss appointed representative says that Mr S cant speak English very well and that 
Nationwide took advantage of this by adding PPI to his accounts. However, Ive considered 
this and Ive thought about the fact that Mr S was able to discuss  and take out two separate  
loans with the Nationwide, so I think he understood enough English to make such decisions. 
Overall I think  its likely Nationwide made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out PPI and 
that he chose  to take out both policies  although I can understand if he cant  remember this 
now.
Mr S told us he was advised to have the PPI but Nationwide says it was never their practice 
to give advice about PPI. And it says that Mr S said no advice was given when he first 
complained to Nationwide. This makes me think its likely that Mr S is mistaken about advice 
having been given  which I can understand after such a long time. So Ive considered these 
as non-advised  sales. 
In a non-advised sale Nationwide  didnt have to check  if the policies were right for Mr S, but 
it did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide  if this type of cover was 
right for him. 
I think the costs of the policies were clear because  this information is all set out clearly in 
both the agreements. But its possible that some of the other information Nationwide gave 
Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. As I mentioned  above, Mr S has 
said that English  wasnt his first language and that Nationwide needed to be especially clear 
with him. And maybe they werent.  But thats  not enough for me to uphold this complaint. I 
say that because I think if Mr S did know all the important  details about the policies, he 
would have taken  them anyway. I say this because  Mr S was eligible for the policies. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected  
Ref: DRN78427882by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover - so PPI would have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. The PPI also provided a pro-rata refund, so he wouldve gotten a 
proportional refund  if hed cancelled either  of the policies early. 
But Mr S says that he would have had three  to six months sick pay through  his employer 
and that he had up to three months  salary  in savings. However, the policies would have met 
the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months. So if Mr S had suffered from a period of 
extended sickness, the policy would have taken  care of his payments after his sick pay had 
stopped and his savings  had run out. It also wouldve paid out on top of these  other means  
meaning he was free to use these funds for other expenses.  
So overall I dont  think either policy was mis-sold. Which means Nationwide doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But Nationwide  will pay back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premiums. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr S any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr S the extra he paid each  month on the loans because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premiums  - including  any extra  
Mr S paid if the loans  were paid off early.  Nationwide  should also pay Mr S 8%* simple  
interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7842788