K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained that hed had poor service from National Westminster Bank Plc when he 
paid in £20,000 cash. He complained because  the amount was initially recorded incorrectly  
as £17,300, then corrected. He also complained about the branch staff,  whom he said were  
racist.
background
On 27 October 2017, Mr A went to a NatWest  branch to pay in £20,000  in cash.  There was 
an error with the cash-counting machine, which jammed and initially only counted £17,300.
Theres a disagreement  about what then happened:
-Mr A said it took 3 hours to resolve;
-NatWest said the machine problem took 20 minutes to resolve.
Mr A also complained about the branch staff. He said they were racist. Theres a 
disagreement about this:
-Mr A said branch staff were racist;
-NatWest said that, before saying the purpose  of his visit, Mr A made a comment to a 
member of staff about that persons ethnicity. It also said Mr A had made  previous 
complaints along similar lines.   
Mr A complained to NatWest.
In its complaint reply, NatWest apologised for the machine counting error,  and paid Mr A £50 
compensation. But it didnt agree with the rest of Mr As complaint. NatWest said there was 
no evidence of racial  discrimination  by its staff. It said that, when Mr A had gone on to make  
a foreign payment transfer  after paying in the cash, hed insisted on seeing  one particular 
member of staff. It said this had caused a delay.
NatWests letter also said that the reason Mr A had been told that the police would be called 
if he didnt leave the branch, was that hed been  recording  conversations  without the 
employees knowledge or consent. NatWest said it would encourage customers not to 
engage in negative conversations regarding anybodys ethnicity whilst in the branch.  
Mr A wasnt  satisfied with NatWests reply and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He asked  NatWest for testimony from staff 
members whod been present at the time.  But because it had been a long time ago, many  of 
the staff had left, including the branch manager. There was no CCTV evidence,  again 
because it had taken  place a long time ago. The adjudicator said that hed gone as far as he 
could to try to get all the relevant evidence he could. Although he couldnt say for sure how 
long the delay in sorting  out the counting machine had been,  he considered £50 
compensation had been  fair.
The adjudicator also pointed out that this service cant look into issues  about  racism as Mr A 
had complained.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied. He said he didnt accept the adjudicators view and wanted an 
ombudsman decision.
 
Ref: DRN73867422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its correct that this service doesnt  make findings on whether or not the Equality Act 
2010 has been breached   in other words, whether or not either NatWests staff,  or Mr A, 
was racist  on 27 October 2017. If Mr A wishes to pursue this, hell need to consider other 
action elsewhere.
So what  Ive considered is the issue of delay in Mr As £20,000 being credited to his account, 
as a result  of the cash-counting machine jamming  on 27 October  2017.
As Ive set out above, this took place some  time ago. This means that NatWest staff have 
changed, and that any CCTV is no longer available. As I wasnt present, and theres  no 
conclusive evidence, its not possible for me to say for certain  whether or not the problem 
took 3 hours  to resolve, as Mr A says, or 20 minutes to resolve, as NatWest  says. 
I have looked  at Mr As bank statement  for the relevant period. This shows  a number of 
transactions on 27 October 2017.  This includes the credit for the full amount of £20,000, and 
also the foreign  payment transfer which Mr A went on to make after the cash deposit. The 
bank statement also shows, as stated  in NatWests reply to Mr A, that the bank refunded  the 
£34.50 transfer fee for that foreign payment transfer, which  would normally  be charged  by 
non-NatWest agents in the payment process.
Mr As bank  statement  doesnt give a time of day for these transactions, but it does show 
that Mr As £20,000 cash credit and his subsequent foreign payment transfer  both went 
ahead on 27 October.  So there was no financial loss to Mr A. 
I consider that any inconvenience as a result  of the cash-machine jamming has been  fairly 
compensated in NatWests payment  of £50. This is recorded on Mr As bank statement as 
with apologies. So I find that NatWest doesnt  need to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
13 February 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7386742