K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that TSB Bank plc agreed  a reduction in the monthly payments on her loan 
account but failed to advise her to cancel  the direct debit.
background
Miss F had a loan with TSB. In August 2018 she contacted TSB because  she couldnt afford 
the monthly repayment of £142.  As her income  had decreased, TSB agreed to lower the 
monthly repayment for a period of six months.  
The following  month, £142 was debited from Miss Fs account, so she asked her bank to 
recall the money.  Miss F contacted TSB and the direct debit was cancelled  so the full 
amount wouldnt  be taken again. Miss F asked TSB to set up a direct debit for £41, but TSB 
told her shed have  to contact it each  month  to manually amend the direct  debit instruction. 
Following communications with TSB,  Miss F received a default notice letter and eventually  
her account  was referred to the recoveries  department. She subsequently complained to 
TSB about  the fact it wouldnt amend the direct  debit,  and the distress  and inconvenience  
shed suffered as a result of what had happened. 
TSB accepted it had made an error because it hadnt told Miss F shed need to cancel the 
direct debit. It paid Miss F £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience, £50 to cover 
bank charges and £34 for call costs. It also explained that when a repayment plan is agreed 
on a loan, the account will go into arrears and will be managed by collections.
Miss F remained  dissatisfied and so she complained  to this service. She explained she 
hadnt wanted to call the bank each month  as it would  be time consuming, and she felt she'd 
end up in a dispute with staff each time that she could only pay the lower amount.
TSBs commented that although it understands why Miss F was unhappy she wasnt  told to 
cancel the direct debit  and therefore the full payment was taken,  the payments were  recalled  
and so she hadnt suffered any financial loss. Its also said that the letters  it sent in 
September asked  Miss F to contact  them to discuss the account  and that if she had, they 
couldve taken payments over the phone.
We were satisfied that the compensation TSB had offered was fair. We accepted TSB 
shouldve told Miss F to cancel the direct debit instruction and that it would be inconvenient 
for Miss F to contact TSB on a monthly basis. But we were  satisfied  that the inconvenience 
was overridden by the contractual requirement  on Mrs F to make the repayments. Finally  we 
acknowledged that there would probably be a default on Miss Fs credit file, but this was 
inevitable as Miss F had missed several  payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
my colleague.
Miss Fs explained shed  understood  TSB would lower the monthly payment on her loan 
account because  of a change in her financial circumstances. She was led to believe that 
TSB would amend the direct  debit instruction and the following month, the lower  amount 
Ref: DRN73343062would be taken from her account. During  the call Miss F was told the direct debit instruction 
would reduce automatically and then increase again  after six months. 
Miss Fs described  that she suffered unnecessary  distress as a result of her loan account 
having gone into arrears and I accept  this was a result  of TSBs failure to tell her she would 
need to cancel the existing direct debit. 
However, apart from the call and bank charges which TSB has agreed  to pay for, Im 
satisfied that Miss F didnt  suffer any financial loss. The overpayment  was recalled and the 
loan account,  which has been passed  to the recoveries department,  has had the interest 
suspended. I understand  there  will probably be a default on Miss Fs credit file but this is 
because of the missed  payments for which I dont hold TSB responsible.  
The main  issue for me to consider  is whether  the compensation TSBs offered in 
acknowledgement of its failings  is fair. I understand why Miss F wanted a direct debit set up 
in the new amount instead of having  to call and make a manual payment. But this wasnt 
possible and I dont  think the requirement  for her to call TSB each month to make  the 
payment was unreasonable because she was required to repay  the loan. 
I accept the misunderstanding which led to £142  being taken caused Miss F unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience. However, Ive considered the impact this had and Im satisfied 
that £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that Miss F will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined above I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7334306