K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint, through  his solicitor, is that INTL FC Stone LTD unfairly liquidated open 
coffee futures and options positions he held causing  him a significant  loss.
background
Mr P had opened an account with FCStone in March 2015.  As of 21 June  2017  his account 
was made  up of coffee  options and futures  positions. There was a margin  call on 21 June 
2017 and then again on 22 June  2017.  As Mr P didnt put any further  money in the account 
all his options contracts were closed  by FCStone and Mr P suffered a significant loss.
He complained to FCStone about  the closure of his contracts,  initially  personally and then 
through his solicitors. It didnt uphold his complaint. In short it said that the agreement Mr P 
had with it required immediate payment  of margin failing which is an event of default  and the 
client received a daily statement clearly showing the outstanding sum needed to support the 
transactions in his account. It said it is entitled to manage its risk appetite  and exposure to 
clients by closing out positions. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mr P was an experienced  trader and fully aware of his trading exposure and his risks 
through daily valuations and email  warnings about lack of margin.  He couldnt  shift 
his unfunded trading risk back to FCStone  because he was temporarily unavailable 
for a few hours, irrespective of the nature of the event. 
Mr P was running a significant trading loss exposure that had become a credit risk 
event for FCStone. He was in breach of the terms of his account mandate. 
He couldnt  see that FCStone had done anything wrong. It didnt have to assume the 
risks of Mr P's account as a favour  to him, or grant  any special treatment given  the 
high credit risks he was taking.
Mr P had agreed to be bound  by the account  terms and conditions  and he had to 
provide margin funds immediately upon  request.
Mr P operated an execution-only  account and was responsible for his positions,  
providing margin and any losses. Providing margin  funds wasnt an option or 
something that he could  delay  in providing.
FCStone sent him daily valuations of his margin requirements. It also sent emails  
asking for more funds  the day before closure  and early  in the morning of 22 June 
2017 and just before closure.  He had been given  sufficient  margin  warning. 
Upon margin breach FCStone could go ahead  and close all his open positions  and 
without further  notice to him.
Mr P had a difficult personal issue he was dealing  with but this wasnt  sufficient 
reason for him not to fulfil his margin requirements to sustain his positions. He held a 
very significant close out loss exposure  which was a high credit  risk. Those  losses 
could have increased still further, and rapidly.
Having an overall net credit on his account  after position liquidation wasnt relevant.  It 
was unlikely FCStone  would allow him to build up such large futures  and options  
exposure unless  he had put up some  small net funds. That didnt mean that a correct 
margin call hadnt  been made  or that he didnt  have to meet that margin  call.
The calculation of what Mr Ps losses mightve been had the positions been held to 
maturity indicating there wouldve been slightly less loss is based on hindsight.
Ref: DRN71988352It wasnt relevant  that in the past Mr P had been  in similar positions with losses and 
unfunded margin  calls, or that he had a good credit history in paying margin.  In the 
past FCStone had given him some leeway to provide margin funds to maintain his 
position exposure. But, that didnt set a precedent and it didnt have to act that way in 
the future.
It was perfectly reasonable for FCStone to allow Mr P to place further trades  under  a 
margin breach.
The solicitors didnt  agree  with the adjudicator and in short  made the following points:
A number of key points have been misunderstood, or a misleading account  of events 
has been provided by FCStone. It wanted  the ombudsman  to look at the 
documentation again with fairness  in mind in line with the ombudsmans objectives.
There are four key points for consideration; Mr Ps unblemished trading record;  his 
distressing personal circumstances; the inconsistent  and contrasting messages from 
FCStone's employees as to whether or not there was an outstanding margin  call on 
21 June 2017;  and the inconsistent and contrasting messages from FCStone's 
employees as to how our client should  proceed on 22 June 2017.
Mr P has never disputed the need  for any margin call from FCStone. It was not clear 
that there was an outstanding margin call given the mixed messages from FCStone's 
employees.
Inconsistent  messages were given to Mr P over a two day period, at a time when he 
was severely distressed; leading him to be confused as to whether or not there was 
an outstanding  margin call and what  FCStone wanted from him.
After the automated margin call on 21 June 2017  Mr P spoke to FCStone  five times 
and was allowed  to place further  trades. There was no mention of any outstanding  
margin call in any of those calls.  Previously he had been told that no new trades 
adding risk to his account would be accepted  when there was an outstanding margin  
call.
One of the trades Mr P made on 21 June 2017 increased the level of risk and 
allowing him to place that trade  was at odds with FCStones apparent  concern  
regarding his account posing  a risk to it and another example of its inconsistent 
behaviour.
There was no indication prior to 22 June  2017 that his account was at risk and, even 
on that day, he was not given more than a few hours' notice during which he 
attempted to rectify the situation.
There were  no verbal notifications prior to 22 June 2017  and on that day a voicemail  
was left on our client's phone which made  no mention of any risk to our client.  Mr P 
spoke with FCStone  shortly after this voicemail.
On 22 June 2017, the appalling mixed messages continued from FCStone's 
employees despite knowing Mr P was unavailable for a few hours.  On the one hand,  
he agreed with a broker that he would liquidate his options positions 'today'.  
However, minutes later, this agreement was breached as there was an instruction to 
liquidate all of his positions without any justification  as to the change in position. It is 
clear from the telephone recording  that the broker  who discussed the closure of the 
options positions was shocked by the change.
Statements were sent and received  on the following day with respect to closure  of 
the market, not at the end of each day as FCStone had said and the adjudicator  
accepted.
Mr P didnt  ignore  the event of default notification as the adjudicator  said.  If this refers 
to the notice itself this was responded to by Mr P on 6 July 2017 and if it is in 
Ref: DRN71988353reference to the email  sent on 22 June 2017  at 13.12 stating FCStone would not start 
to liquidate his positions, he responded almost  immediately at 13.19.
FCStone was aware that Mr P had a distressing personal issue to deal with. Despite 
this, he offered to make  an immediate payment of 30,000  Euros  and gave  repeated 
assurances as to timeframes for further payments.
The one hour deadline given by FCStone in its email at 11.55 was unfair given Mr Ps 
circumstances. 
The statement that Mr P received several event of default notices is false. He had 
provided over $700,000  for previous margin calls but has no recollection  of receiving 
any event of default notices before 22 June 2017.
Mr P was a model client and paid all margin calls in a timely fashion.  There  was no 
risk that he would be unable to meet  any liabilities given his position  on liquidation 
amounted to a net credit of approximately $105,000.
The adjudicator  said Mr P held  a very significant US$742,633 close out loss 
exposure which was a high credit  risk. Those losses  could have increased still further 
and rapidly being  futures  and options.' Saying that the losses couldve increased 
further still is speculative and the reverse is also true, which is what actually 
happened the following day. 
FCStone was not concerned about any alleged risk that Mr Ps account posed  given 
its employees allowed  him to increase this risk, only hours  before his account was 
unfairly closed by one employee acting at odds  with a number of others.
There were  insufficient warnings and misleading messages given to Mr P regarding  
his exposure and the threat to his account creating serious confusion at a time when 
he was already undergoing significant  stress.
The adjudicator responded to the solicitors dealing with the points they had raised  but didnt 
change his opinion.
As Mr P didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been  referred  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going  to uphold this complaint. The adjudicator set out in detail  
why the complaint shouldnt be upheld in both his initial opinion and in response  to the 
solicitors comments  on that opinion. I agree with the findings he made. 
I understand why Mr P thinks  that FCStone acted unfairly and I have some sympathy for the 
position he is in as result of his positions being closed. But I dont  think  FCStone did 
anything wrong  in doing what  it did. 
Mr P is an experienced trader and was, at the time,  very familiar with how margin trading 
works. So I think he was well aware that when there  is a margin  call he needs to either put 
money in his account or manage his positions to reduce the margin.  And that this is 
something that he needs to do straightaway as there  is no obligation on the broker  to delay 
closing his positions once a margin call has been  made.
The terms and conditions  of the account included the following:
34. MARGINING ARRANGEMENTS
Ref: DRN7198835434.1 Margin call: You agree to pay us on demand  such sums by way of margin as are 
required from time to time under the Rules of any relevant Market (if applicable) or as we 
may in our discretion reasonably require for the purpose of protecting  ourselves  against loss 
or risk of loss on present,  future or contemplated Transactions under  this Agreement.  If at 
any point in time you fail to meet  a call for margin payments made on you, and/or in our 
absolute discretion if it is considered necessary by us to protect ourselves against loss on 
present Transactions  under this Agreement,  we will be entitled to close  out any or all 
Transactions immediately  and use any collateral or cash  held by us for that purpose,  
including investments held on your behalf.
38. RIGHTS ON DEFAULT
38.1 Default: on an Event of Default  (defined at clause 36 of the agreement and includes 
failing to make a payment when due under the agreement), in addition  to any rights under 
the Netting Clause we shall be entitled without prior notice to you:
(a)..
(b) to sell such of your investments as are in our possession..in each case  as we 
may in our absolute discretion select or and upon such  terms as we may in our 
absolute discretion think fit (without  being responsible for any loss or diminution in 
price) in order to realise funds sufficient to cover any amount due by you hereunder, 
and or
(c) to close out , replace  or reverse any Transaction, buy sell, borrow or lend or enter 
into any other Transaction or take or refrain from taking, such other action at such  
time or times and ins such manner  as at our sole discretion, we consider necessary 
or appropriate to cover,  reduce or eliminate our loss or liability  under  or in respect of 
any of your contracts positions or commitments  and/or 
(d) .
These are not unusual  clauses in margin trading agreements. The effect of the clauses is 
that if there  is a margin call requiring payment and payment is not forthcoming  then FCStone 
can close all of a customers positions.  Given the risk that brokers  take in margin trading 
there is nothing unreasonable in clauses that require immediate  payment if there is a margin 
call. 
I note there  is some  disagreement  about what happened on 21 June 2017. FCStone sent a 
margin call by email early  in the morning.  Mr Ps solicitors say he carried out trades between 
10.00 and 11.00 to manage his exposure.
But he was sent a further email on 21 June 2017 at 14.15 stating:
Please confirm payment  of margin call value today.
I have seen no evidence  that he responded to that email. I note the solicitors have said that 
when Mr P called  later on 21 June 2017 to trade there was no mention of any outstanding 
margin call. But I dont  think the broker was required to mention this. It was for Mr P to 
manage his margin  and ensure he had met the margin call once it had been made and I 
have not seen evidence he did so. 
Ref: DRN71988355I dont think he was given  inconsistent messages on 21 June 2017 as his solicitors suggest. 
There was a clear margin  call and I have seen nothing that suggests he was told this no 
longer applied. I dont think the fact the broker didnt discuss  the margin call amounts to an 
inconsistent message  it is no message at all and there was no basis for Mr P taking the 
brokers silence as meaning the margin call had been satisfied.
Even if I had accepted  he was unaware  of the margin call on the 21 June 2017 his positions  
werent closed that day but the following day. And there is no dispute he was aware of the 
margin call on 22 June 2017. This was again  notified to him by email early  in the morning. 
This was followed at 11.07 with an email to Mr P which stated:
Please could you provide proof of payment as soon as possible. Credit  are concerned as 
the account shows quite a few options  positions.  Failing payment positions  will need to be 
liquidated.
Around 50 minutes later just before  12.00  the Head of Counterparty  Risk for FCStone 
emailed Mr P and stated:
I must clearly  warn  you that we reserve the right to liquidate  your account for non-payment 
of margin call. We are particularly concerned at the number of short options in your account. 
We need proof of payment of the call from your bank by 1pm London  time please.
Mr P responded to this by email  apologising for his late reply  and stating he was in a tight 
schedule and would come back to the broker as soon as he was off his meeting. There  is a 
reference to a short telephone call around the time of the email as there is an email from the 
broker at 12.52  referring  to an ever so short telephone conversation five minutes before and 
warning that missing the days cut off time for a telegraphic transfer would be a big problem. 
There is an internal email after this where it is stated that Mr P said he wouldnt be able to 
speak for an hour. It is clear from the internal email correspondence that the Head  of 
Counterparty Risk didnt  think there was much  chance of Mr P making  payment - given he 
had been warned about the closing of his positions and that his response was he would be 
able to talk in an hour  so he instructed the closure of all positions.
Mr P has referred to a discussion he had with one of the brokers when it was agreed  he 
would close his options positions.  I havent  been provided with a copy of that telephone  
discussion so I dont  know exactly what was said. But I think  it is unlikely it was agreed that 
JCStone wouldnt  necessarily take further  action if he did close  his options  positions. And I 
dont think it prevented it from then deciding to close all his positions.
I have seen an email from Mr P to the Head of Counterparty Risk at 13.19 on 22 June 2017 
in which  he states:
I need  to call you in order to clarify my position.  I am in the process to obtain the liquidity. I 
kindly ask you to hold for a bit the liquidation  of my positions. It is my intention  to cover all 
MCs as I have been doing since Feb 2016 when my account has been  opened  with FC 
Stone.
Mr P says he then discussed paying 30,000 Euros  on 22 June 2017 with all margin  calls 
being covered  on 25 June  2017.  So it doesnt  appear that he was in a position to cover the 
margin call as of 22 June  2017 anyway. 
Ref: DRN71988356There was no obligation on JCStone  to delay closing his positions  on the basis he would 
make a down payment  and then meet all margin calls two business days  later. It may well be 
that it had given him some time to meet a margin call previously but that didnt mean he was 
entitled to expect it do so whenever  there  was a margin call. It was up to JCStone how it 
managed its risk and exposure when there was a margin  call.
As payment wasnt made, at 14.12 the Head  of Counterparty Risk emailed Mr P and stated:
I am sorry you have not been  able to supply proof of payment. We will now start to liquidate  
your positions as allowed under the Terms  of Business you signed when the account was 
opened.
Mr P then emailed the broker at 14.16  saying he would call to proceed in 20 minutes.
This was followed by a further email from JCStone to Mr P at 14.24 when he was again told:
I am sorry you havent traded. I have  now asked.to liquidate  all positions.
Mr Ps solicitors  have said that there were inconsistent messages about what Mr P should  
do on 22 June 2017. This is a reference  to Mr P having a discussion with a broker about 
closing his options positions to deal with the margin call only for this to change  soon 
afterwards to all his positions being  closed.  
I dont have a record of the call but I think it is unlikely there was any agreement that 
JCStone wouldnt  take any further action if he closed his options positions. And I dont think 
it was prevented from then deciding to close all positions. I have  seen no evidence that Mr P 
wouldve done anything  different if there hadnt been a discussion about  him closing his 
option positions.
The solicitors have  pointed to two other key points which  it thinks  are significant.  The first is 
Mr Ps unblemished trading record. But this has no bearing on FCStones right to close  all 
of a customers positions when there was an outstanding margin  call. 
It couldve decided to give him more time to pay what needed to be paid, as he has indicated  
it did in the past,  but it is up to it whether it does so and this isnt something Mr P is entitled 
to rely upon.  It wasnt unfair for it to exercise  its right to close  the positions when Mr P didnt 
pay what was necessary regardless of his trading history.
The second  point the solicitors raise  is Mr Ps distressing personal circumstances. I 
acknowledge he will have  been distressed. But I dont think  that is something that FC Stone 
was required to take into account  when  deciding whether to close  his positions and it wasnt  
unfair of it to close his position because he was dealing with an upsetting personal matter.
The solicitors have  suggested that there was no real risk to FCStone because  Mr P 
reassured it that he would cover the margin call and there was no real indication there was 
any significant risk of liquidation to all of his positions. The solicitors also referred  to Mr P 
having always met previous margin calls and that his account never generated any losses  at 
any given expiration.  
I dont agree that FCStone had no risk. Just because  Mr P had previously met margin  calls 
didnt mean  he would meet this call. And just because his account hadnt  previously 
Ref: DRN71988357generated losses at any given  expiration  date didnt mean this wasnt  possible in June 2017. 
It was entirely reasonable for FCStone to manage  its risk as it saw fit in the circumstances.
The solicitors have  referred to Mr P having a net credit of around $105,000 at the time of 
liquidation. It seems to be suggesting that as long as there was a net credit  FCStone had no 
risk and therefore didnt  need to close Mr Ps positions. But it wasnt  possible to predict  what 
would happen  with Mr Ps open positions  going  forward so the fact there  was a net credit at 
the time of liquidation didnt mean there  wasnt any risk to FCStone.
Based on the information I have been  given by the parties FCStone did nothing wrong in 
exercising its right under the terms and conditions to close  all his positions. He may have  
expected FCStone to act differently because  he had been given time to respond to previous 
margin calls. But this wasnt  something  he was entitled to unless FCStone wanted to give 
him more  time.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7198835