K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
irresponsibly gave him a Safety Net facility  in March 2013.
Background
Mr M was given  a facility with an initial credit  limit of £200 in March 2013.  This was a running 
credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit  limit, or funds 
would be deposited  into their bank account once their bank account  balance fell below a 
safety net amount of the customers choosing.  His limit was incrementally increased  up to 
his final credit limit of £780  by October  2015.    
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint. He thought  the checks  SNC  carried out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate,  so he didnt think it was wrong of SNC to 
initially offer the facility.  However, the adjudicator  didnt think any further drawdowns after 
7 June 2013 shouldve been allowed  because  Mr M wasnt using the facility  as SNC had 
intended. 
Mr M appears to have agreed with the adjudicators  assessment. 
However, SNC didnt  accept the adjudicators assessment, in response  it said it stood by its 
initial decision to lend but felt we hadnt  explained  why the facility  was no longer affordable  
for Mr M. 
No agreement could  be reached so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im intending to partly 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision. But before  I do, I 
think it would  be helpful to outline the rules and regulations  at the time.  
When Mr Ms facility  was approved SNC had a standard licence from the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT)  which  allowed it to carry out consumer credit activities. The OFT guidance in 
place at the time, in Irresponsible  Lending   OFT guidance for creditors set out the 
responsibility of a lender to take reasonable steps to understand whether a borrower  could 
sustainably repay  their loan or loans before agreeing any borrowing. 
The guidance specifically  states Assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed test which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment 
or additional credit commitment in a sustainable manner, without the borrower  incurring 
(further) financial difficulties. 
Repaying credit in a sustainable  manner  is defined as meaning without undue difficulty; 
over the life of the credit agreement  or in the case of an open-ended  agreement  (like this 
facility) within a reasonable period of time, and out of income  and/or savings. The guidance 
then goes onto to say The creditor  should  take a view on what is appropriate in any 
Ref: DRN74878762particular circumstance  dependent  on, for example,  the type and amount of the credit being 
sought and the potential  risk to the borrower.
In addition to this, Section 2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of 
the OFT guidance  says:  creditors should  monitor the borrowers  repayment  record  during 
the course of the credit agreement, offering assistance where borrowers  appear to be 
experiencing financial difficulty. So even after the facility was approved, SNC had an 
obligation to monitor  how Mr M may use the facility and then step in if there were signs of 
financial difficulty. 
So taking into account here above, Im satisfied that there may come  a point where the 
lending history and pattern  of lending itself clearly  demonstrates that the lending  was 
unsustainable.
Thinking about  the guidance, in practice all of this meant that a lender had to take 
proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
Put simply the lender  had to gather enough  information so that it could make an informed  
decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid.
So SNC was required  to establish whether Mr M could sustainably  make his repayments   
not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr M could sustainably  
make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to do before 
agreeing to Mr Ms Safety  Net facility. As explained, Mr M was given what  was an open-
ended credit facility. So, overall I think that this means the checks SNC carried  out had to 
provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr M would be able to both service  
and then repay his facility  within a reasonable period of time.
SNC says it reviewed Mr Ms bank transaction data for the three months  prior to the facility 
being approved.  And having done so it was satisfied  Mr M wasnt having trouble meeting his 
existing commitments. And so, it decided that Mr M would be able to maintain the facility he 
was offered.
The above  is then combined with the results of SNCs  credit checks. Ive looked at the 
information that SNC has provided us from the credit reference  agency, and there  doesnt  
appear to be anything in those results  which wouldve led SNC to automatically decline the 
facility. 
However, I do think there were some  signs that all was not well with Mr Ms finances. For 
example, there appeared to be information available to SNC that Mr M had a recent default 
and that Mr M had opened  several  new credit accounts in the months  leading  up to the 
facility being approved. But, overall,  I dont think it saw anything  that wouldve likely  
prompted SNC to have  asked Mr M further questions about his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN74878763Looking at the read only bank information that SNC  saw before the facility was approved,  
Mr M received a fairly  steady weekly income from his employers  which over the months 
leading up to the facility being  approved  averaged out at around £1,300. And given  the 
expenditure that SNC wouldve seen, it wouldnt have been unreasonable to have concluded 
that the facility  appeared affordable to Mr M. 
But what  I would add, is that at the beginning of the facility SNC ought  to have been on 
notice that not all was entirely  well with Mr Ms finances. SNC wouldve been aware that 
Mr M was a regular user of other short-term loans   indeed,  in the month  before the facility  
was approved it wouldve been  aware that Mr M had spent nearly £600 repaying his other  
short-term lending. While,  this is close to 50% of his income  there wasnt  anything  else that 
wouldve given SNC cause for concern.  So although, I think this amount  of expenditure on 
short-term lending ought to have given  SNC  pause  for thought  before  approving  the facility, 
given what else it saw, I think it was just about reasonable of it to so.  
monitoring the facility  
Although I dont think SNC was wrong  to have initially granted the facility,  I do think it was 
wrong to have allowed Mr M to continue  to drawdown on the facility after June 2013. And 
Ive explained  why below.
 
When the facility  was granted, I dont think it was unreasonable  of SNC to have believed  that 
Mr M would repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time,  which  could 
result in monthly repayments  of around  £20. After all, this is what  was expected, and the way 
this facility was designed.  But if Mr M wasnt using the facility as intended, this could indicate 
to SNC that he was having wider financial problems.  
In order to see whether  I think  it was right to have allowed  Mr M to continue  to draw down, 
Ive considered the relationship between  when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr M returned  for further borrowing. After  all, if Mr M was 
making significant repayments  to SNC,  and then quickly drawing down a similar sum again, 
this ought to have indicated  that Mr M wasnt using the facility as it was designed to be used, 
and he therefore  may not have been  in a position to afford the repayments. 
I think, by June 2013 having looked at the way Mr M was actually using the facility there was 
sufficient evidence to had led SNC  to have stopped Mr M taking  further drawdowns. 
Because, I think there were signs that Mr M was having financial difficulties. 
At almost weekly intervals during  March,  April and May 2013,  a payment is taken which 
cleared the outstanding balance or reduced it significantly. These are all broadly on the 
same day and seem to coincide with Mr M being  paid his wages. However,  in all these 
instances, within a matter of hours, Mr M was returning to drawdown broadly a similar 
amount that had been taken in repayment.  
This pattern happened for three  months in a row, so, I think  this is a clear indication that 
Mr M wasnt repaying his loan in a reasonable period. To me, he seems to be using the 
facility in a similar fashion to a payday loan. But to be clear,  I am not saying that this facility 
was a payday loan. Only,  the use of the facility mirrored how a consumer may use payday 
lending. 
 
So as Ive said, the pattern had been established  that Mr M would drawdown, repay a week  
or so later and then,  because he couldnt sustainably afford the repayments, he would 
Ref: DRN74878764immediately return to SNC in order to fill a hole in his finances  caused by making the 
repayments. Essentially,  Mr M wasnt in fact repaying his balance, but paying interest to 
service the debt over an extended period of time. 
And having thought about this pattern,  it isnt entirely  clear,  given the way the account  was 
being used, why SNC believed that it was sustainable to continue  to have increased Mr Ms 
credit limit. In fact by October 2015 the limit was nearly four times  the size of the one granted 
at the inception of the facility. Indeed, by June 2013 Mr Ms credit limit had increased by 
nearly 25% even though he was displaying the pattern of lending  that Ive described above. 
Beyond what it was seeing in its own relationship with Mr M, I have some additional 
concerns. SNC saw, by way of Mr Ms bank statements that he was on a monthly  basis  
making significant repayments  to several  other short-term lenders. Indeed, they could see 
from their monitoring of the bank statements that Mr M had been  a regular user of short-term 
loans during the entire time that SNC had been  monitoring  his account. Indeed, SNC 
wouldve knew Mr M was spending between £560 and £750 per month servicing these other  
short-term loans between  March and May 2013  alone.
These repayments wouldve had a significant  impact on Mr Ms ability  to repay  what he owed 
SNC. Indeed  these  repayments were around  50% of Mr Ms income and given the number of 
different short  term loans that Mr M was using it shouldve altered SNC  that Mr M was 
having problems  managing his finances.  
Importantly, Mr M still had to pay his normal monthly  living  costs  during this period, which 
included payments to his other credit commitments. So at least by the time Mr M made his 
repayment at the start of June 2013 I think, given  the information  SNC had available  to it, 
that it shouldve  been concerned about  how Mr M was managing  his finances. 
In addition to this there are quite significant  fluctuations on the amount that Mr M was 
spending on betting websites. Not just that, its clear  by the sheer number of transactions  that 
ought to have concerned SNC,  so for example in May 2013  Mr M made a total of 24 
transactions to betting websites. 
SNC wouldve also been aware that Mr Ms income  fluctuated, and he was paid weekly,  so 
some months he would receive five payments rather than four. He also had costs  for credit 
cards and payday lending with at least four other  providers. All in all, given the way Mr M 
was using the facility, I dont  think  as a reasonable lender, SNC couldve conclude that he 
was able to take on any further drawdowns  after June 2013, as I dont believe these were  
sustainable for him. 
So, in conclusion, having looked at everything  Ive been provided, I dont think SNC made an 
error by initially granting the facility. But I do think that by the time of the 7 June 2013  there  
were sufficient indicators  that Mr M wouldnt be able to afford to make  any further 
repayments in a sustainable manner . 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr M, SNC  should:
refund any interest, fees and charges applied to principal drawdowns on Mr Ms facility  
from 7 June  2013; 
Ref: DRN74878765add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file after June 2013.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im partly upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7487876