K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  wont  refund him for 
transactions he didnt  authorise.
background
In July 2018 after a night  out and getting  home,  Mr M noted there were transactions on his 
account he didnt  recognise. He realised  his debit card was missing and he contacted  Halifax 
to claim a refund for transactions hed not made.
He told Halifax a rather convoluted story  of being followed by someone  after theyd seen him 
use his card in a bar. Halifax didnt believe this as Mr M had not used his PIN at this time so 
couldnt work out how his PIN would  have been  overseen. Mr M brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator also felt Mr M had changed  his story too many times for him to be credible.  
She felt overall it was most likely hed allowed someone else to use his card, hoping that 
hed be able to get the fraud refunded.
Mr M was shocked by this as he was adamant that hed not authorised  his card to be used 
and didnt believe Halifax could  show he had. He asked an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 9 September  2020. I believed  the evidence indicated 
Mr M hadnt authorised  the transactions so asked  Halifax to refund him.
Mr M accepted the outcome. No response  was received from Halifax  despite  prompting.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and noted no comments 
disagreeing with the provisional  outcome were received, what  follows is similar to the 
arguments in my provisional  decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply   like gross  negligence  but nothing  thats  had an impact on the 
decision Im making here. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider  is whether the customer made  the 
Ref: DRN72103562transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Halifax and Mr M have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  views of 19 March and 4 April 2020. I dont intend  to 
repeat everything  that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the 
basis of my decision. 
Its clear there are two aspects that have  influenced Halifaxs  thinking.
Firstly I dont dispute Mr Ms story  has changed  more than once as hes reacted to new 
information being provided to him. So for example our investigator  was able to show  hed 
been logging  onto his banking app at the time Mr M was telling us he was asleep.  Im not 
sure I attach much skulduggery to Mr M doing this. I suspect that he was just much  drunker 
than hed thought when  he got back home,  did log on at 05:42 and may well have noticed 
the two cash machine  withdrawals that were  made  at 04:56 and 04:58. But he wasnt sure 
whether these transactions had been  him or its quite likely he thought he may not have  
been in the best state to contact Halifax then.
Obviously Mr M could  have been  observing  someone else make  use his card which  hed 
authorised but I see no reason why this would be likely. That scenario suggests  Mr M 
decided at 04:50 after a few drinks  to allow someone else to use his card  without any 
restraint  even though he was overdrawn already. Its a risky strategy  to carry out fraud in 
the hope that youd  be successfully refunded. Particularly taking into account Mr M didnt 
have much of his authorised overdraft left to use.
And I believe this brings me to the second  aspect  which has caused  Mr Ms story to be 
doubted. Mr M seems to be reasonably aware  of what he believes are his rights under the 
Payment Services Regulations. Hes quoted them to us and Halifax.  Hes doggedly 
suggested that Halifax is required to prove he made  or authorised  the transactions.
I think its unfair to doubt Mr Ms overall testimony  just because he may be aware  he has 
rights under legislation  to be refunded  if he didnt  make or authorise transactions.
Mainly however the reasons I dont believe Mr M made or authorised these transactions  are:
There is a point  of compromise after Mr M used  a cash machine to withdraw £40 at 
04:46. Someone  could have overseen  his PIN and taken the card which Mr M had 
placed in his back pocket.
There are regular  balance enquiries  carried out before a range of actual  and 
attempted withdrawals.
The use made of Mr Ms card is very similar to what  wed see if an unknown  fraudster 
had got hold of the card: cash machine  withdrawals without  any real knowledge of 
what Mr Ms daily withdrawal limit may be; carrying out an automated  pay at pump 
transaction which only required authorisation for a minimal amount; cash  withdrawal 
in branch; and transactions being attempted after the card is cancelled  by Mr M.
The part of Mr Ms story that does  stack up is that he was at home  and asleep whilst  
these disputed transactions  were taking place.
Ref: DRN72103563I have considered Mr Ms potential involvement  in this fraud but have found no real reason 
why he would do this. Im aware hed had fraud happen to him previously but theres  a big 
difference between  a few contactless transactions being refunded  and more than £900  
conducted with the genuine  card and PIN.
On balance I believe there isnt enough  evidence to show Mr M made or authorised these 
disputed transactions.  Halifax  will need  to refund £930.48, along with 8% simple interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Refund £930.48 to Mr M for transactions he didnt make;  and
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 28 July 2018 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7210356