K822xcomplaint
Miss E complains  that a car she got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject  it.
background 
Miss E says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMF on 30 October  2018.  The 
agreement was for a six year old car with a mileage of 52,000 miles.
Miss E says she had to take the car back to the dealership within two weeks  of having it for a 
gearbox oil change and top up of the coolant.
She says unfortunately the car then started  to jolt forward.  Miss E felt it was unsafe  to drive.
BMF said when Miss E raised her concerns  in January 2019 it arranged an independent 
inspection which concluded  there  was no manufacturing default or mechanical failure.  The 
engineer concluded the matter was one of routine maintenance which could be resolved by 
running a fuel system  cleaner through the fuel system. And by cleaning  and regenerating the 
diesel particulate  filter (DPF)
Our investigator upheld  Miss Es complaint. She found there were no grounds  for rejection. 
However she felt it was likely the maintenance issues  had been  present or developing at the 
point of sale. On that basis  she felt it was fair for BMF to carry out the maintenance 
suggested in the independent  report.   And to pay £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
BMF accepted this view but Miss E didnt. She said she had taken legal advice and been 
told that rejection  was fair. She didnt believe the car was sold as safe to drive. She said she 
had spoken to the previous owner who had told her there had been issues  with the car. 
Miss E also said she wasnt happy  with the £50 suggested compensation. She said due to 
the problems she had had to get another car. As a result  she was now in arrears  of £2,400 
with BMF  on her Hire Purchase  Agreement. She felt BMF ought to compensate her with a 
sum equal to 20-25% of the £2,400  arrears.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said that the issue 
identified in the report was one of routine  maintenance for which  BMF wouldnt have been 
liable. However  she felt as the issue arose  within six months of Miss E having  the car she 
felt it was fair that BMF rectified this. It had agreed  to do this as a gesture of goodwill but had 
no liability  for this.
Miss E said she accepted  our adjudicators recommendation  that BMF rectified the issue 
with the car. But not the level of compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75832952Miss E feels strongly about her complaint so I appreciate she is going  to be disappointed  as 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as our adjudicator.
I am conscious that Miss E took out an agreement for a six year old car that already had a 
reasonable amount of mileage. Miss E might reasonably  expect to have some maintenance 
and wear and tear issues to deal with more  so than if her agreement had been for a new or 
newer car with no or less miles  on the clock. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for 
purpose at the point  of sale
When problems arise  within the first six months  of having a car we usually expect the 
business to take responsibility for investigating  to see if there is any fault that was present  or 
developing at the point of sale. And is such a fault is identified  we usually say its the 
business responsibly to rectify any issue
We also usually say that its reasonable to allow at least one attempt to repair before we 
would look to allow a car to be rejected.
From the information I have I can see within the first month  of having the car Miss E took it 
back to the dealership. From the job card I can a slight noise on reversing was noted. The 
gearbox oil was changed and Miss E was advised the coolant needed to be topped  up.
Miss E then had a problem with the car jolting  forward and in January 2019 Miss E raised 
this with BMF.
BMF arranged an independent inspection which is what I would have expected  it to do. I 
have read the inspection  report. This makes it clear the car is road legal however under 
certain circumstances  the engine  performance is hesitant. The report  concluded that it was 
most likely there was a sticky valve in the high pressure fuel pump  and /or a partially 
blocked diesel particulate filter (DPF). Both of these issues  would be seen as routine 
maintenance. It recommended running a fuel system cleaner trough the fuel system and 
regenerating and cleaning the DPF.
I appreciate Miss E has told us she asked to reject the car early on. And that she feels BMF 
had one attempt  to repair the car in November 2018 so she doesnt have to give it a further 
chance to repair.
From what  I have  seen the first issue dealt with by a gearbox oil change and a 
recommendation of topping  up the coolant  isnt the same issue  identified  in the independent  
report. And I would agree  with our adjudicators view that the first issue was maintenance 
rather than a fault issue.
The independent report makes it clear that there  is no mechanical  or manufacturing defect.  
The issues  are maintenance issues. As no actual fault has been identified it wouldnt be 
reasonable to allow  Miss E to reject the car.
Our adjudicator felt as the maintenance issues  were likely to have  been  present at the point 
of sale she felt it was reasonable for BMF  to rectify these. I think  that is fair and BMF has 
agreed to do this but it didnt have to do so. We wouldnt normally expect a business to be 
responsible for routine maintenance issues particularly in a used car.
I understand that Miss E has accepted  BMFs  agreement to clean the fuel system and to 
regenerate and clean the DPF.  I am not sure if this work has been carried out. BMF has 
Ref: DRN75832953made the point  that as this maintenance has been  identified it doesnt feel it should be liable  
for any further issues that arise if there is a delay in carrying this work out. I think  that is 
reasonable point.  So if Miss E hasnt had the work done to date she might want to bear that 
in mind.
The main  issue is the level of compensation which Miss E feels isnt fair. She suggested 
BMF paid a sum equal to  20-25% of the arrears on her account   at the time she suggested 
this she said the arrears were £2,400.
I dont think that is reasonable for a number of reasons. 
I appreciate Miss E has had some inconvenience  but the issues  with the car are 
maintenance issues for which  BMF has no liability but which it has agreed  to cover the cost 
of  it didnt have to do this. 
I can see it took some time from Miss E raising a problem with the car to the independent  
report being carried out. It does take some time to look into a complaint and it wasnt  
unreasonable for BMF to want  an independent  report. Its what  we would expect a business  
to do. And from the information I have  seen it seems some delays were down to not being  
able to contact  Miss E .And Miss E not getting the courtesy car she wanted  although  SMF 
says there  is no evidence that Miss E requested  a particular  type of courtesy  car.
Miss E has mentioned having  to pay for another car. But she hasnt given us any evidence of 
these costs. She has also told us she is in arrears on her account from paying for another  
car. In the emails I have seen it seems  Miss E decided she wasnt going to carry on making 
payments as she didnt  feel the car was fit for purpose.
But I have to consider  if BMF has done  anything wrong and I dont think  it has. It sourced an 
independent report  which was reasonable when Miss E raised issues with the car. On the 
basis of the report  it didnt agree to the rejection  Miss E wanted.  I think that was 
reasonable.as the report  gave  no grounds to do so. But it has agreed  to cover the 
maintenance work suggested.
BMF has also  agreed to pay the £50 compensation that our adjudicator  recommended. I 
think that is fair. It has also suggested Miss E contacts gets in touch if she is having 
problems paying  her account. .
Ref: DRN75832954my final decision
My final decision is that I upheld this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:-
-Arrange for the fuel system to be cleaned and the diesel particulate  filter to be 
regenerated and cleaned at no cost to Miss E if this has not already been done.
-Pay Miss E £50 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7583295