K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy that Creation  Financial Services Limited (Creation) declined a number of 
transactions he tried to make on his credit  card.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 31 October 2019, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said it was reasonable for Creation to have a policy in place that allows  them 
to decline transactions  for security purposes. Theyd  made  their decisions in line with their 
policy, and I hadnt  seen anything to suggest  this policy  was applied unfairly. 
But I felt that Creation  shouldve made  it clear  in their terms and conditions that they may 
need to review some transactions before  approving them, and that some transactions may 
be declined. Had they done so, Mr C couldve made an informed decision how and when to 
use his card.
I agreed that the £20 Creation had already paid Mr C was reasonable compensation  for not 
making it clear that some transactions may be delayed  or declined. And I agreed Creation 
should also credit  Mr C with the reward points he wouldve had for any declined  transactions  
that wouldve  been approved if hed been able to contact Creation about them. But I didnt 
think Creation should  credit Mr C with any reward points for transactions that would never 
have been approved, or for any transactions Mr C chose  not to make on his card.
Both Mr C and Creation  have been  given the opportunity to comment  on my provisional 
decision.
Creation accepted my provisional decision, but Mr C didnt. He says the number of declined 
transactions is not limited to the two detailed in his original complaint but is greater than 10. 
Hes also said that Creation havent  been  open and transparent about the fact they may 
delay or decline  a transaction, and that they dont  have any mechanism  to contact customers  
out of hours  they hadnt contacted him within 24 hours of declining  a transaction.
Mr C feels Creation have caused  him detriment, because he hasnt benefited from reward  
points on transactions  he chose  not to make  with his Creation  card because he had no 
confidence in Creation  approving the transaction; and theyve caused him embarrassment  
by declining  transactions.
Mr C also feels  that hes received a sub-standard service  and there have been systematic  
failings from Creation because they dont have a 24-hour support team;  and because their 
terms and conditions have unacceptable  omissions. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive responded to the points raised by Mr 
C below.
Ref: DRN74417222Mr C has referred  to multiple transactions thatve been  declined by Creation, but hes only 
provided evidence  of two of these. While  I dont doubt that Mr C has had further  transactions  
declined, without any evidence Im unable to look at whether these wouldve been approved 
if Mr C had been able to speak to Creation, or if these would never have been approved 
because of Creations  risk criteria. Because of this, Im only able to consider the transactions 
I have seen the evidence for.
I agree  with Mr C that Creations terms and conditions didnt say they could delay or decline 
a transaction but, for the reasons explained  in my provisional decision, I think  that the £20 
Creation have paid him is fair and reasonable compensation for this. I cant  tell Creation to 
put a 24-hour helpline  in place  this isnt something  we can reasonably ask them to do  
and this will mean that there will be occasions when  Creation cant contact Mr C within  24-
hours of a delayed transaction,  because  they wont have staff working.
I understand Mr C feels embarrassed  that Creation have declined some  transactions, but 
Creation have said they have risk criteria in place which caps  spending for high risk 
purchases. This is for consumer protection, and not for any other reason, so I cant say this 
is unreasonable. 
Mr C feels he can no longer use his card as he would like, because  Creation may delay or 
decline a transaction,  and because of this he feels hes not getting the benefits he pays  for. I 
appreciate how Mr C feels, but I cant tell Creation to credit him with the reward  points for 
transactions they havent had the opportunity to process because I cant  look at whether 
these transactions  wouldve been  successful or not.
Mr C also feels  that Creation have caused  him detriment because he hasnt benefited  from 
reward points on transactions he chose not to make  with his Creation card; and that theyve 
caused him embarrassment  by declining transactions.
Mr C has also commented that Creation have failed to implement the European  SCA 
Directive. While this is noted, the failure  to implement required regulations  is a matter for the 
regulator  the Financial  Conduct Authority. So I wont  comment on this in my final decision.
While Mr Cs comments have been  considered, they dont change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Creation Financial Services  
Limited should credit Mr C with the reward points for the declined  £372.96 transaction on 9 
February 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74417223copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Creation Financial Services  Limited (Creation) declined  a number of 
transactions he tried to make on his credit card.
background
Mr C has complained that Creation have declined a number of transactions on his card, despite him 
being within his credit  limit. Hes also unhappy that the declined  transactions took place outside of 
office hours, so he wasnt able to contact Creation about them. Hes said this has caused him 
embarrassment and hes lost out on reward points  because of this.
Mr C would like Creation to provide a 24 hour contact number and prompt  verification of any 
transactions. Hed also like Creation to give him the reward points he missed  out on because  of the 
declined transactions, and for transactions where  he used another  credit card because he had no 
confidence in Creation authorising them.
Creation apologised for the problems Mr C has encountered, but said certain  transactions were  
blocked due to security checks. In these circumstances  they said they attempt to contact customers 
within 24 hours  to verify the transaction  is genuine,  before the transaction is authorised. But their 
security team  is only available from 9am to 5pm Monday to Friday, so transactions  that are blocked  
for security reasons  outside  of these hours would be delayed. Theyve credited  Mr Cs account  with 
£20 by way of an apology for this.
Mr C was unhappy with Creations response, and has brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator found Creation couldve done things better. He didnt  think that Creation had let Mr C 
know, when he took out the card, that transactions may be declined for security reasons or that they 
may need additional verification. He didnt  think it was reasonable that Creation expected their 
customers to know this. He thought the £20 Creation had paid Mr C was fair for the distress and 
inconvenience caused,  because Mr C was able to mitigate the impact by using  a different payment  
method.
He also thought Creation  should credit Mr C with the reward  points he wouldve  had if the transactions  
hadnt been declined.  But he didnt  recommend that Creation credit  Mr C with reward points for the 
transactions where he chose to use an alternative payment method, as Creation werent given  the 
opportunity to provide a successful payment. He also said that we werent  able to tell Creation they 
must put a 24 hour contact  number in place, as it isnt something  we can reasonably ask them to do.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said he should have the right to feel confident that 
transactions will be processed  without embarrassment,  and that his spending plans shouldnt be 
affected by Creations opening hours. He feels he has no practical alternative  to now just use his 
card online because of having had transactions declined in places he regularly  uses. 
Because of this he says hes not getting  the benefits he should be from the card  the reward points 
and what they can give him. He estimates this costs him in the region of £500 to £1,000 a year in lost 
benefits. So he says he cant any accept remedy that doesnt include redress for transactions made  
on a different card.
Ref: DRN74417224Creation also didnt agree with the investigator. They  say transactions are declined for different 
reasons. Where a transaction was declined  due to their security  system, and Mr C couldnt contact 
them and had to use another card, theyll  credit  him with the lost reward points. But where 
transactions were declined due to their risk criteria they say even if we operated a 24 hours  call 
centre this block could  not be removed.  Because of this Creation dont think its reasonable they 
should credit  the lost reward points on these transactions.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence of two transactions  declined by Creation - £372.96 on 9 February  2019 and £27.20 
on 28 February 2019. Both of these transactions were made outside  of Creations normal business 
hours. Creation say the first transaction was declined  because  of their security system  and additional 
verification was required;  while the second  transaction was declined  because  of their risk criteria.
Creation has said they have caps  for high risk purchases, such as spending in bars and restaurants. 
This is in place for consumer protection and not for any other reasons. Theyve also said that 
transactions declined because of these criteria couldve been approved had they taken  place on a 
different day.
Creation made their decisions in line with their policy,  and I havent seen anything to suggest  this 
policy was applied unfairly. Because of this, I think Creation acted reasonably. The decision to 
approve a transaction or not is one that Creation can make in line with its regulator   The Financial 
Conduct Authority. It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what policies 
financial business should have in place.
But Ive seen  Creations terms and conditions and they dont mention  declined transactions. And 
Creation has also said theres no mention  in their terms and conditions  that they will need to review 
some transactions before  approving them,  or that some transactions may be declined for risk 
purposes. But they consider this to be an industry standard practice.
While I agree this may be industry  standard, I also agree  with the investigator that itd be reasonable 
for Creation  to have  told Mr C this, especially  as transactions  outside of certain  hours may be delayed 
as a result.  This wouldve  meant Mr C couldve made an informed choice as to when and how he 
used his card.
I agree that Mr C was able to mitigate the impact  of the declined transactions by using a different 
payment method. So I agree  with the investigator that the £20 Creation paid him was fair and 
reasonable resolution for them not making  it clear that some transactions may be delayed or declined  
for security purposes. 
I also agree that Creation should credit Mr C with the lost reward points. But this should  only be for 
transactions that wouldve been approved  if Mr C had been able to speak  to Creation. Where  a 
transaction would never have been approved  because of the risk criteria, even if Creation had a 24 
hour contact number; then it would be unfair to ask them  to credit the reward  points  I dont believe 
that Mr C should get the reward point  benefit  from transactions  that wouldnt have gone through.
And I dont think that Creation should credit Mr C with any reward  points for any transactions where 
he didnt try to pay using  his Creation credit card - I cant say whether these  transactions  wouldve  
been successful or not but Creation were denied the opportunity to process them. So I wont be 
asking them to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN74417225my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited 
should credit  Mr C with the reward points  for the declined £372.96  transaction  on 9 February  2019 
only.
Ref: DRN7441722