K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that a car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  (BMWFS) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In June 2017, Mrs P acquired a used car under finance from BMWFS. She contacted  the 
dealership, who Ill call C, very shortly afterwards as she was experiencing problems  with it. 
Mrs P says it took a long time for put fuel in the car, the blind spot monitoring wasnt  working 
and there  was a problem  with the driveshaft. C didnt accept that Mrs P could return the car 
so she complained to BMWFS.
BMWFS replied saying they didnt accept Mrs Ps request to reject the car as she hadnt  
given C a chance to look at the car and confirm a fault with the driveshaft. So they 
suggested that Mrs P contact C so they could  see whether there  was a fault. 
Mrs P then contacted C in January  2018 as she was experiencing more  problems with the 
car. She told them she was having problems filling the car with fuel and was also having 
problems with the parking sensor, the front camera, the radio and the mirror  assist  function. 
C found no fault with the fuel filling but found  that the nearside front inner sensor  was faulty  
and recommended that this was replaced with a new sensor. They also said the car needed  
a new camera and found faults  with the mirror assist but cleared these and reset it. And C 
found that the radio wasnt working  and recommended this was investigated further.  
Mrs P complained to BMWFS. However,  BMWFS didnt treat this as a complaint  as they felt 
they had already looked at this previously.  Mrs P then took the car in to C again in 
November 2018  as she said the suspension fell while the car was being  driven.  C took the 
car out for a road test and heard a noise from the suspension. They then carried  out a 
diagnostic test and found a broken wire for the nearside suspension leg. C checked the radio  
but couldnt find a fault with this so recommended  this was investigated further.
C also ran a diagnostic  test which showed a number of fault codes. They managed  to clear 
the majority of these  but faults codes for the parking sensor, parking camera, ABS,  airbags 
and suspension  settings remained. 
The car was then taken to a separate garage  who renewed the front right suspension  strut 
mount and off side front shock absorber. They also repaired the rear shock  absorber wiring. 
Mrs P then got back in touch with BMWFS again  as she wanted  to reject the car. However, 
BMWFS didnt agree to this. They felt the faults  that were shown in Cs reports from January 
and November 2018 were new. And they said that as these were reported to BMWFS  
outside of the first six months of ownership,  they felt that any warranty  Mrs P held would 
cover repairing the car. 
Mrs P then asked our service  to look at her complaint. One of our ombudsmen  issued a 
decision in May 2019. She said that Mrs P was out of time to complain  about  the problem 
with the driveshaft. But she said we were able to investigate all of the other issues with the 
car. So Mrs Ps case was passed  to one of our investigators. 
Ref: DRN74867552Our investigator partially upheld Mrs Ps complaint. She felt the parking sensor and camera  
should be repaired but at no cost to Mrs P. And she asked BMWFS to pay Mrs P £150  
because her use of the car was impaired as a result of these faults and because BMWFS 
didnt consider her evidence about this when she sent it to them.  However, our investigator  
didnt feel that BMWFS  were liable for the other issues Mrs P had raised which  included the 
suspension, fuel filling, ABS, airbags and radio. 
BMWFS accepted our investigators view but Mrs P didnt. So she asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 11 October 2019. My provisional findings  
were as follows:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant  time.
Mrs Ps hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS supplied  the goods, i.e. 
the car, to Mrs P and they are therefore  responsible  for a complaint about the quality 
of the car. The Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  (CRA)  is of particular relevance to this 
complaint. It says that under  a contract  to supply goods, there  is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory . The CRA says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances.   
Where a brand new car is supplied the expectation  is that the car is free from even 
minor defects. But with used cars, the car will show some  signs  of wear  and tear and 
this is reflected in the price paid for the car. In this instance, Mrs P acquired a used 
car that was around five and a half years old and had travelled just over 55,000 
miles. 
Mrs P first noticed  problems  with the car very shortly after acquiring it. BMWFSs 
account history notes show that Mrs P had reported  that the blind spot monitoring 
wasnt working only a couple of weeks after she acquired it. However,  BMWFS didnt 
investigate this particular  point, instead they focussed on whether Mrs P had shown 
there was a fault with the driveshaft.
I havent seen  specific documentary evidence to show the presence of a fault with 
the blind  spot monitoring from the time Mrs P reported the fault. However, she has 
sent in evidence from C from January 2018 that shows that there were faults with the 
parking sensor,  front camera and mirror  assist.  I note that there were faults identified  
with three  separate things here rather than the blind spot monitoring that Mrs P 
reported in 2017. However,  I cant discount  that what Mrs P reported  in 2017 related 
to all of these issues as arguably they could all assist with monitoring things that 
were in a drivers blind spot. And BMWFS has already said they will arrange to repair 
the parking sensor and camera (as the mirror assist has already been  repaired) so it 
looks like they have  no particular concern  about this either. 
Ref: DRN74867553So, while Mrs P hasnt  sent in documentary evidence of the fault from 2017, I think 
on balance there  was a fault with the mirror  assist,  camera and parking sensor  at the 
time she acquired the car. And I dont think these were simply wear and tear items 
that a reasonable person  would expect to encounter for a car of this age, price  and 
mileage.
Mrs P is therefore entitled to a remedy for what  happened as I dont think the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. I will address this towards  the end 
of my decision as I want to cover the other issues Mrs P says she experienced with 
the car before deciding what a fair remedy should  be. 
Refuelling problems
Mrs P told BMWFS in 2017 that she was having  problems filling the car with fuel. 
And I can see that Mrs P told C the same thing  in January 2018 as they 
investigated this particular issue. 
C though explained that Mrs P wasnt putting  the fuel nozzle in fully when she was 
filling the car up with fuel. I havent  seen  any compelling evidence that would make 
me think this wasnt actually what caused  the issue. So, I dont think  that there is 
enough evidence  for me to say there was a fault with the car in respect of this 
which means I dont think BMWFS is liable for this particular  issue.
DAB radio
Mrs P has also said that the DAB radio was defective and I can see that C said in 
January 2018  that it was inoperable. C though also said that further investigation  
was needed to establish why this was the case.  C also noted in November  2018  
that they couldnt locate  the fault and again  said that further  investigation was 
needed.  
I havent seen  any evidence that Mrs P reported problems with the DAB radio 
before January 2018. So it appears at least to have been working  for a fair period 
of time before C looked  at it. And no-one has been able to establish what  has 
caused these  problems. I cant say on balance therefore that the DAB radio was 
faulty or was developing a fault when  Mrs P acquired the car. So I dont think 
BMWFS is liable for this particular issue either.
Airbags, suspension,  ABS 
C looked at the car in November 2018 which I believe was shortly after Mrs P said 
the suspension fell when  the car was being  driven. C identified that there was a 
possible issue with the top mount and strut, which related to the offside front 
suspension. And I can see that a separate garage  repaired  this. 
C also ran a diagnostic  test whereupon a number  of fault codes were  displayed. C 
cleared a number  of these codes but fault codes relating to the airbags, suspension 
and ABS remained.  
Mrs P has referred to these faults as further evidence  that the car she acquired 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, the faults  with the suspension, ABS and 
airbags were  only discovered in November 2018.  
Ref: DRN74867554Had the car been defective for these particular issues when it was supplied to Mrs P 
in June 2017 I think it would be reasonable to expect the faults or problems to have  
been apparent  within  a short period. In this case it was approximately  17 months 
after acquiring the car before Mrs P reported any problem with the suspension and 
before the ABS, suspension and airbag fault codes  were shown in the diagnostic  test 
that C carried out. And, at this time, the car had travelled  around  20,000  miles since 
Mrs P acquired it and had travelled around 75,000  miles  in total.
I accept that Mrs P feels that these problems were in addition  to the other  issues  
shes had with the car. However, considering the time and mileage travelled before 
the faults materialised or were identified, I think its more likely than not that the 
problems were not present at the time the car was supplied. On balance,  I think  its 
more likely that the problems developed at some point after the car was supplied  and 
were likely due to the age and mileage  and general wear  and tear of the car. 
I appreciate it is very disappointing when faults  occur with used cars and these can 
be expensive to repair. However, BMWFS isnt responsible for general  wear and tear 
problems or the general up keep of the car. Having considered the circumstances 
here I dont  think it was liable for all of the faults  shown with the car. Mrs P has been 
given an opportunity to provide further evidence from an independent expert  about  
the faults that I dont find BMWFS liable for, but has chosen not to do this. That is of 
course for Mrs P to decide.  But, without  any further evidence provided,  my decision is 
that BMWFS remains liable  for the faults  with the parking sensor  and camera only. 
What is a fair remedy?
 
Mrs P feels  strongly that she should  be allowed to reject the car. Ive already 
explained why I dont feel that BMWFS is liable for all of the issues that Mrs P says 
are wrong with the car. However, Ive also explained  that Mrs P is entitled  to a 
remedy for the faults with the parking sensor and camera.  
Mrs P reported these faults  very shortly  after she acquired the car. The CRA allows 
for consumers to reject goods that arent of satisfactory quality  within 30 days  of 
acquiring them. It seems Mrs P would fall within that particular timeframe.
However, Im mindful that BMWFS asked Mrs P to provide some documentary 
evidence of the faults she was experiencing with the car and she didnt do so until 
early 2018.  And during this time the car was able to be driven. I dont think  that it 
would therefore  be reasonable  for Mrs P to now be allowed to reject  the car as a 
result. I think a more  appropriate remedy would for the parking sensor and camera 
to be repaired at no cost to Mrs P. If BMWFS arranges, this, this should be carried  
out within a reasonable timeframe. Mrs P also has the option of arranging  the repair  
herself and for BMWFS to cover that cost.
Ref: DRN74867555I also think Mrs P has suffered inconvenience  in taking the car to C for the faults 
with the parking sensor and camera. And she has suffered impaired use of the car 
because the faults have  meant she couldnt  use these particular features, and 
indeed hasnt been able to until the present time.  Not only that, its clear that 
BMWFS didnt consider Mrs Ps evidence from January 2018 when she sent it to 
them and this has likely delayed a resolution  in respect of the parking sensor  and 
camera. I could list how much  I think each of these issues  translates into as far as a 
monetary award. However,  considering everything in the round, I think  I can equally 
make a total award.  
Our investigator felt BMWFS should  pay Mrs P £150. However, I dont think  this 
adequately covers the points Ive mentioned above.  I think a fairer  award  would be 
for BMWFS to pay Mrs P a total of £500 for these  issues.  
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part and direct BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
arrange to repair the parking sensor  and camera at no cost to Mrs P and 
within a reasonable timeframe; or
cover  the cost of this repair  should Mrs P take the car to an approved 
dealership or the manufacturer; 
pay Mrs P £500 for the inconvenience shes been caused by BMWFS not 
reviewing her evidence appropriately  and for having to take the car to C to 
investigate the faults. And also for her impaired use of the car since she 
acquired it. 
I invited both Mrs P and BMWFS to reply to my provisional decision. 
Mrs P replied saying that she agreed with what I had said. BMWFS replied saying that, 
although they agreed with my proposed direction for them  to pay Mrs P £500, they didnt 
agree that they should pay to remedy the issues with the car. BMWFS  said that Mrs P could 
have chosen to reject the car in accordance with the CRA but chose to continue driving it 
which could have made the problems  worse. BMWFS suggested  that they would be willing 
to contribute to the repair costs but not cover  them in full. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS doesnt feel that they should cover the repairs  to the parking sensor and camera.  I 
am a little confused by this as BMWFS  has said to our investigator previously that they 
would accept the repair cost. For the avoidance of doubt however, I am still satisfied that 
BMWFS should arrange to repair both of these  items or cover the cost of those repairs.  
It seems  that BMWFS  accepts there were likely faults with the parking sensor  and camera  at 
the point of supply as they havent  sought  to say otherwise in their reply to my provisional 
decision. I dont  though  accept that Mrs P has potentially made the faults  with these things  
worse by continuing to drive the car. 
Ref: DRN74867556I do agree  that Mrs P could have provided evidence of these faults sooner than she did as 
BMWFS notes. However, BMWFS hasnt  really given me much clarity  on how these faults  
have or could have  worsened through Mrs P continuing to drive  the car. Its entirely  possible 
for example that Mrs P didnt use these particular functions at all once she noticed these 
were faulty.  And while BMWFS says they probably would have allowed Mrs P to reject  the 
car had she provided  evidence of the faults sooner than she did, I cant be entirely sure they 
definitely would have done  so at the time. BMWFS for example were given an opportunity  to 
review the evidence Mrs P provided  of these faults  in early 2018 but didnt do so. 
So, for the reasons Ive given in this decision and my provisional  decision, I will be directing 
BMWFS to carry out the directions I gave in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
arrange to repair the parking sensor  and camera at no cost to Mrs P and within a 
reasonable timeframe; or
cover  the cost of this repair  should Mrs P take the car to an approved dealership or 
the manufacturer; 
pay Mrs P £500 for the inconvenience shes been caused by BMWFS not reviewing  
her evidence  appropriately and for having to take the car to C to investigate the 
faults. And also for her impaired use of the car since she acquired it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7486755