K822xComplaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
provided him a facility  despite reviewing his bank statements which  showed that he was 
gambling. 
Background
Mr M approached SNC for a Safety  Net facility in December 2018. This was a running  credit 
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr M was initially given  a facility with a £450 limit. In total Mr M took two drawdowns,  one on 
22 December 2018 for £300 and then another one the next day for £150.  Based on the 
statement of account  provided by SNC, Mr M has had some  problems repaying the facility,  
and an outstanding balance remains.
SNC reviewed the complaint, and based on the circumstances that Mr M found  himself in, it 
agreed to waive  the interest fees and charges  on the outstanding  balance and collect just 
the principal that was lent. It also said that once the balance has been repaid, Mr Ms credit 
file will be updated. Mr M didnt accept  this offer and instead  brought his complaint to our 
service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint. He thought  SNCs offer to resolve the 
complaint was fair and reasonable  so he didnt  think SNC needed to do any more then 
what it had already agreed  to do. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. In response he said he was given a 
facility he couldnt  afford  to repay  and the facility pushed him deeper into debt so the debt 
should be written off. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
As SNC has made an offer to settle  the complaint, I dont think  in this complaint I need to 
make a finding on whether the SNC facility should or shouldnt  have been granted. Equally, 
given Mr M made his complaint fairly quickly, the facility didnt run for a very long nor were  
there multiple drawdowns. So in this decision Ill be considering whether the offer SNC  has 
made in order to settle the complaint is fair and reasonable.  
The adjudicator didnt make a finding on whether the facility  ought to have been  provided,  
because in their view the offer made  was fair and reasonable. So to start with it may help if I 
explain this services approach to what we think a lender should do to put things right for 
something, if we think a facility shouldnt have been  granted. 
Ref: DRN74979162When a business  has made an error  either because  it accepts  one has been made or we 
decide something has gone  wrong  the starting point, for this service,  is that a consumer 
should be put back into the position  they wouldve been in had an error  not been  made.  
However, that is not always  possible  especially in cases  that involve lending  money.  
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such 
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for 
example interest  and charges. We also direct  an additional interest payment to the 
consumer to reflect the loss of use of the funds. This has the effect of providing  the 
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing  this, in our view,  a fair outcome is reached. 
Turning to the specifics of this case, Mr M was granted a facility with a £450 limit  and I can 
see that this was drawn-down fairly quickly. But the statement  of account provided to us from 
SNC shows that no repayments have been  made  so this means, given our approach to 
these cases, there isnt money to be refunded directly to Mr M. 
The balance that SNC has been  chasing includes unpaid interest, fees and charges. Had 
this service decided  the facility shouldnt have been granted wed have asked SNC to 
remove those, meaning that it was only entitled  to collect  the principal sum lent of £450. 
SNC has already  agreed to collect only the principal lent  which  is in line with this services 
approach  so I dont  think  SNC  needs to do any more then what has already agreed too.
Ive thought what Mr M has told us and I do have with sympathy for Mr Ms position.  I can 
quite understand  why he wants  the outstanding balance  written off, and his liability for this 
facility to be ended. But, in the circumstances of the case, Im not in a position to ask SNC to 
do that. I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision  and Ive explained  why below. 
This is because Mr M has had use of the funds and I dont think it would be fair in this case,  
to ask SNC  to write off this balance. Mr M, as Ive said,  has used these funds  and I think 
SNC is entitled to recover what was lent  which it is what it is proposing to do. 
I accept that Mr M hasnt been in a positon to repay  any of the outstanding balance due, but 
I cant say in this case, that should  mean SNC should  write the balance  off. But what  SNC 
should do is treat Mr M fairly when dealing with him and consider all reasonable courses of 
action. 
I appreciate this decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr M, but I want to assure him 
that Ive listened to his concerns, but on this occasion, I think  the offer made by SNC to 
resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Finally, what I would add is that SNC and Mr M ought to try and work together to repay the 
capital amount outstanding but Id remind  SNC of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly  when 
doing so.  
Ref: DRN74979163My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, the offer Indigo  Michael Limited made to settle Mr Ms 
complaint is fair and reasonable and it isnt required to undertake  any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7497916