K820x#14complaint
Mrs I has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited mis-sold her a private medical  insurance  
policy in 2008.  Mrs I is represented by a friend but for the purposes of this decision I shall 
refer only to Mrs I.
background
Mrs I took out the policy in order to be covered outside the UK. It was only this year that a 
friend reviewed her policy and noticed  that it wouldnt cover  her outside the UK. He 
complained to BUPA on her behalf  as Mrs I doesnt speak English well.
BUPA no longer had evidence of the sale of the policy but it felt that the cover  was clearly 
explained the policy documents. Although it didnt find the policy was mis-sold, as it 
appeared that the policy wasnt right for Mrs I it offered to cancel her policy and refund all 
premiums paid over the last six years.
Mrs I referred  her complaint  here and it was considered by an investigator. The investigator 
thought that the offer was fair and recommended that she accept. Mrs I initially  agreed but 
there was some confusion  over whether interest would be paid. Our investigator  originally 
said it would. When the investigator confirmed that no interest was payable,  Mrs I asked for 
her complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs I felt that the policy  wasnt suitable for her as it didnt meet  her needs. 
But that doesnt mean that the policy was mis-sold.  BUPA  has no evidence  of the sale  
given that it was over a decade ago this is not surprising. 
However the policy document is comprehensive and does clearly explain that it will cover 
eligible treatment in the UK. It also explains  that there is an exclusion for overseas 
treatment. In the circumstances I think its likely that if Mrs I had said that the sole purpose of 
her wanting  the policy was to cover her whilst she was abroad  its unlikely  she would have 
been sold the policy. Additionally a renewal pack was sent to Mrs I each year and Im 
satisfied that it was for Mrs I to check that the cover met her ongoing needs.
Nevertheless BUPA accepted that the policy wasnt suitable for the purposes that Mrs I 
intended and in those circumstances it offered a refund of premiums paid over the last six 
years. As Im not persuaded  from the evidence before  me that there was any error on the 
part of BUPA during the sale, I think the offer was fair. It follows  from this that I dont find that 
BUPA is obliged to add interest to this payment. I understand  that the refund payment has 
been made.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require BUPA  Insurance  Limited  
to make any further payment to Mrs I.
Ref: DRN70394102Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7039410