K820x#14complaint
Mr C had a loan agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc for the installation of solar panels at 
his home.
background
In April 2012 Mr C purchased some solar  panels and entered  into a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi.
Mr C says that he was mis -sold the agreement because the annual generation of the solar 
panels is less than the estimate on the Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) 
certificate issued to him at the time of installation.  Mr C says he was told that the return  from 
the panels would cover the cost of the loan but that in fact his system is underperforming 
and that he has suffered  a financial loss.
In its final response Hitachi said that Mr C hadnt provided sufficient evidence in support of 
his claim.
Mr C wasnt happy with Hitachis  response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator identified  the information he needed in order  to determine  whether Mr C  
was mis-sold the agreement but said that because this information  hadnt been provided 
there was insufficient  evidence  to conclude that the agreement had been  mis-sold.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he was unable to retrieve the information  requested  but that he 
wanted the complaint determined on the basis of the information  which  he had already 
provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has said that he entered into the agreement on the understanding  that he would 
achieve a return  in line with the estimate on the MCS certificate. He has also said that he 
was told that the return from the solar panels would cover the cost of the loan.
In order to determine whether the agreement  was mis -sold to Mr C, I would need to see the 
information which was provided to Mr C by the supplier at the time when he entered into the 
agreement, including estimates of the systems performance,  together  with any other 
documents relevant to performance. I would  also need to see evidence of the Feed in Tariff 
income received  by Mr C following the installation of the panels, together  with Mr Cs 
electricity bills for the 12 months  prior to installation and the 12 months  following installation.
I can see that Mr C has been asked to provide this information by this service already but 
hes said that hes not able to provide it. Therefore Im determining  this complaint on the 
basis of the very limited  information which has been  provided.
Based on the available information Im not able to conclude that the agreement was mis- 
sold. I dont have any evidence of what the supplier  said to Mr C about performance  and I 
dont have any evidence  as to the current performance of the panels. Im unable to say 
Ref: DRN70612662whether Mr C has suffered a financial loss because I havent  seen any evidence  of his 
expenditure on electricity  before and after installation.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7061266