K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd mis-sold  him an accidental  
death policy.
background
Stonebridge says it sold Mr H an accidental death policy  (the policy) in 2001, by phone. It 
says this was a non-advised sale and that it called Mr H again in 2004, during which he 
decided to upgrade the policy.
Mr H says the policy was sold to him in branch at the bank at which  he applied for a credit 
card. He says he was told that unless he took out the policy, his application for the credit 
card wouldnt  succeed. So, on that basis, he says the policy  was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought it was more  likely than not that the 
policy was sold to Mr H by Stonebridge during a call in 2001. And she didnt think  the policy  
had been mis-sold. Mr H disagrees and has raised  several points in reply.  The complaint has 
now been passed to me to look at everything afresh  and make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Its possible that the policy was sold in the way in which  Mr H recollects. However,  
Stonebridge has given us screenshots which says a call was made to Mr H in 
March 2001 and indicates a policy was sold to him as it stipulates the policys premium 
amount. Although theres  not much more on the screenshots to indicate what was said 
during the call, Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that the policy was sold to him 
during that call. I think thats more likely than what Mr H recollects as happening, particularly 
as Mr H cant recall  the call in 2004  during which the policy  was upgraded which,  on the 
balance of probabilities, I think took place as indicated by the screenshots  provided to us.
Mr H also says he was told by the banks representative during the face to face meeting that 
the policy would guarantee any outstanding  credit  was paid in the event  of his death and 
without it he wouldnt get the credit  card.  
Our investigator has requested a copy of the credit card application Mr H recalls making 
around this time from the bank  however due to the passage of time, it hasnt been able to 
provide us with this. Thats not entirely surprising considering 18 years  has passed. And 
given that this all happened so long ago, and memories tend to fade over time, Im more  
persuaded that Mr H has either misremembered how the policy  was sold to him or is 
recalling the sale of a different type of insurance  policy. Thats  because  the policys  benefit 
wasnt linked  to any outstanding debt left on his credit card if hed accidently died, the policy 
would pay out a sum of money to the beneficiaries, to be used for any purpose.  
So Im not persuaded that Mr H wasnt aware  of the optional nature of the policy.  I think  its 
more likely than not that he freely  chose to take out the policy at the time.  
Stonebridge says it didnt provide any advice to Mr H about the suitability of the policy  but I 
make no finding on that point because looking at the certificate  of insurance, even if it did 
Ref: DRN73140622recommend the policy to him, theres  nothing to suggest that it was unsuitable for him. 
Whether the policy was recommended to Mr H or not, Stonebridge still had a duty to provide 
him with clear, fair and misleading information  about the main  terms of the policy. I dont 
know what, if any, information  he received at the time it was sold.  But, as Ive found  its more 
likely than not that Mr H wanted the sort of cover that the policy provided, Im satisfied 
theres nothing to suggest that things like its cost, main benefits and exclusions or 
cancellation terms wouldve put him off taking out the policy. And he chose to upgrade the 
policy in 2004,  which increased the premium.
Mr H is also unhappy that the bank may have passed on his personal details to Stonebridge 
without his permission.  Even if that did happen, I dont think thats something Stonebridge is 
responsible for. 
Ive taken on board all of Mr Hs other comments including what he says about contradictory  
information being given by Stonebridge. However,  they dont change  my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 24 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7314062