K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a solar thermal heating  
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2020  concluding that Mr Ps complaint should 
be upheld. I also set out what HSBC should  do to put things right. I attached  a redacted 
version of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision in part. Rather than having the solar thermal  heating 
system removed from his home, he asked if he could keep it.
In response to my provisional decision HSBC said:
It accepted that the solar thermal heating system had been  misrepresented  to Mr P 
by the supplier.
If the system was working, it considered it disproportionate for the system to be 
removed entirely.
It asked if Mr P could provide a copy of his energy  bills before  and after installation 
so it could use the actual savings made through the system rather than using the 
estimate I had suggested.
Following the responses to my provisional  decision  I wrote  to both Mr P and HSBC. I set out 
that if Mr P were  to retain the system,  I considered fair compensation to be to:
Allow Mr P to retain the system.
HSBC should  refund the full cost of the system less 11 years  worth of benefits.  I 
considered this would ensure that Mr P wasnt financially disadvantaged by the 
misrepresentation made  by the installer.  HSBC could use Mr Ps energy bills, if they 
were available,  to calculate  any savings. If they werent it should use the £77 per 
year provided in the expert report.
Refund any transaction paid towards the system on the credit card, with the interest 
refunded as well.
Add 8% simple interest from the date the payments  were  made until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse any other payments Mr P can evidence he paid towards the purchase 
and installation of the system together with interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date of the payment until the date of settlement.
Mr P responded to say he accepted the proposed redress  and was unable to provide energy 
bills due to the amount  of time that had passed.
HSBC didnt accept  that 8% simple interest  should  be added. It said that due to the time that 
had passed this represented  a windfall to Mr P compared to the rate he might have 
Ref: DRN73950522achieved in a savings account.  It felt that it would be more suitable for it to pay interest at 
0.2% per year.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as set out in my provisional decision and my subsequent view on what  I 
consider to be fair compensation.
Neither Mr P, nor HSBC,  disagree that the benefits of the solar  thermal heating  system were 
misrepresented. As a result,  the only outstanding issue is what I consider to be fair 
compensation, in particular  the award  of 8% simple  interest.
HSBC has set out that it feels that 8% simple  interest is too high and that a lower rate, in line 
with what Mr P could have expected to achieve  in a savings account  with it, would be more  
appropriate.
Having considered HSBCs view, I remain of the view that 8% simple interest should be 
awarded. When awarding 8% simple  interest,  it isnt intended to punish a business.  Rather  
its to recognise when a consumer,  in this case Mr P, has been  out of pocket, or deprived, of 
money and the effect this may have had.
Being deprived of the money may have  influenced any decisions  Mr P would have made 
about spending or borrowing over time.  HSBC  has said that a rate of 0.2% should be used 
as thats what he could have earned in a HSBC savings account. 
But the award of 8% isnt just to reflect any lost opportunities to save  or invest. Its also to 
recognise that he may have had to forego other things he may have needed or wanted such  
as holidays and other home improvements.
Therefore, I dont think it would be fair for HSBC to pay interest at 0.2%  and Im satisfied that 
8% simple  interest represents fair compensation in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ps complaint. In full and final settlement of it, HSBC UK 
Bank Plc must:
(a)Allow Mr P to retain the system;
(b)refund  the full cost of the system  less £77 per year to cover the estimated benefits he 
has received;
(c)refund  any transactions paid towards  the system on the credit card, with the interest  
refunded as well;
(d)add 8%* simple interest to the above from the date the payments were  made  to the 
date of settlement;  and,
Ref: DRN73950523(e)reimburse any other payments Mr P can evidence he paid towards the purchase and 
installation of the system  together  with interest at 8% simple per year from the date of 
the payment until the date of settlement.
*If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it has taken off. It should  also give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue  
& Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73950524Provisional decision
Complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has rejected the claim  he made under  section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the CCA) in relation to a solar thermal heating system he says was misrepresented  
to him by the supplier.
Background
In or around  May 2011, Mr P was contacted by a representative  of a company  Ill call S to talk about purchasing 
a solar  thermal heating  system (the system)  to be installed at his home. After  being  visited  by a representative 
of S, Mr P decided to purchase the system and paid a deposit for the purchase on his HSBC credit card.  The 
system was subsequently installed. Mr P says that S told him the system would  make substantial savings on his 
energy bills, and those savings alongside the payments he would receive under the Renewable Heat Incentive 
scheme (RHI scheme) would mean  the system would pay for itself in 11 years.  Mr P says this turned out not to 
be the case.   
S was dissolved in 2016. In January 2017, Mr P, via his representative, made a claim  under section 75 of the 
CCA to HSBC. Mr P said what S told him about the performance of the system and about  the RHI scheme were 
misrepresentations, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced him to enter into the contract with S. 
On making the section 75 claim to HSBC, Mr P provided  the quote for the system  he had been  given by S, a 
copy of the letter  from S setting out who he should make  payment  for the system  to, and an expert report on the 
type of solar  thermal heating system that had been  installed.
In its final response  letter  HSBC  said section  75 didnt apply  to this transaction. It said Mr Ps contract  for the 
system was with S, but the payment he made on his credit card was to a different company, which Ill refer to as 
G. Because of this HSBC said the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (d-c-s  agreement) didnt exist 
for the purchase  of the system, and it therefore  has no liability under section 75.
Mr P wrote  back to HSBC and said he had made the payment to G as it is what S had directed him to do. To 
support this, he pointed to a letter from S which referred to G as the installation side of our [Ss] organisation. Mr 
P said that this demonstrated that there  was an arrangement between S and G and therefore  there was a valid d-
c-s agreement  for the purchase of the system.
HSBC maintained its position  that section  75 didnt apply to the transaction.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators  looked into his 
complaint. They concluded,  similarly to HSBC,  that section  75 didnt apply  to the transaction. They said that they 
could see no link, or association,  between S and G and therefore there wasnt  the required d-c-s agreement.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. In summary he said:
The investigator hadnt  applied section 12(b) of the CCA to the complaint correctly and there was an 
arrangement between HSBC and S within  the wide meaning of the word.
There was clearly  an arrangement between  S and G, otherwise  why would  S have directed Mr P to pay 
G.
S had referred to G as the installation side of our organisation which again supported that there was an 
arrangement between S and G.
Because of the arrangement between  S and G, there is a d-c-s arrangement between HSBC and S. 
Therefore section 75 does apply to the transaction.
To further support his position,  Mr P pointed  to a number of judgements, as well as provided an example of 
another consumer  who had also entered into a contract with S and had been directed  to make their payments to 
G. In this particular example,  the consumer had made a successful claim under section 75 with the financial 
business accepting  that there was a valid d-c-s arrangement.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN73950525My provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
Relevant considerations
I am required  to determine this complaint on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account  relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rule, guidance and standards,  and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what  I 
consider to have been  good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In this case the relevant law includes section 75 of the CCA which sets out:
75.  Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1)  If the debtor under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement  falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a 
transaction financed  by the agreement, any claim  against the supplier in respect  of a misrepresentation or breach 
of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the creditor,  who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and 
severally liable to the debtor.
The effect  of section 75 is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services through  an associated credit 
agreement, and they have a claim  against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract, they will also have a like claim  against  the credit provider. But there  are certain  conditions that need 
to be met. The relevant condition in this case is that there needs  to be a link between Mr P, HSBC and S  this is 
the d-c-s agreement  which financed the purchase of the system.  
Ive taken into account section 12 of the CCA as this defines  d-c-s  agreements. For this complaint paragraph  (b) 
is the relevant definition:
12. Debtor-creditor-supplier agreements.
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement being
(a) 
(b) a restricted-use credit agreement  which falls within section 11(1)(b)  and is made by the creditor under  pre-
existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier, or
(c) 
And section 187 of the CCA sets out:
187.  Arrangements between creditor  and supplier.
(1)  A consumer credit  agreement shall be treated as entered  into under  pre-existing arrangements  between  a 
creditor and a supplier  if it is entered into in accordance  with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons  mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
(2)  A consumer credit  agreement shall be treated as entered  into in contemplation  of future arrangements 
between a creditor and a supplier  if it is entered into in the expectation that arrangements will subsequently be 
made between persons  mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c) for the supply of cash, goods and services (or 
any of them) to be financed by the consumer  credit agreement.

(4)  The persons referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are
(a)  the creditor and the supplier;
(b)  one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)  an associate of one and an associate of the others.
(5)  Where the creditor is an associate of the suppliers,  the consumer credit  agreement  shall be treated,  unless 
the contrary  is proved, as entered  into under  pre-existing arrangements between the creditor and the supplier.
Ref: DRN73950526Section 184 of the CCA sets out:
184.   Associates.
(1)A person is an associate  of an individual  if that person  is
(a)the individuals  husband or wife or civil partner,
(b)a relative  of
(i)the individual, or
(ii)the individuals husband or wife or civil partner,  or
(c)the husband  or wife or civil partner of a relative of
(i)the individual, or
(ii)the individuals husband or wife or civil partner.
(2)A person is an associate  of any person with whom he is in partnership, and of the husband or 
wife or civil partner  or a relative of any individual  with whom  he is in partnership.
(3)A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons  who are his 
associates, or he and persons  who are his associates, are controllers of the other; or
(b) if a group of two or more persons is a controller of each  company, and the groups either consist of the same 
persons or could be regarded as consisting  of the same persons by treating (in one or more cases) a member  of 
either group  as replaced by a person of whom he is an associate.
(4)A body corporate is an associate of another person if that person is a controller  of it or if that person 
and persons who are his associates together are controllers of it.
(5) In this section relative  means brother, sister, uncle,  aunt,  nephew, niece, lineal  ancestor or lineal  
descendant, . . . references to a husband or wife include a former husband or wife and a reputed husband or 
wife, and references to a civil partner  include  a former civil partner and a reputed  civil partner and for the 
purposes of this subsection  a relationship shall be established as if any illegitimate child, step-child or adopted 
child of a person were the legitimate child of the relationship in question.
Based on the available evidence  it is unclear whether S & G are associates as defined in section  184. Below I 
have considered the relevant case law to consider if HSBCs view of arrangements is too narrow.
Relevant case  law
Mr P has also supplied  a number of judgements to support his position that there was an arrangement between  
S and G, and therefore a valid d-c-s arrangement  between S and HSBC for the purposes  of section  75.
I have taken account of the following judgements:
oThe Office of Fair Trading  v Lloyds TSB Bank Plc and Others [2004] EWHC  2600 (Comm) (OFT v TSB 
Comm);
oThe Office of Fair Trading  v Lloyds TSB Bank Plc and others [2006]  EWCA Civ 268 (OFT v TSB CA).   
oBank of Scotland v Alfred Truman (A Firm)  [2005] EWHC  583 (QB)  (Truman); and  
oMarshall v Tesco Personal  Finance and Others (Cardiff County Court, 30 September 2016) (Marshall ).
These judgements consider  the issue of what amounts to a valid d-c-s arrangement for the purposes of section 
75 of the CCA. 
Is there a valid d-c-s arrangement?
When determining whether HSBC is jointly and severally liable with S under  section  75 of the CCA, the question 
is whether the transaction was financed by way of a d-c-s agreement falling within section 12(b) of the CCA.
When Mr P entered into a contract with S for it to supply and install the system,  he paid for the deposit for 
transaction on his HSBC credit  card, paying this to G as directed to by S. HSBC  submits  that Mr P has been 
unable to establish, and evidence,  a link between  S and G. And as there isnt a link between S and G, there 
Ref: DRN73950527cannot be an arrangement between S and HSBC.  Therefore, HSBC says,  section  75 cannot apply as there isnt 
the required  d-c-s arrangement.
HSBC has suggested  that to confirm that the required d-c-s arrangement was in place, there would need to be 
documentary evidence which shows that S and G shared a director or directors. However, after consideration of 
the relevant case law, I am minded to conclude that the position taken by HSBC is too narrow an interpretation of 
the word  arrangements. Ive noted that arrangements arent defined in the CCA  and this point  was considered  
in the case of OFT v TSB Comm. The judge  said [at para 24]:
There is no definition of the word arrangements in s.189(1) of the Act. Nor do subss.187(1) and 187(2) contain 
a definition  of arrangements.  The second half of each subsection itself uses the word arrangements as part of 
the explanation  there set out. But, in my judgment, in its context it clearly  betrays  a deliberate intention on the 
part of the draftsman to use broad, loose  language.  It is to be contrasted with the far narrower word  agreement. 
In the words  of Wilmer  L.J. in Re British Slag Ltds  Application,  Everybody knows what is meant by an 
arrangement. As he also said,  where the word is not defined,  the draftsman intends that the word should be 
understood and construed in its ordinary and popular  sense.
The judge went on to say [at para 26]:
In my judgment, in the natural ordinary sense  of the word,  there are clearly  arrangements in place made 
between the card issuers  and the suppliers, notwithstanding the absence  of any direct communication between  
them, or any direct contractual relationship,  or even  of knowledge on the part of the issuer of the identity of the 
particular supplier.  The fact that there are a number of different arrangements,  reflecting the various roles,  
contractual or otherwise, played  by different participants in the network, does  not mean that there is not an 
arrangement in place between the issuer and the supplier. I consider that it is unrealistic  to look merely at the 
individual links in the chain; rather  one should stand  back  and look at the whole network of arrangements  that are 
involved in the operation  of the schemes. If one does so, one can, in my judgment, properly  conclude that, by 
virtue of the supplier and the issuer being  subject  to the rules and settlement  processes  common to all 
participants in the card network, there  is indeed an arrangement (albeit indirect) between  them.
In OFT v TSB CA, the Court  of Appeal  agreed  with the High Courts  approach and the judge said [at para 64-66]:  
64. The word arrangements is capable of carrying a broad meaning and in a statute  which elsewhere displays 
a high degree of precision in its choice of language must have  been deliberately chosen by Parliament with a 
view to embracing a wide range  of different commercial structures having substantially the same  effect. The 
judge relied  on In re British Basic Slag Ltd v Registrar of Restrictive Trading Agreements  [1963] 1 WLR 727 , 
particularly the comment of Willmer LJ, at p 739, that everybody knows what is meant by an arrangement. As 
she recognised, that case was concerned with very different  circumstances  under  different legislation, so one 
must be careful not to place too much reliance on it. None  the less, as we said earlier, Mr Hapgood had difficulty  
in resisting the conclusion that even  where merchant acquirers are involved there are arrangements in existence 
between the credit card issuer  and suppliers who have agreed to accept its card. Moreover, we find it difficult  to 
accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow  some  consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence 
of indirect arrangements  when  other consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct. 
65. In the end Mr Hapgoods argument had to be that by enacting section  187(1) Parliament had cut down what 
would otherwise  be encompassed by the broad wording of section 12(b).  However, we are satisfied that the 
expression treated as was used to extend, rather than restrict, the scope of that section; in other words, we 
accept that it was part of a provision intended to prevent  avoidance of its provisions. We think  that the natural 
meaning of those words  is to bring  within the scope  of section  12(b) arrangements  that might otherwise fall 
outside it. If section 187(1)(2) had been intended to define the only kind of arrangements that were  capable of 
falling within section 12(b) we think that the draftsman would have used the word is rather  than the expression 
shall be treated as 
[]
66. For all these reasons  we are satisfied  that an agreement under  which a card issuer makes  credit available to 
the cardholder  for use in connection with transactions occurring under a four-party structure  falls within section 
12(b) of the Act with the result that connected lender liability attaches to transactions  entered into by the 
cardholder pursuant to it.
Ive also taken  into account what the judge said in the case of Truman about what constitutes an arrangement 
for the purpose of section 75.
Ref: DRN73950528In Truman, the Bank of Scotland sought to recover money paid by it to Alfred Truman, a firm of solicitors,  under  a 
merchant services  agreement. Alfred Truman acted for a company called Topkarz,  which  sold cars to members  
of the public  at discount prices. Topkarz had no facility to take credit card payments, so it engaged Alfred  Truman 
to take credit card payments from its customers. Topkarz went into insolvency, leaving its customers without  the 
cars they had purchased. The customers made section  75 claims against  their card issuers, which the card 
issuers paid out. The Bank of Scotland then reimbursed  the card issuers  and brought a claim against Alfred  
Truman who argued the customers did not have  valid section 75 claims.
The court concluded  that the customers did have valid section 75 claims because, although  Topkarz had no 
direct contractual relationship with the card issuers, Topkarz contractual  relationship  with Alfred Truman gave  rise 
to an indirect relationship between  Topkarz  and the card issuers which was sufficient to constitute a pre-existing 
arrangement within the meaning of section 12(b) of the CCA. 
The judge in Truman said [at para 94-96]:
94. In the present case the merchant (the firm) and the supplier (Topkarz) are different. This is not a four-party 
transaction but a five-party transaction and the fifth party, Topkarz, has no contractual  or other direct relationship 
with either  the Visa or MasterCard scheme.  Instead Topkarz has a contractual  arrangement with the firm, as 
described above. Is that indirect relationship sufficient for the purposes  of section 12(b)?
95. Apart from the decision of Gloster J. neither  counsel nor I were able to discover another  case directly  on the 
point. In my view it does not matter that the card issuers had no direct contractual or other relationship with 
Topkarz or that the card issuers  had no idea of the existence  of Topkarz. The firm as merchant was plainly  within 
the scheme  and the contractual arrangements between  Topkarz and the firm were  adequate, in my judgment, to 
link Topkarz by a spur to the same scheme.  As Gloster J. commented (at para 23) the word arrangements 
should be understood and construed in its ordinary and popular sense and there is evidence of a deliberate  
intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad loose language. It follows  that a restricted  construction would  
be contrary  to the scheme of this part of the 1974 Act.
96. I am conscious that it ought  not to be too easy for a merchant to avoid the chargeback  system. If a scheme 
with a third party supplier allows a merchant to argue that there are no arrangements  between the card issuer 
and the supplier, then the card-holder has no rights  under s 75 because there  would  be no debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement. An important element of consumer  protection would be at risk.
97. However,  I recognise that there are a number of problems with my conclusion. Where is the line to be drawn? 
At what point does the nexus evaporate and a relationship become too tenuous even for the broad, loose 
language of this part of the 1974 Act?
98. In my view this is a problem that will have to be resolved on a case  by case  basis and is not really  susceptible 
to solution by the application of a statement  of general  principle.  This is how related problems associated with 
travel agents and the like are resolved. The provider of the services (for example a tour operator) may become  
insolvent. Whether or not the card issuer (creditor) is liable will depend  upon  the precise contractual 
arrangements between the card holder (debtor), the travel  agent  (merchant)  and the provider of services.
So, in considering whether  - on the facts of this case - the required d-c-s arrangements existed   between  the 
parties, I must give the word arrangement its broad  and ordinary  meaning  but take into account the contractual 
arrangements between S and G to determine  whether these would bring  Gs indirect relationship  with HSBC 
within the scope of section 12(b) of the CCA.  
So what was S arrangement with G? Unfortunately, if there  was a written agreement between S and G I have  not 
been provided with a copy. And, as S is now dissolved its unlikely we could obtain a copy  of any such agreement 
now. However,  we have been  provided with a copy of S terms and conditions which make reference to G. These 
state:
7b) The Companys  personnel are authorised  to accept cash, cheque or card payments in favour of [S] or [G], 
for which a receipt  will be supplied.
In my mind  this suggests a contractual arrangement between  S and G as S personnel were able to accept 
payment for goods (supplied  by S) made to either S or G, so the two companies clearly had an agreement  to 
work together in some  capacity (it would be highly unlikely that a business would agree for payments to be taken 
by another company  if there wasnt  an arrangement in place  between them).  And, by S including  this payment 
provision as part of its general  terms and conditions, this shows the practice of G accepting  payment on behalf  of 
S for goods supplied by S was a usual part of the business practices between the two companies.  
In Mr Ps case S specifically directed him to make his payments for the system to G. The letter that has been 
provided by Mr P says We confirm receipt of your deposit of £1,950. The roof payment  of £3,880 will be due 
upon installation of the solar panels, and the final balance of £1,950 will be requested upon completion.  Both of 
these payments  should  be made payable to [G], the installation  side of our [S] organisation. 
Ref: DRN73950529Mr P has also provided this service with an example of another consumer that had entered into a contract with S 
and had been told to make their payments to G. This again confirms  that it was part of Ss usual business 
practice to ask its customers to make their payments to G  Mr Ps case wasnt a once-off request.
This consumer,  following  the installation  of their system,  experienced technical difficulties. When  the consumer 
contacted S to discuss to discuss the issues, S directed them  to contact someone from S installation 
department. This persons email address showed that he worked for G. This supports that there  was some form 
of arrangement between S and G.
Taking the above into account, I am minded to infer from the evidence before me that it is more likely than not 
that there is a contractual  agreement between  S and G whereby  G agreed  to accept card payments on the S 
behalf in return  for being  given  installation work.
However, even if Im incorrect  in this finding Ive taken into account the findings by the judge in the Marshall case. 
In brief, the background to this case was that Mr and Mrs Marshall entered into a contract  with Retail Installation 
Services Limited  for it to supply and install  solar  panels.  The payments for this were  made with a three separate 
credit cards, including a Tesco Credit Card. There were subsequent issues with the installation of the solar 
panels and, as Retail Installation Services Limited had gone into liquidation, Mr and Mrs Marshall made a claim  
under section 75 of the CCA. 
Tesco Personal Finance  PLC argued that as the payments on the credit  card were made to a company  called  
Trueshopping, there wasnt  a valid d-c-s agreement. Mr and Mrs Marshall said they were told by Retail  
Installation Services Limited to make the payments to Trueshopping as they were one and the same. But this 
wasnt the case  as there was no corporate relationship between the two companies.  
The judge in Marshall said [at para 49-50]:
49. The reality of the present case  is that the Claimants  agreed to pay £11,999 for the supply  and installation of 
solar panels at their house.  They dealt  with the First Defendant unaware of the arrangement between the First 
Defendant and Trueshopping under which  the First Defendant solicited the contract with the Claimants and 
Trueshopping then supplied the solar the solar panels and received payment by credit card. The First Defendant  
then arranged installation by Caddy. The Claimants  became aware of Trueshopping because the First defendant 
directed them to make payment to Trueshopping.  Trueshopping issued  the invoice  for payment  to the Claimants. 
Trushopping and the First Defendant were  working  together  under an agreement  whose  precise terms are 
unknown and were  never  made known to Claimants  but which  included an arrangement  for payment  for the 
whole of the price of the solar panels and installation by credit  card to Trueshopping. Trueshopping had a greater  
interest in the supply and installation of solar panels to the Claimants than Truman had had in the supply of cars 
to the customers of Topkarz. I accept Mr MacBeans submission that the factual differences between this case 
and Truman  strengthen rather than weaken his submission. If there were  arrangements between the creditor and 
Topkarz in Truman, as Judge Hughes QC concluded, there is no basis upon which I can distinguish that decision  
on the facts and say that there were no arrangements  in the present case between the Second  Defendant and 
the First Defendant.
50. I therefore  conclude  that the nexus between the supplier (First Defendant) and the creditor (Second 
Defendant) is not too tenuous to be described  as an arrangement.  It is at least  as close to the relationship  in 
Truman. 
Taking into account the relevant  judgements  I have already referred to, Im satisfied that there  was a pre-existing 
arrangement between the supplier, S, and the creditor, HSBC,  within the meaning  of section 12(b) of the CCA. 
So, unless further information  changes my mind,  I conclude that HSBC  has not acted fairly in declining Mr Ps 
section 75 claim on the basis  that there was no d-c-s agreement in place for the transaction to purchase the 
system from S. I will therefore go on to consider whether S did make misrepresentations to Mr P in relation to the 
system and whether HSBC should therefore be liable under section 75.
Was there a misrepresentation?
For Mr P to have a claim for misrepresentation he needs to satisfy  two criteria. The first is that there was a false  
statement of fact by the supplier, S. The second  is that the false statement  (or statements) induced Mr P to enter 
into the contract  with S to purchase the system  when he otherwise wouldnt have  done so. 
When Mr P made  his section 75 claim  to HSBC in January 2017, he said there were  a number  of oral and written 
misrepresentations made to him by S that induced him into entering the contract to purchase the system. The 
written statements, and Mr P has provided  documentary evidence to support  these, were:
Ref: DRN739505210that the system would achieve payback i.e. pay for itself, in 11 years,
that the estimated returns from the RHI scheme would be £3,559 within 10 years and these would  rise 
to a total amount of £12,821 within 25 years of the installation,
that he would  save around  £3,843 on his energy bills over 10 years, rising  to £36,140  within  25 years; 
and,
that the returns generated by the system  would be the equivalent of a financial investment giving  an 
annual return of £509  in the first year, rising to an average 9.495% over 20/25 years.
Mr P has said that these written  misrepresentations  were  supported  by oral misrepresentations that included:
the total savings he would make on his energy bills and payments through  the RHI scheme would  be 
sufficient to recoup  the cost of the system,  £7,780  within around  10 years of the date of installation,
the system would be maintenance free; and,
under  the RHI scheme he would benefit by a total amount of £18,088  over 20 years.
Instead, Mr P has said that there have  been  no significant savings on energy bills and that the system isnt 
paying for itself within the time he was led to believe.
Ive considered  all the information that Mr P provided  when  he made his section 75 claim  to HSBC in 2017. 
These included a handwritten quotation provided  to Mr P by S, the contract  between Mr P and S for the system,  a 
document called Solar  Thermal  Performance  Calculations  and a survey report that was carried  out on his home.
The handwritten quotation  and the Solar Thermal  Performance  Calculations were  provided  to Mr P before  he 
entered into the contract with S to explain the benefits of the system to him. Both show  the same figures. Under 
the column  called Estimated Returns  from Renewable  Heat Incentive it shows  that in year one Mr P would 
make a fuel saving of £199,  rising to an overall  saving  of £18,088 by year 20. Alongside this there  is a column 
called RHI Payment and this shows  that in year one Mr P would receive a payment of £310 rising to an overall 
payment of £8,342 by year 20. This document then goes  on to show that the payback year would be year 11.
Ill consider  the savings Mr P was expected to make  through  installation of the system  first. Whilst I accept that 
the figures  S provided in the above documents  were estimates,  it does  set out that Mr P would  have expected to 
make significant fuel savings on an annual basis. The documents also support  what  Mr P says S told him about 
the energy savings that would be made by installing  the system prior to him entering into the contract.
Mr P submits  that the system did not provide the fuel savings that S told him it would.  To support his position,  Mr 
P has provided an independent  report from a specialist.  This report is based on Mr Ps property and has used the 
UK Governments approved methodology to assess the energy efficiency of existing properties.  
The independent report states that given  Mr Ps particular circumstances (i.e. five people living in the home),  he 
could expect to save about  £77 a year and would mean, based  on energy  savings  only, it would take Mr P 100 
years to recoup  the cost of the system.
The report  also goes on to consider any maintenance costs involved in the upkeep of the system. The report 
says that there is very little maintenance required with the system, but some periodic maintenance is required. 
The report  goes  on to say that the maintenance cost equates  to between £70-£150 a year, which would  eliminate 
any energy savings that were being made.
I have carefully considered Mr Ps testimony and the independent report, and Im satisfied  that the system  did 
not, and could not, save Mr P the amount of money on his energy bills that S claimed it would.  I therefore find 
that the potential energy savings that could be expected from the system  were misrepresented by S. 
Ive also considered the payments S told Mr P he would receive under the RHI scheme. Mr P says although  he 
does not dispute  that the RHI scheme wasnt guaranteed when the sale took place, that the language  used in the 
sales documentation and by S werent sufficient to make  him aware that the scheme wasnt  guaranteed, that 
there could be initial costs and that the maximum  benefit, and length of the scheme, could be less than he had 
been led to believe. Mr P says S told him these payments would mean that the system would  pay for itself within  
the 11 years stated on the quotation.
Ref: DRN739505211My understanding is that the RHI scheme for domestic properties didnt  come into force until 2014, around three 
years after Mr Ps system was installed. When  it came  into force, the RHI scheme would make payments for a 
seven-year period, not the 20 year period that Mr P had been  told by S. Therefore, the maximum financial benefit 
that Mr P could have received  under the scheme would have  been significantly less than he had been led to 
believe by S when he entered into the contract.
To qualify for the RHI scheme, Mr Ps home had to meet certain criteria. This included having  cavity  wall 
insulation as well as a certain depth of loft insulation. Mr P says his home didnt meet the criteria to qualify for 
payments under the RHI scheme  and that this wouldve been an additional expense  he would  have  to have  
incurred in order to comply,  increasing the overall payback period of the installation. And even if his home had 
qualified, the expected  income that Mr P wouldve received  over the 7 years wouldve been around  £1,200.  
Significantly less than the £8,342  he had been led to believe.
Mr P paid £7,780 for the system and has said that the salesperson for S told him that the benefits wold mean that 
the system would pay for itself over 11 years. Based on the available evidence it would take over 85 years for the 
system to pay for itself.  Im of the view that it was the misrepresentation by S, of the savings and income that 
could be made with the system and that it would pay for itself within 11 years.
I therefore find that the payments Mr P would receive under the RHI scheme if he installed the system were  
misrepresented to him by S.  
Mr P has said that it was the above factors that induced him to enter into the contract with S. Considering all the 
information and evidence that has been provided, Im satisfied  that without the misrepresentations that he would 
make significant savings on his energy bills, receive significant payments through  the RHI scheme, the system  
would pay for itself within 11 years and would be maintenance free that Mr P wouldnt have entered into the 
contract. 
Fair compensation
I consider that there were  misrepresentations  on the part of S and that Mr P would not have  entered into the 
contract with it for the system  but for these misrepresentations. In deciding what would  be fair compensation, I 
consider that my aim should be to put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been in but for the 
misrepresentations by S.
As section 75 of the CCA  means  that Mr P has a like claim  against HSBC in respect of the misrepresentations of 
S, Im minded  to ask HSBC to refund the total price Mr P paid for the system,  together with 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date of the payment to the date of settlement. I will allow HSBC to take account of the benefit 
that Mr P has received from the system when  calculating fair compensation.  Mr P has confirmed to this service  
that he didnt register his system to receive payments under the RHI scheme so for ease I consider it fair to use 
the experts  estimate  of £77 per year.  
  
My provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I receive from either party by 22 October 2020, my provisional decision is that 
this complaint  should be upheld.
Im minded to require  HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
(f)arrange for the system to be removed  from Mr Ps property  and make good any damage caused at no 
cost to him;
(g)refund  the full cost of the system less £77 per year to cover  the estimated benefits he has received;
(h)refund  any transactions  paid towards the system on the credit card, with the interest  refunded  as well;
(i)add 8%* simple  interest to the above  from the date the payments were made to the date of settlement;
(j)reimburse any other payments Mr P can evidence he paid towards the purchase  and installation of the 
system together with interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of the payment until the date of 
settlement; and
Ref: DRN739505212*If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks 
for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7395052