K821x#15complaint
Mr Os complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly  turned 
down a claim on his mechanical  breakdown insurance policy. 
Reference to Red Sands  includes its agent.
background
Mr O claimed  on his policy after his car started  to judder at low speeds.  Red Sands 
appointed an engineer  to inspect his car. That engineer said the whole gearbox  would need 
overhauling with replacement  parts and bearings.  The engineer concluded  that the failure 
had occurred due to in service wear and deterioration of the cars gearbox bearing  
components. 
Red Sands  said as the failure was due to progressive  wear and deterioration the claim 
wasnt covered by the policy. So, it turned down  Mr Os claim.  
Mr O complained to Red Sands and the dealer where hed bought the car. Red Sands and 
the dealer offered Mr O £1,500 as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr O turned this down as the repairs cost around £3,000 and he thought Red Sands should  
pay it all. He brought his complaint to us. He said his car had done  less than 16,000  miles 
and was less than six years old. He said the repairing garage had told him the failure  was 
due to mechanical failure and not wear  and tear. So, he thought  the claim should be 
covered. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was fair for Red Sands to turn down Mr Os claim, as it seemed  
the part had failed prematurely. She recommended Red Sands pay Mr Os claim, plus 
interest. 
As Red Sands didnt  reply, Mr Os complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy  covers his car for the mechanical breakdown of named parts. The policy 
defines mechanical breakdown as the failure of a mechanical or electrical component,  
causing a sudden stoppage of its function,  for a reason other than wear and tear, 
deterioration or negligence.  
Red Sands engineer concluded that:
the vehicles automatic transmission has been subject to that of an input bearing failure, 
which is the result of wear  and deterioration to the bearing surface, resulting in 
contamination and damage to the flange  and surrounding areas of the input shaft, causing 
contamination throughout the complete  automatic transmission. This is due to in service 
wear and deterioration of the vehicles gearbox  bearing components
Ref: DRN72223112I appreciate the engineer has said the failure  was due to wear and deterioration. But I dont  
think its fair and reasonable for Red Sands to turn down the claim, on this basis,  where the 
part has failed sooner than would usually  be expected. This is because many  parts  of a car 
will wear  over time but that doesnt  mean they havent failed prematurely. 
The engineers report shows Mr Os car was less than six years old and hed owned  it for a 
few months. It had done 10,800 miles when  he bought it and 15,664  at the point of the 
failure. I havent seen  anything  to persuade me that its usual for the part to fail around this 
mileage. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Red Sands to say the failure doesnt 
meet the definition  of a mechanical  breakdown.
The policy is designed  to cover sudden and unexpected breakdowns and I think  thats what 
happened in this case. So, the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular case  is for    
Red Sands  to settle Mr Os claim, subject to any limits or excesses of the policy. Mr O told 
us hed paid for the repairs so Red Sands should reimburse him for this. Due to the time    
Mr Os been without the money it should  add interest at 8% simple per year from the date he 
paid for repairs to the date it makes payment. Mr Os said he declined the goodwill payment 
from Red Sands and the dealer. But if hes since received any of that Red Sands can deduct 
it from the amount  it needs to pay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance  Company 
(Europe) Limited to settle Mr Os claim by reimbursing  him for the repairs  hes paid for, 
subject to any limits or excesses on the policy, less anything hes already received for the 
repairs. It should add interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mr O paid for the repairs 
to the date it makes  payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7222311