K821x#15Complaint
Mr M says he was badly advised by Cadde  Wealth Management Limited (CWM), which  
recommended the switch  of his personal  pensions into a Self-invested Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) with Old Mutual.  He says this has left him worse off financially.
Background
Mr M says he was approached by CWM about his pension  arrangements in June 2018. In 
the first meeting the adviser introduced himself, outlined the services he could provide and 
left his business card.  
In subsequent meetings with Mr M, CWM went through its advisory process. This included  
completion of a fact-find and a risk priorities  questionnaire.  It produced several reports  for 
him in July 2018 including an investment policy  statement; a pension  projection report; an 
investment report;  and a pension performance  report, including  its recommendations.
Mr M had two personal pension plans  with a total fund value  at the time of around £285,800.  
One was with Zurich  and his other  plan was with Legal & General. 
After following the advice process,  CWM recommended that Mr M should switch  his existing 
personal pension  funds into a new SIPP with Old Mutual. He accepted the proposal and his 
funds were transferred  shortly afterwards. 
In March 2019 Mr M complained to CWM about what  had happened.  He thought it had 
misled him about the charges being made by Zurich. And about the possibility of using other 
funds available  with that provider to achieve the rebalancing  of his portfolio  it said was 
necessary.
 
CWM refuted Mr Ms complaint. It said the information it provided about Zurichs charging 
structure hadnt been inaccurate or misleading. And it said it had considered the other funds 
offered by his former pension providers, but that it wouldnt have represented  best advice if it 
had recommended that he should use these to create  his portfolio.
In his last view the investigator recommended  Mr Ms case  should be upheld. He agreed  his 
pension plans at the time exposed him to higher risk investments  than his appetite.  But he 
concluded there was sufficient  scope to rebalance his funds with his then providers, without 
a need to switch to a SIPP incurring substantial costs. 
CWM disagreed with the investigators view, and so Mr Ms complaint  has been passed  to 
me for review and to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN76207862How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration  of Mr Ms case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by CWM for Mr M. The FCA Handbook  contains eleven Principles for businesses,  
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must  adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like CWM. As such,  I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? Should  the adviser have put them at ease  instead  of facilitating the 
switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect  there was a reasonable potential for the consumer to 
be better off to make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison 
was made  between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Did CWM  meet its obligations to Mr M when it advised him to switch  his personal pensions  
into a new SIPP with Old Mutual?
In short,  I think the answer to this question is no. Ill explain  why Ive reached this conclusion.  
I can see from the fact-find Mr M was 49 years old at the time of the advice. He was single 
with no financial dependents. He was the Director of a retail business and was earning about 
Ref: DRN76207863£30,000 a year. He owned  his own home  and didnt  have  a mortgage. No information was 
gathered about  his regular commitments. 
The documentation  is contradictory in certain areas.  For example, in the fact-find Mr M is 
said to have £10,000 in the bank, but no other savings or investments. In the risk 
questionnaire, hes recorded as being  a fairly experienced investor with a portfolio of shares 
he managed worth  around  £10,000.  
Mr M had two personal pensions. His Zurich  plan had a fund value of around £240,200. His 
Legal & General Plan was worth around £45,600. He was making  net monthly payments of 
around £809 to his Zurich plan at the time of the advice. 
The priority for CWMs  advice was recorded as maintaining Mr Ms standard  of living in 
retirement. In the section  headed Goals the following was recorded:
Secure retirement  second opinion on personal pension   not to lose money  during Brexit  
uncertainty  stock  volatility
Mr M indicated a retirement age of 61, but he noted  his work may keep him until he was 65, 
but also that he may want to stop work earlier - he needed flexibility.  Its recorded that he 
required a gross annual  income from his pension plans  of £10,000 a year (at 2018 prices). 
Given the value  of Mr Ms fund at the time, he already appeared to be in a healthy  position if 
this really was his target annual pension income.  Especially  given  the length of time he had 
left until he retired and the fact that he was continuing to make pension contributions. 
But theres no information about  how this target  annual pension  income  was arrived at. 
Theres no breakdown  or projection of his likely outgoings. Nor is there any detail of what 
other assets he could  draw on when he stopped working. So, I cant  see whether that level 
of income wouldve maintained  his standard of living in retirement or facilitated other plans 
he had for when he stopped working.  
One effect of this target income was to set a low bar in terms of the performance required 
from his pension funds.  CWMs analysis indicated the growth rate required in order for his 
fund to meet this target  was minus 1.7%.      
Im not satisfied CWM used  due care and skill to get to the bottom of the situation here. And 
so, its difficult to see how it could  go on to provide him with best advice. 
Turning to the risk questionnaire, this indicates  that Mr M thought  his pension would be very 
significant in terms  of his retirement plans  providing up to 80% of his income. So, given 
what was recorded  about his other assets, its not clear why CWM found his capacity for loss 
was moderate.  Based on the available information,  I think  this was too high.
CWM assessed Mr Ms appetite to take risk with his pension funds as moderate 
conservative (2 out of 5 on the scale it used where 1 was the lowest appetite and 5 the 
highest). Its definition of his outlook  was as follows:
This category is appropriate where  the investor requires a moderately  high level of security  
and is willing to accept  limited upside  potential. The investments are predominantly in cash  
Ref: DRN76207864deposits and fixed interest  holdings. The remainder  of the portfolio will usually comprise 
equity-backed investments (limited to around 40% of the portfolio)  predominantly in the UK 
in a broad  selection of equities  and property holdings and may include some 'alternative' 
assets.
When CWM advised Mr M to switch his personal pensions. It said:
It is recommended  that these policies are transferred to Old Mutual Wealth.  The primary 
reason for these  recommendations is that you will benefit from a more appropriate asset 
allocation within a new Old Mutual Wealth policy, helping maximise  the growth potential of 
your portfolio  while maintaining the risk of loss within predetermined levels, both now and in 
the future,  that are acceptable to you as a Moderate  Conservative investor.  You will also 
benefit as we will provide you with regular  investment reviews and recommendations on the 
new policy keeping you fully informed as to its progress.
I have some reservations about  the process CWM followed here.  Mr M told this Service he 
felt it had used  scare tactics around Brexit and market crashes  to persuade  him to switch his 
pension funds. I recognise it disputes this version of events saying it was Mr M who raised 
these matters.
If I accept Mr M had some concerns about his pension  investments, Id expect to see CWM 
helped him understand the context  and implications of his decision making.  For example,  if 
hed ended up working another 10-15 years, by de-risking his investments he was also 
eroding his prospects for fund growth.  The evidence of any such discussions is limited.
That said,  the results  from the risk assessment that CWM conducted did indicate that Mr Ms 
then pension plans  were invested in a portfolio of funds above his appetite. This is supported 
by some of the qualitative  feedback it gathered at the time. For example, the risk and priority 
questionnaire noted Mr M mayve taken more risk in the past, but that he was more  careful 
now and would prefer not to make losses  on his pension.
Ive seen the analysis Mr M was provided showing the difference in ranges for the 
performance of his existing Zurich  and Legal  & General funds against the proposed  portfolio 
for his Old Mutual  SIPP.  For example, this showed the range over the previous 20 years  for 
worst losses and best gains and the number of negative  growth  years  for each. This did 
illustrate how a more cautious investment  approach might partially mitigate fund volatility at 
the cost of lower  investment growth.
It would be wrong to conclude from CWMs reports of Mr Ms existing pension asset 
allocation that his investments were wildly out of kilter with his risk appetite. If I were to 
accept CMSs analysis  at face value, then while his Legal & General plan was assessed  as 
between moderate  and moderate aggressive, his Zurich plan (which accounted for around 
84% of his pension  pot) was judged  as moderate, just one category higher than his 
assessed attitude to risk. 
These assessments arent scientific. The qualitative discussions around such exercises  are 
therefore crucial.     
Ref: DRN76207865I think this matter if finely balanced, but Ive concluded that CWM  wasnt acting unreasonably 
when it recommended that Mr M should de-risk his investments, given  what hed told it about  
his outlook. My finding here is strengthened by what Mr M told us when he brought his 
complaint. He appears to have accepted CWM had accessed his attitude to risk correctly as 
moderate conservative. 
The projections CWM produced for fund growth  comparing  his former and new 
arrangements showed  that by following its advice his pension  was likely to achieve less 
growth. Thats because  he was taking less risk. 
Although Id usually  be concerned about advice which meant  someones  pension pot would 
likely be smaller following implementation  of recommendations, given the circumstances and 
my conclusion about Mr M wanting to de-risk his portfolio, this outcome isnt irrational. I think  
Mr M willingly exchanged the prospect of higher growth rates  for being exposed to less risk.  
Ill now consider the fees, charges and penalties Mr M incurred following the switch of 
pension plans. Although his Zurich  fund was valued at £240,200, its transfer  value was 
about £232,800. Thats because the policy had an exit penalty  if he moved his funds before 
he was 55. 
Mr M also incurred  an adviser charge for the initial consultation, the financial review  and 
recommendation, and the arrangement and implementation of his new SIPP. The fee was 
3% of the value of the pension fund - around £8,300. 
So, initial costs eroded the value of Mr Ms pension pot by over 5.5%. 
The weighted ongoing fees payable on Mr Ms previous pension plans were  around 1.076%. 
This was marginally higher than the basic fees payable  under his new arrangement  with Old 
Mutual, which were 1.07%. I note however the most expensive element of his former plans 
related to capital  units, which were on a downward trajectory. But lets assume  for simplicity 
there was broad parity of charges.
However, there was another cost that Mr M was taking on. CWM had recommended that he 
bought an ongoing advice  service:
In our Quarterly and Annual reviews we will provide you with full Information on the value 
and the performance  of any policy  we have arranged for you, comparing this performance 
with the appropriate "benchmark'. We will ask you to confirm  whether or not there  have been  
any changes in your circumstances or objectives, your attitude  to investment risk, or your 
capacity for loss. We will also make recommendations based both on the "rebalancing 
required in order to maintain the appropriate "asset allocation to match your attitude to risk 
and capacity for loss and on any other  changes we believe may be required,  given the 
current economic climate.
CWMs ongoing advice  service represented  a step-change in the oversight of Mr Ms 
pension funds. Hed effectively been arms-length from his Zurich  and Legal & General plans. 
It recommended Mr M should  have  quarterly reviews, and I think  it did so on the basis this 
was integral to ensuring the ongoing  rebalancing of his investments according  to its 
management approach.
Ref: DRN76207866This service came with increased costs  an annual charge of 1% of the value of Mr Ms 
fund. So, given the value of his pension pot at the time, after adjusting for initial fees and the 
Zurich penalty,  this wouldve cost around  £2,700  each year.   
In principle, theres nothing wrong about  agreeing to arrangements  to manage pension  funds 
more closely. Afterall, Mr M did have a reasonably sized fund. But its important to consider 
other options that were available to him which couldve  avoided or reduced the associated  
costs.
Ill focus on Mr Ms Zurich pension plan given that it accounted for 84% of his pot. As such, I 
think my findings here are also telling in terms of the overall  transaction.
CWMs analysis  indicated  Mr Ms pensions lacked holdings in UK and international fixed  
interest funds. Its proposal was to increase the share of these from 0% of his portfolio to 
30% and 4% respectively. There was a similar  proposal on property, increasing his 
investment from 0% to 9%. This shift of over 40% of his funds would come from divesting in 
the Far-East (from 24% to 3%t); Europe  (from 17% to 4%); and UK (32% to 21%)  equity 
sectors.
CWM said it had considered whether it was possible to have de-risked Mr Ms investments 
given the available funds provided by his existing pension providers. In the pension  
performance review report,  it said (bolding is my emphasis):
we have  assessed  the range and quality of funds  offered by Zurich within this policy  to 
determine if there are more suitable funds in which to invest. Our analysis shows  that Zurich  
offer a choice of 52 funds run by a total of 15 fund management companies and will permit 
you to hold a maximum  of 30 at any one time within this policy.  Zurich  have confirmed that 
there will be no costs involved  to conduct a switch of funds in this policy .
Our analysis shows that it would not be possible to construct an optimised portfolio  of 
funds within this policy. Firstly, although theoretically 52 funds sounds a fairly reasonable 
number which ought to offer some flexibility, the reality  is that if you wish to control the 
asset allocation spread  properly, you can only do so with 27 of these funds. The asset  
allocation of the remaining funds is under the control of Zurich  and is variable.
In addition,  our assessment shows that the funds accessible are not a good  fit with your 
investment objectives. With the exception of Cash, International Fixed  Interest,  
Property, and some of the UK Fixed  Interest funds,  all of the available  funds are far more 
volatile than is appropriate for an investor with your attitude to risk.
  
I note CWM raised concerns about  the volatility of the funds available through Zurich.  But its 
own report suggests the proposed reallocation of assets, which involved in particular a 
significant increase  of his UK fixed interest  and property investments, couldve been  
achieved with his main existing provider.
Further, it has produced  analysis showing that although Zurich only had one fund in the 
property sector, this had performed in the top two quartiles in the last year where data was 
available and had a low volatility  rating. There were funds available  in the UK fixed  interest 
sector with similar characteristics.       
Ref: DRN76207867  
Im not satisfied CWMs done enough to demonstrate Mr M was better  off switching his funds 
and incurring nearly £16,000  of upfront costs, rather than remaining  with his existing 
providers and altering his risk exposure  through the available options they offered. In not 
doing so, I dont think it treated him fairly. 
For example, Ive not seen a comparison showing his Zurich and Legal & General plans 
optimised within  the constraints of all the available funds to take account of his attitude to 
risk, against  the proposed Old Mutual  arrangement, also showing the impact  of fees, 
charges and penalties. This wouldve demonstrated  more effectively whether it was in his 
interest to make  the switch.      
I can see CWMs proposed investment allocation for his new Old Mutual SIPP  across  28 
different funds, none with an allocation exceeding  9% and brigaded  within 12 sectors,  was 
tailored. It told us:
We provide  a proactive  management of our clients'  investments, ensuring those 
investments are in a portfolio  with an appropriate ratio of asset  classes according to the 
client's objectives, attitude to investment risk, and capacity for loss. We do not defer this 
process to discretionary fund managers  or to the investment provider, which  means we do 
not include managed funds.
But its not clear to me Mr M required this level of sophistication. By taking a purist 
approach excluding from consideration those Zurich funds that were managed and covered 
more than one sector, it discounted 24 of the 52 funds available to Mr M. While he wanted  to 
alter the risk profile of his investments, I dont think he had a strong  view about  the assets, 
sectors or the precise portfolio approach to be taken.  That was CWMs construct.
The bulk of Mr Ms pension  fund wasnt far out of line with his appetite for risk. Some  
adjustment was advisable. But CWM  hasnt done  enough to demonstrate  wholesale  change 
was required.
  
On balance, I think CWMs  recommendations, to invest through a SIPP with access to 
thousands of funds was more likely than not an over-engineered  solution. It required regular 
servicing to ensure optimal allocation of Mr Ms investments and would incur significant  
ongoing costs.  He also incurred substantial upfront costs to switch.  
So, Im not satisfied that CWMs advice to Mr M to switch  from his two personal  pension 
plans into a new SIPP with Old Mutual  was suitable. And its reasonable for me to require it 
to assess what, if any, redress is payable to him. 
Putting matters  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close  as reasonably 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if hed been  given suitable advice. Its 
not possible to say precisely what  he would  have done, but Im satisfied what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives.
Ref: DRN76207868I think Mr M would most likely have remained with his existing pension providers but 
wouldve sought changes  to his asset allocation to better align with his assessed  risk 
appetite. 
So, I require  Cadde  Wealth Management Limited  to do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown below.
Ive chosen this benchmark  because  Mr M was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain 
his investment objectives. It doesnt mean he wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed  
rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr M couldve obtained from 
investments suited to his objectives and risk appetite. 
If the fair value - what his investment wouldve been worth at the date of settlement had it 
produced a return using the benchmark  - is greater than the actual value  - the amount 
payable from his current plan at date of settlement  theres a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  CWM should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.  
My understanding is that Mr M hasnt taken  any tax-free cash or drawdowns. But he has 
made additional contributions. So, the value CWM  obtains or the calculations it makes  must 
assume these would still have occurred and on the same dates. 
If there is a loss, CWM  should pay into Mr M's SIPP, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  It shouldnt pay the compensation into his pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If CWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer, 
the reduction would  equal  the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M wouldve been  able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Cadde Wealth Management Limited  should  provide the details of the calculation  to Mr M in a 
clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN76207869In addition, Cadde Wealth Management  Limited should pay Mr M £300  for the trouble  and 
upset caused  by the things it got wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint.  And I require Cadde 
Wealth Management Limited to put things right by paying the compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7620786