K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Monzo Bank Limited  blocked  and closed his current  account.  He wants 
Monzo to re-open  his account.
background
In September  2018, Monzo blocked Mr Os current account. The block stopped Mr O from 
being able to access money in the account. On 12 October 2018, Monzo contacted  Mr O to 
let him know  it had decided to close  his accounts with immediate effect.
Monzo rejected  Mr Os complaint, saying it had acted in accordance  with its internal  
procedures and the terms and conditions of his account. Unhappy  with this response, Mr O 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that Monzo  was entitled  to block,  review and close Mr Os 
account. And that it did not have to give Mr O notice.  She was satisfied Monzo had acted 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So she didnt uphold  the 
complaint.
Mr O remained  unhappy: he says he cant get a bank account  elsewhere and that he has to 
use his mothers account to receive  funds. So he asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
case afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint.
I can understand why Mr O is upset. His bank  account was blocked then closed without 
notice, meaning he had no access to his funds.  But for me to uphold  his complaint I have to 
think Monzo has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain why.
account block
Im satisfied that Monzo acted in line with its legal  and regulatory obligations when it blocked 
and reviewed Mr Os account. And that it was entitled to review Mr Os account under the 
account terms and conditions.
Having looked  at the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Monzo, given that I dont  think  it failed to properly follow  its own procedures when it blocked 
and reviewed Mr Os account. So Im not going to ask it to compensate him for any distress 
and inconvenience  this may have  caused.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ref: DRN79256822The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Monzo and Mr O had to comply  with  
say that it could close the account immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances. Having  considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied that Monzo 
acted in accordance  with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Os account.
When it did so, Monzo  asked Mr O to nominate a bank account  into which it could pay his 
remaining funds. Eight days after Mr O provided  those details, Monzo made the transfer. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think eight  days was a reasonable 
period to complete the payment, so I cant say Monzo treated Mr O unfairly.
In summary,  I understand Mr Os frustration at the situation and I know  he will be 
disappointed with the outcome. But, having  looked  at all of the available evidence, I cant say 
that Monzo has done anything wrong.  So Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7925682