K821x#15complaint
Mrs K says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans that Quick Quid  provided to Mrs K from May 2010 
onwards. Mrs Ks last loan was provided in May 2012.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ks complaint about  loans two to nine. So she thought that Mrs K 
shouldnt have been provided with these loans. Quick Quid  didnt agree with our adjudicator  
in full. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans two, three and four would  more  
likely than not have  shown that:
Ref: DRN79195102the repayment required for these loans took up a significant proportion of Mrs Ks 
monthly income. In these  circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Mrs K 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs K, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mrs K was unlikely to have been  able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan five. I say 
this because:
by the time of loan four, Mrs K had owed  Quick Quid  money  for a period of ten 
months. It had taken Mrs K six months to eventually repay loan three. And loan four 
was for not much less than what Mrs Ks actions appear to suggest that she was 
finding difficult to repay. In my view, Mrs K owing Quick Quid  money for this period of 
time, in these circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration of Mrs Ks inability to 
settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement.   
Mrs K was given loans for periods that cannot reasonably be described  as short-
term. And, in my view,  Mrs K paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service  an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs K lost out because Quick Quid provided these loans  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Ks ability to access mainstream  
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Ks complaint about  loans two to nine and Quick Quid  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs K paid on loans two to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct all interest  and charges applied from the outset of loan nine from the current 
outstanding balance. An outstanding  balance  is likely to remain  even after all 
adjustments are made. So Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mrs K should  it wish to do so;
the period  of time Mrs K owed Quick Quid money means  that any information still 
recorded about loans five to nine is adverse. So all entries about these loans (where 
they remain) should be removed from Mrs Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN79195103my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7919510