K821x#15complaint
Mr R, represented by Mrs R, is unhappy his claim on his mobile phone  insurance policy  with 
Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) was declined.
background
Mrs R says her bag, containing two mobile phones owned by Mr R, was stolen from the 
beach while they were on holiday.  So they contacted Amtrust to claim for these.
Mrs R says when they arrived at the beach  in the morning  they hired sunbeds. She says 
they placed the bag containing the phones and other items in a larger bag between  the beds 
and covered it with a towel. Mrs S says she last used one of the phones  around 11:45am 
and placed it back in the bag. And they realised the bag, and therefore  the phones, were 
missing just over an hour later.
Amtrust initially  had concerns about Mr Rs claim and was going to cancel his policy,  as it 
thought he was claiming for the phones under another policy. It asked  Mr R about this. In 
reply Mrs R said they claimed on their travel  insurance policy for other items in the bag, but it 
didnt cover their phones.  And they provided a letter  from their travel insurer confirming this.
Because of delays,  Mr R made a complaint. In its final response,  Amtrust said it hadnt  been 
able to confirm  that Mr R wasnt claiming for the phones  with the travel insurer  itself directly. 
It also said Mr Rs claim  doesnt meet the policy definition of theft, as the police report 
doesnt use the word  theft and give details of the incident or what  was stolen. And it said 
Mr Rs claim isnt covered by the policy anyway, as theyd left their phones where they 
couldnt see them, but others  could  and so they were at risk of being stolen.
Mrs R complained to our service. Our investigator  said Mr R has shown he hasnt claimed  
for the phone with another insurer. And while the initial police report  doesnt mention theft or 
the missing items, Mr R has an email from the police confirming the phones were stolen. 
She also said she was satisfied the bag wasnt left unattended, as she was persuaded by 
Mrs Rs explanation that they stayed  by the sunbeds and kept the bag close by. She asked 
Amtrust to replace the phones  and pay Mr R £100 compensation for delays.
In response, Amtrust said the delays were because it had to make enquiries  with the travel 
insurer. Amtrust  also clarified it isnt saying  the bag was unattended, but that the phones 
were left where Mr R couldnt  see them. And the thief had access to them otherwise there is 
no way they couldve  been stolen.
Amtrust said,  as Mr and Mrs R covered  the bag with a towel it means they were aware there  
was a risk, but still knowingly left it where  they couldnt see it but a third party could. It was 
reasonable to think Mr R was engaged in activities to distract  his attention from where the 
bag with the phones was kept. If the bag had been  in view, theyd have noticed the theft. 
And, as they couldnt pinpoint when it was stolen, this confirms there was a point when they 
couldnt see the bag, but the thief could. So it still doesnt think  the policy  covers their loss.
As Amtrust  didnt agree with our investigator, this complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision. I felt it should  be upheld, but for different  reasons to the investigator.  So I issued a 
provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Ref: DRN70512842Its unclear whether Amtrust now accepts  Mr Rs evidence that he isnt claiming for the 
phones on another policy,  specifically his travel insurance. For the purposes  of 
completeness, I think the letter Mr Rs provided from his travel insurer  is enough to show  he 
isnt claiming on that for the phones  too.
In relation to Amtrusts decision to decline Mr Rs claim, the policy defines theft as the 
unauthorised dishonest taking of the gadget(s) by a third party  with the intention of 
permanently depriving  you of it. And this has to be confirmed by a Police  crime report...
Theres also an exclusion which says theft claims arent covered unless a Police crime report  
is provided in support  of the theft.
Technically this means Mr and Mrs Rs phones need to have been stolen and this needs  to 
have been confirmed by a police  report.  While the initial police report Mr R was given didnt 
mention theft,  I can see the police later provided him with written confirmation the incident 
was a theft and two phones of the same make and model  as those claimed  for were stolen.
So I think its fair to say Mr Rs loss meets the definition of theft in the policy  and that a crime 
report has been provided in support of it.
The policy also has the following general exclusion:
We will not pay...:
Where you knowingly leave your gadget  somewhere where you cant  see it [my emphasis] 
but others can and it is at risk of being  lost, stolen or damaged. For example - in a restaurant  
or a pub where you go to the toilet or bar leaving your gadget  on a table instead of taking it 
with you...
So, Ive also gone  on to consider whether its fair and reasonable for me to allow  Amtrust to 
rely on this exclusion  to decline Mr Rs claim.  .
In its responses to Mr R and our service,  Amtrust  has focused on the bag being in sight  of 
others. Especially,  that it was left where Mr R couldnt see it, but others could. However,  
the exclusion refers  to sight of the gadget  itself rather  than to the bag the gadget was in. So I 
think for the exclusion to apply it means  others would have needed to be able to see the 
phones, not just the bag they were in, when  Mr R couldnt.
Mr Rs consistently said the phones were left in a bag placed under a towel  between  the 
sunbeds. And hes been consistent  with his testimony when dealing with both Amtrust  and 
us. Because of this Im persuaded  by Mr Rs testimony. And while  this means  Mr R couldnt 
see the phones, it also means its very unlikely  others would have been able to see them  
either. I think  others would have  only been  able to see the towel, or possibly the bag the 
phones were in, rather  than the phones themselves. And for this reason I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to allow Amtrusts to rely on the exclusion to reject  Mr Rs 
claim.
Amtrust also said the phones were  left somewhere they were at risk of being stolen, which  is 
the second part of the above exclusion. But even if that was the case, the exclusion says the 
gadget needs to be left somewhere you cant see it but others can and [my emphasis]  it is 
at risk.
Ref: DRN70512843I think the and means  both parts  of the exclusion relating to sight and risk need to be met 
for it to apply. And, Ive already explained  why I dont  think the phones werent left 
somewhere others could  see them. So I think  this means the exclusion doesnt apply in Mr 
Rs case. It therefore follows that I currently think  Amtrust should  meet  Mr Rs claim by 
settling it in line with remaining  terms and conditions.
Finally, it would have  been  frustrating and upsetting  for Mr R to be told his claim was 
declined based  on an exclusion I dont think Amtrust  was ever entitled to rely on.
I can also see Mr R had to chase Amtrust for updates at times, sometimes  more  than once.
And hes been without a replacement phone for some time now.  So I currently think Amtrust  
should pay Mr R £200 compensation  to make up for the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused him.
I explained I intended to issue a final decision along  these  lines. But I asked  both parties to 
provide any further  comments they had first.
 
In response, Mrs R let us know  Mr R has replaced the phones himself.  And she said Amtrust 
continued to take premiums  until February  2019,  despite telling Mr R it was going to cancel 
the policy at the end of September 2018.  Mr R says that as a result he cancelled his direct  
debit in March  2019, when he realised  these were still being  taken. But he hasnt  received  a 
refund of what he paid from October 2018  onwards yet. 
Amtrust didnt agree  with my decision.  In summary, it said in previous cases  where  the 
valuables or device have been  in a bag or item of unattended  clothing we decided  that they 
were somewhere  the insured couldnt  see them, but others could. It referred to specific  
decisions. It said the exclusions were said to have  been correctly applied  in these instances 
and it feels it has acted  consistently in applying the exclusion in the way it has here.  It also 
didnt feel £200  compensation  is appropriate,  as while  there were delays these were 
because it was applying  the exclusion, and its said it acted  correctly  in doing  so. Although,  it 
accepts Mr R isnt claiming  for the devices under another policy  now.  
The case  has now come  back to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Amtrusts  comments  and read the previous decisions it referred us to. But as 
its aware, we consider  each case on its individual merits and circumstances. The decisions 
it refers to relate to complaints with, in my opinion, significantly different circumstances to 
Mr Rs. Having reconsidered  the individual circumstances  in this complaint, Im going to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint  for the reasons already explained in my provisional decision  (and 
above). And Im also going  to tell it to pay Mr R £200 compensation for the reasons 
previously explained.  
Ref: DRN70512844As part of my provisional decision I said Amtrust  should settle Mr Rs claim  in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. These say where theres  a valid theft claim Amtrust 
will replace  the phones with equivalent refurbishments. But it isnt appropriate  to do this now,  
as Mr R has replaced them due to the time thats passed. So because Amtrust  unfairly  
declined Mr Rs claim, it should pay him the cost of equivalent refurbished  replacements to 
those stolen, less any applicable excess. It should  also add 8% simple  interest  from the date 
Mr R replaced  the phones to the date it makes the payment.
In relation to what Mr R has said about Amtrust  continuing to collect premiums when it had 
cancelled the policy, it told us it didnt cancel it as there was a query over whether hed 
deliberately attempted to mislead it. And it says cover  ended  on 25 March 2019,  when  Mr R 
stopped paying premiums.    
In an email dated 28 September 2018,  Amtrust  let Mr R know  it was going to cancel his 
policy due to fraud concerns. Amtrust also said Mr R would hear from its customer  service  
team about  cancellation. But I cant see it got in touch with him after all, likely because it 
didnt end up cancelling the policy. And while Amtrust continued to take payments and did go 
on to consider and decline Mr Rs claim for reasons  other  than fraud, it didnt make it clear  to 
him whether the policy had been  cancelled or not.
Mr R didnt add the replacement phones he bought to the policy in the way it requires for 
these to be covered.  I think  this is likely  to be because he didnt think  it was still in place. And 
it means Amtrust  wasnt  on risk if anything happened to these. Im also persuaded by Mr Rs 
testimony that if Amtrust had told him it hadnt  cancelled his policy after all, he would have 
cancelled it himself. And as this was a monthly  policy he could have  done  that with no further 
liability to pay premiums.  For these reasons, I think Amtrust should  refund the premiums  
Mr R paid between 28 September 2018 and 25 March 2019, plus 8% simple interest. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe 
Limited to:
Pay Mr R the cost of equivalent refurbished replacements  to those stolen less any 
applicable excess together with 8% simple interest  from the date Mr R replaced the 
phones to the date it makes  payment.
Pay Mr R a refund of the premiums he paid from 28 September  2018  until 25 March 
2019. To this is it should add 8% per annum simple from the date the premiums  were 
paid to the date it makes payment.  If Amtrust  considers  its required  by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr R how much  its 
taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Pay Mr R £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Ref: DRN70512845Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051284