K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs M applied to Halifax for a loan during  a meeting at the bank. Halifax 
agreed and also recommended that they take out PPI to protect the loan repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
Mr and Mrs M mainly  say that the loan protection had automatically  been filled in before they 
signed the forms and they can only assume  they didnt notice this as they would never have 
asked for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The PPI policy just covered Mrs M, but as the loan was in Mr and Mrs Ms joint names, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  when the loan was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs M told us they couldnt  now recall all the 
details of this sale.  And what  they say isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  
their complaint. I have  to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most 
likely. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs M aware  the PPI was optional and they chose to have it. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs M made  it clear  on the loan paperwork that they wanted to 
take the policy out. The loan agreement Mr and Mrs M signed included yes and no PPI 
options. I dont  know exactly what Halifax said about the PPI. But I think  the way that 
information about PPI was set out on the form presented the policy  clearly  as a matter of 
choice. I think its likely  that the yes box was pre-printed with an X as Mr and Mrs M had 
talked about this with the sales advisor and the form was prepared for Mr and Mrs M to sign 
with their selected options filled in already. 
So, looking  at the paperwork  from the point of sale, I cant fairly say that Halifax  failed  to 
make Mr and Mrs M aware that it was up to them to say if they wanted PPI or that they didnt 
choose to take it out with the loan. 
Halifax says it advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of their situation  at the time.  
Ref: DRN77676062Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Mrs M have told us about their sick pay 
and work  benefits.  But PPI wouldve  covered the monthly loan repayments for up to 
12 months if Mrs M lost her job  and it wouldve paid out for 60 months if shed been unable  
to work as a result of accident or sickness. This gave Mr and Mrs M better cover than if 
theyd just been relying on Mrs Ms sick pay. And the policy provided life cover  as well.
It doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs M had significant other means they couldve relied on if 
Mrs M wasnt working. I dont know if Mr and Mrs M wouldve always had savings or how 
long they mightve  been able to rely on these to cover their monthly outgoings if Mrs M 
wasnt able to work. 
Being entitled to a redundancy payment, however generous, wouldnt have helped if Mrs M 
was off work  as a result of an accident or sickness. PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to 
redundancy money. This wouldve protected any lump sum Mrs M mightve got giving them 
more financial security. So I can understand why someone with redundancy benefits would 
still want to have PPI as well. 
And although Mr and Mrs M mentioned having  medical cover through  work, this wouldve 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different  circumstances to the PPI. So, 
despite what Mr and Mrs M feel, I find PPI couldve been useful in their particular situation.
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost them each  month, as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment,  and the total monthly payment theyd have to make.  
So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  aware theyd be paying  for the insurance and how 
much this would  cost each month  even if theyve  forgotten this now.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have 
wanted this type of cover. Mrs M wasnt affected  by any of the main  things the policy didnt 
cover and the policy seems to have been  affordable. Overall, I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs M have said in response to the adjudicators  view.  
But this information  doesnt affect my decision.  
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of anything  Halifax 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7767606