K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that UIA Insurance Ltd (UIA)  has declined  to renew his home insurance.
background
When Mr L attempted to renew his home insurance  policy with UIA in May 2019, his 
application was declined. UIA said this was due to him making five claims within  three years.  
So it was unable to offer a renewal. Mr L was unhappy with this explanation, believing that 
UIA were suggesting that some of his claims may have been made unlawfully. He also 
pointed out that UIA hadnt  paid out on some of his claims and so he thought it was unfair 
that the volume of claims was being cited as a reason  not to renew  his policy. 
UIA responded to Mr Ls complaint by assuring him that they did not suspect that any of his 
claims were  unlawful.
They also advised  Mr L that the number  of claims theyd paid out on hadnt had an impact on 
their decision  not to renew his policy  it was the volume of claims submitted to them that 
had impacted their decision. They told Mr L that, at renewal, they review every policy against 
a number of criteria, to check that they still consider the risk to be acceptable. And, on this 
occasion, Mr Ls policy did not meet this criteria. 
Mr L thought this was unfair and so brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into his complaint  and didnt think that UIA had done  anything wrong. She explained 
that UIA, like all insurance companies,  use a risk based approach  to their underwriting  and 
that they had applied  their underwriting guidance  to Mr Ls policy  renewal. She also said that 
it would  be unfair for them to offer cover to Mr L and not to other consumers in a similar 
position. 
Mr L disagreed, adding that he was finding it difficult to find insurance  cover elsewhere. So 
his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint for the following reasons. 
Both parties  agree that five claims were made for accidental damage over the past three 
years. As a result of this, UIA have  said that theyre not able to renew Mr Ls policy.  I need  to 
consider whether this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
An insurer  is able to decide which risks they choose to cover  so its not for me to tell an 
insurer whether they should accept a particular risk or not. Rather, I need to decide whether I 
think UIA have treated  Mr L fairly.  
In their final response letter to Mr L, UIA advised Mr L that, at each renewal, they carefully  
review all policies to taking into account  the details of any claims which  have been  reported. 
They told Mr L that this process should not be viewed as a personal slight on either a policy 
holder or a property  but that they needed to apply the same criteria to all their customers, 
in order to be fair. They also advised  Mr L that it was purely the 5 claims made in 3 years 
which caused his renewal to fall outside of their risk criteria. 
Ref: DRN71568332Having looked  at UIAs terms  for new business  and renewals, I can see that they, like most 
insurers, use a risk based approach to help them decide whether or not to renew  a clients  
policy. And I can see that theyve applied the same terms  to Mr Ls renewal application  as 
they would  to anyone elses. So, for this reason, I think  that theyve treated Mr L fairly.
I can appreciate Mr Ls concerns that hes experienced difficulties in trying to obtain  
insurance elsewhere. But I need  to consider whether UIA have done anything  wrong  in 
declining Mr Ls application to renew  his policy. And, in this instance, they have followed the 
same process with Mr Ls application as they would  have with anyone  elses. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7156833