K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC to transfer his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits, including his Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (AVC).
background 
In September  1993 Mr Cs OPS and AVC benefits  were transferred to a personal pension 
plan after he received advice from Lloyds.
The transfer of Mr Cs OPS benefits was reviewed  as part of the industry wide pension  
review. In April 2001, Lloyds offered to top up Mr Cs pension  by £48,299.90 to compensate 
him for the losses  he incurred as a result  of the transfer. Mr C accepted  this offer in the full 
and final settlement of the matter.
The AVC benefits  transferred did not form part of the review.
Mr C later complained to Lloyds and it issued its final response in April 2016. It did not 
uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that:
Lloyds recommended the transfer of the OPS benefits but there is no evidence that
Mr C was advised to transfer his AVC benefits.  They were not mentioned on the 
original application  form. So, it is reasonable to assume that he made an informed to 
transfer these himself.
There is no available evidence that there  was a delay in transfer or that the monies   
relating to the AVCs  remained disinvested for a prolonged period of time.  But, in 
any case, Lloyds  did not provide advice in relation to the transfer of his AVCs.
The pension review  team were  aware of the AVCs but these were not included in the 
review because the review was only concerned  with the transfer of defined benefits 
and the AVC benefits were money  purchase.
The review was conducted in line with the regulators guidance. There was no limit to 
the amount of redress paid and this was accepted on full and final settlement.
Lloyds provided  details of the information  used to conduct the calculations and 
confirmed that the provision made  for Mr Cs spouse (under the scheme) would have 
been taken into account under the review.
Unhappy with this response Mr C referred  his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators originally reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld.  
Mr C provided  further information to support  his complaint. This included an illustration 
produced prior to the transfer which used the full value of his main OPS benefits  and AVCs. 
And a commencement document,  this showed  the plan was set up from the outset with the 
full value of his main  OPS  benefits and AVCs.  According to this document  Lloyds received 
commission at a rate of 5.2% of the amount transferred in. In addition to these Mr C 
previously sent in a letter  from Lloyds dated 24 March 1993, this said:
I write to confirm that [ceding  scheme]  have completed the relevant section of your 
transfer application, on behalf  of [name  of employer],  and have returned  this to [name 
of personal pension plan provider].
Ref: DRN76281022In order that they may issue a cheque, they require  you to sign the two enclosures; 
firstly, a form of request and release relating to their main pension plan, and 
secondly, confirmation that your self-directed investment account should be 
transferred to the Personal Pension  Plan.
I enclose a pre-paid  envelope for the convenience of your reply,  and look forward to 
receiving these details  in due course.
Lloyds also provided  further information.  This included meeting notes from 1996. Lloyds said 
that these showed that at the time it had no knowledge of the AVCs  having been transferred 
or of any advice having been given in relation to this. Amongst  other things the notes 
indicate that:
During the initial meeting it was noted  that despite searching Lloyds could not locate 
a file in connection with any pension  transfer.
Lloyds was not sure that any transfer  had taken place and thought  that the monies 
may still be held in Mr Cs OPS.
But, Lloyds had found notes which indicated that a meeting  took place in June  1993  
focusing on Mr Cs AVC scheme.
By the second  meeting it was confirmed that the situation with Mr Cs pension  had 
been clarified but there is no mention of what had been established.
I sent Mr C and Lloyds  my first provisional decision on 9 August 2018, explaining why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld in part. In summary I found that:
The transfer of Mr Cs OPS was reviewed and redressed under the pension review.  
Mr C accepted the redress in full and final settlement and it would not be reasonable 
to revisit the issue now without evidence that the review was not conducted  properly.
There was not enough  to suggest that Lloyds  ought to have questioned the 
information provided by Mr Cs OPS and it was not unreasonable  for it to have relied  
on this.
On balance, it is more  likely  than not that Lloyds did advise Mr C to transfer the 
AVCs, which were  transferred at the same  time as the primary OPS benefits.
It had been  found elsewhere,  under the pension review, that the transfer  of Mr Cs 
OPS benefits was unsuitable. It is most  likely that if Mr C had been  advised against 
transferring his OPS  benefits he would also not have  transferred his AVC benefits   
and, in any case, Mr C ought  to have been advised that he was likely to be better off 
retaining his AVCs.
Mr C responded to the decision, in summary  he said:
It had not been taken  into account  that Lloyds was guilty  of more  than just mis-
selling. His case was under review  by a specialist team  at Lloyds for more than two 
years (1999  - 2001); as such  a higher standard should be applied. The teams job 
was to put things  right and it ought to been  aware of the sort of issues that may arise  
in completing this task.
There was a significant delay in transfer  of the OPS which ought to have been taken 
into account. His OPS  fund suffered a loss during this delay and Lloyds should be 
held responsible for this.
The drop in the value  of the OPS  ought to have  been picked up and questioned by 
the review team,  as the fund value should not have  dropped without something being 
amiss.
Ref: DRN76281023Mr Cs wifes date of birth was logged incorrectly within  the pension review  redress 
calculations.
Lloyds redress calculations did not take into account that his OPS afforded  him the 
option to retire from 55 onwards.
There are numerous errors  and inconsistencies for which Lloyds is 100% responsible  
and it should be required to put these  right.
In respect of the AVC aspect of the complaint, the redress should be calculated using 
a start date which takes into account  the delays caused by Lloyds.
Lloyds also responded to the decision, in summary,  it said:
It was not fair to assume that advice was given  by it in respect of the AVCs on the 
basis of the available evidence.
The application form signed detailed the main  OPS benefits  only and the only 
proposal form received  by the receiving scheme was in respect  of the main scheme.
Based  on file notes  from just a year later Lloyds, at that point, was not aware of the 
transfer having gone ahead.
In any case, there is nothing to suggest  that the transfer was not suitable  whilst he 
may not have done so if inappropriate advice had not been given in respect of the 
main scheme benefits, the findings  reached  are not appropriate.
Mr C transferred his money purchase AVCs to a PPP. Investment returns between  
money purchase schemes  will vary depending on the investments and chosen 
strategy  it is not possible, without the benefit of hindsight, to know  whether an 
alternative investment  or strategy may have  been more beneficial.
The transfer was to a PPP not an FSAVC and the annual  management  charge was 
only 1%, which  was not excessive.  In addition Mr C benefited from an allocation  rate 
of 101%.
Also, the PPP would allow him to take TFC whereas  at the time  the AVC had to 
be taken as a taxable annuity.
correspondence and information gathered
Charging structure of the PPP:
Bid/offer spread  5%
Management charge   1%
Commission of £6,228.81 was paid to Lloyds in September  1993
The policy document from the time of the sale confirmed the fund switch charge on the PPP 
was as follows:
The administrative charge for switching between standard  Unit-Linked  Funds  (and 
switching from standard  Funds to the With Profits Fund) is £28.15. For switches out 
of the With Profits Fund the charge is 1.00% of the amount switched with a minimum 
of £28.15.
It also confirmed that commission was payable on any subsequent  single premium 
contributions at the rate of 5.2%  to Lloyds.
The provider of the PPP provided  some  correspondence from around the time of the sale,  
this included, amongst  other things:
Ref: DRN76281024A covering letter dated 2 September 1993 from Lloyds confirming that a cheque for 
£119,784.91 was enclosed.
A letter from the ceding  scheme  to Lloyds  dated 27 August  1993, which  said, in so 
far as relevant:
Thank you for your letter of the 21 July 1993.
I am pleased  to enclose the Trustees  cheque for £119,784.91 being the 
transfer value  available  in respect of [Mr Cs name]  benefits with [name of 
employer].
The transfer value  includes £4,725.23  in respect  of Protected Rights,  and
£93,543.40 in respect  of [Mr Cs name]  self directed investment with [name of 
employer].
A letter from the PPP provider to Lloyds  dated  13 September 1993,  which  said:
With reference to our telephone conversation of 8th September 1993, please 
confirm in writing exactly what the amount of £93,543.30 is in respect of and 
confirm that it is to be added to the above  numbered policy.
The PPP provider then sent a further  letter  to Lloyds  chasing for a response  to the 
above.
Lloyds responded explaining:
Re our telephone  conversation of 8-9-93  I write  to confirm that the Self- 
Investment [name of scheme] monies  have arisen from AVC contributions.
The ceding  scheme confirmed the details of its AVC scheme  as:
As discussed, the SDI option was not a fund with charges.  There  were no 
charges per se as the member  requested  where  their pension assets were to 
be invested. The options were very wide  commodities, shares, pooled funds 
etc, in fact anything which the Trust  Deed and Rules allowed the Trustee to 
invest in. Once checked  that it was a valid investment, the Trustee  would 
invest on the members behalf.  The member would then pay any required 
dealing costs but there would have been  no AMC or TER unless they had 
chosen a pooled fund (which was not common, most members chose more  
esoteric investments).
All of this information  was shared with Lloyds. The adjudicator wrote to Lloyds on my behalf 
and explained  that I remained of the view that: it is more likely than not that Lloyds did 
advise on the AVC transfer, if suitable  advice had been given  in respect of the main scheme 
benefits it is most likely  that the AVCs would not have been transferred and  in any case   
the transfer was not suitable as it led to Mr C unnecessarily paying  a significant amount of 
commission and charges which could have been avoided  if he had retained his AVC 
account.
Lloyds responded.  In summary, it said that:
Mr Cs AVC account was subject to dealing charges.
Ref: DRN76281025Mr C was and is financially astute and he would have made an informed decision 
about transferring.
There is insufficient evidence that Lloyds recommended the transfer of Mr Cs AVCs.
Although the potential  transfer of the AVCs may only have been considered  following 
discussion re the OPS  transfer, the transfer  of the AVCs in isolation was suitable.
Mr C has not been  financially  disadvantaged by the AVC transfer because:
oHis AVC account  would have incurred dealing charges each time he 
changed his chosen  investments.
oBeing  self-invested  his AVC account  carried a high degree of risk and 
potentially high dealing  charges each  time Mr C adjusted his investments 
whereas his PPP had a known charge of 1% per annum.
oBy transferring to a PPP Mr C became entitled  to 25% Tax Free Cash 
(AVC) and, as he was likely  to be a higher rate tax payer  in retirement,  
potentially saved  paying higher rate tax on 75% of his fund.
Mr Cs exposure  to risk was reduced  by transferring his AVCs  to a PPP,  as his AVCs 
were self-invested and he would have had to actively  manage these.
Upon transfer  Mr C changed his potentially high dealing charges to a small known 
charge of 1%.
Mr C could have raised concerns about  this at any stage for example when he was 
looking to join an AVC scheme  with his new employer in 1996.
In terms of the proposed redress methodology: future investment returns  cannot be 
predicted at any time and it is not possible to know what  a self-directed investment 
fund would have  done without the use of hindsight, which  is clearly  not appropriate.
Also, the difference in charges between the AVC scheme and the PPP is likely to 
have been minimal and more than outweighed by the benefits of the funds being held 
in a PPP.
The complaint was then passed back to me for further consideration. On 8 July 2019, I 
issued a further provisional  decision.  I remained of the view that the complaint should  be 
upheld in part. That decision is attached and forms part of this decision. Briefly, I concluded 
that: 
We should not revisit the pension review  calculations. There  was insufficient 
evidence that these had not been conducted  in line with the then regulators 
expectations and it was not unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on information  provided 
Mr Cs former OPS.  
Lloyds did recommend that Mr C transfer  his AVCs
Whilst the transfer did take a long time, there  was not enough evidence to reasonably  
conclude that this was caused by Lloyds. 
The transfer of Mr Cs AVCs was not suitable.
Lloyds accepted the decision. Mr C did not. He made  further submissions in support  of his 
complaint, these focused around Mr Cs belief that the transfer value used was wrong and 
that Lloyds ought to have  known this. 
The investigator relayed  my response to Mr C, I said:  
The transfer value  of the occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits: - the transfer 
value of your OPS benefits dropped  slightly between  the advice process starting and 
Ref: DRN76281026the transfer taking  place  and you believe that the value must be wrong  because  your 
scheme was subject to annual  revaluation.  I understand that it may seem  wrong  for 
the transfer value to have dropped but it was the income you were  entitled to from 
the scheme that increased each year not, necessarily,  the transfer value. Because  
OPS benefits like yours are not made  up of a fund, whenever someone wants  to 
transfer out, the scheme has to calculate the transfer value  based  on what it believes 
is the then current  monetary value of the benefit  entitlement. As I explained in my 
decision this calculation is based on a lot of different  factors   and, whilst your benefit 
may have  increased  in the interim  depending on the various factors taken into 
account  this doesnt necessarily mean  that the cash equivalent transfer  value 
would. For example, if annuity rates  increased, this could decrease the cost of 
purchasing benefits  equivalent to those available under  the OPS  and, as such,  have 
a negative impact on the transfer value. 
The pension review  calculation: - the calculation  undertaken  was complex and was 
based on parameters  set out by the then regulator. As I understand it you are 
concerned that the calculation would have been  incorrect if the transfer value  was 
incorrect. The pension review calculation was based on establishing the benefits that 
you would have  been entitled if you had retained  your accumulated  OPS  benefits and 
comparing the value  of these with the projected  value of your personal pension plan. 
So, the transfer value would not have had a negative impact on this. 
If you would like to raise  a complaint about the scheme the first step would be for you 
raise a complaint  with them  directly, due to the nature of the issue its unlikely that we 
could consider the complaint if you are not satisfied with the response  you receive. 
The Pensions Ombudsman may be able to consider the complaint. In any case, I am 
satisfied that I have enough  information  to decide this complaint fairly and reasonably  
so I will shortly be proceeding with my review of this complaint. 
Mr C responded, he agreed  with what I said to a degree but he said that market  conditions at 
the time meant that it would have been  impossible for the transfer value to legitimately go 
down, so the transfer value used must have been wrong. He also submitted  further  evidence  
to support this position. 
Because agreement  could  be reached,  this case has been passed  back  to me for final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
Ref: DRN76281027business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant.
As mentioned above, my second provisional  decision  is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In response  to that decision Lloyds did not make any further submissions and 
Mr Cs response  focused on the transfer value of his OPS benefits being  incorrect, that is 
what I have focused  on here. 
transfer value
Mr C feels strongly  that the transfer value he received was incorrect  and I appreciate that the 
findings I have  reached will come as a disappointment to him  but, I cannot fairly and 
reasonably uphold his complaint in respect  of the transfer value.
I have taken into account everything Mr C has submitted and I understand he believes that 
due to how transfer values are calculated and market conditions  at the time, the reduction in 
transfer value  must  have  been an error. Lloyds did not calculate the transfer value;  it simply 
accepted this from the ceding scheme.  
So, the question  here is not whether or not the transfer value was correct but, instead, 
whether or not it was reasonable  for Lloyds to accept that transfer value. Under the 
circumstances, I am not persuaded that it was unreasonable  for Lloyds  to accept the transfer 
value despite  the fact that it had dropped slightly. Particularly when taking  into account the 
number of factors that can impact the transfer value  offered by the scheme. 
For the avoidance of doubt, my conclusions in respect of the wider complaint remain as set 
out in the attached provisional  decision, briefly: 
There is insufficient evidence to justify revisiting  the pension  review calculation;  
based on the available information Lloyds performed the review in line with the then 
regulators expectations. 
The process of transferring Mr Cs OPS  benefits took a long time  but, it is not clear 
why it took as long as it did or who was at fault.  
It is more likely than not that Lloyds did recommend  the transfer of Mr Cs AVCs.
The transfer of Mr Cs AVCs would most likely  not have happened had suitable 
advice been given in respect of his main  scheme benefits  and, in any case, the 
transfer of the AVCs  was not suitable.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  Lloyds do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
Ref: DRN76281028below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Lloyds should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Lloyds  should pay into Mr Cs pension  plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Lloyds is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Cs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lloyds deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Lloyds should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
monies 
transferred  
from Mr Cs 
OPS in 
respect of 
AVCstransferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN76281029Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Lloyds totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Cs circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint in part. My decision is that Lloyds  Bank  PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should provide details  of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
 ..
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN762810210COPY OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from Lloyds  Bank PLC to transfer his Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits, including  his Additional  Voluntary  Contributions (AVC).
background
In September 1993 Mr Cs OPS and AVC benefits were transferred to a personal pension plan after 
he received advice from Lloyds.
I sent Mr C and Lloyds my provisional decision on 9 August 2018,  explaining why I thought  this 
complaint should be upheld in part. That decision is attached and forms part of this decision, the 
background to the complaint is set out in detail  within  that decision, so I have not repeated it here.
The transfer of Mr Cs OPS was reviewed and redressed under  the pension review. Mr C 
accepted the redress in full and final settlement  and it would not be reasonable to revisit  the 
issue now without evidence that the review was not conducted properly.
There was not enough  to suggest  that Lloyds ought  to have questioned the information 
provided by Mr Cs OPS and it was not unreasonable for it to have relied on this.
On balance,  it is more likely than not that Lloyds did advise Mr C to transfer the AVCs, which 
were transferred at the same  time as the primary OPS  benefits.
It had been found elsewhere, under the pension review, that the transfer of Mr Cs OPS 
benefits was unsuitable.  It is most likely that if Mr C had been advised against transferring his 
OPS benefits he would also not have transferred  his AVC benefits  and, in any case, Mr C 
ought to have been advised that he was likely to be better off retaining  his AVCs.
Mr C responded  to the decision, in summary he said:
It has not been taken into account that Lloyds  is guilty of more  than just mis-selling. His case  
was under review  by a specialist team at Lloyds  for more  than two years (1999 - 2001);  as 
such a higher standard should be applied.  The teams job was to put things right and it ought 
to been aware of the sort of issues that may arise in completing this task.
There was a significant  delay in transfer of the OPS which ought to have  been taken into 
account. His OPS fund suffered a loss during  this delay and Lloyds should  be held 
responsible for this.
The drop in the value of the OPS  ought  to have been picked up and questioned by the review 
team, as the fund value  should not have dropped without  something being amiss.
Mr Cs wifes date of birth was logged  incorrectly within the pension review redress 
calculations.
Lloyds redress calculations did not take into account that his OPS afforded him the option to 
retire from 55 onwards.
There are numerous  errors and inconsistencies  for which Lloyds  is 100% responsible and it 
should be required to put these  right.
In respect of the AVC aspect of the complaint, the redress should  be calculated  using a start 
date which takes into account the delays caused by Lloyds.
Lloyds also responded to the decision,  in summary, it said:
It is not fair to assume that advice was given  by it in respect  of the AVCs on the basis of the 
available evidence.
The application form signed detailed  the main OPS benefits only and the only proposal  form 
received by the receiving  scheme was in respect of the main  scheme.
Based on file notes from just a year later Lloyds, at that point,  was not aware of the transfer 
having gone  ahead.
Ref: DRN762810211In any case, there is nothing to suggest  that the transfer was not suitable   whilst he may not 
have done so if inappropriate advice  had not been given in respect of the main scheme 
benefits, the findings reached are not appropriate.
Mr C transferred his money purchase AVCs to a PPP. Investment  returns between money  
purchase schemes will vary depending  on the investments and chosen strategy   it is not 
possible without the benefit of hindsight  to know whether  an alternative investment or strategy  
may have  been more beneficial.
The transfer was to a PPP not an FSAVC and the annual management charge was only 1%, 
which was not excessive. In addition Mr C benefited from an allocation rate of 101%.
Also,  the PPP would allow him to take TFC whereas   at the time  the AVC had to be taken 
as a taxable annuity.
correspondence and information gathered
Charging structure of the PPP:
Bid/offer spread  5%
Management charge   1%
Commission  of £6,228.81 was paid to Lloyds in September 1993
The policy document from the time of the sale confirmed the fund switch charge on the PPP was as 
follows:
The administrative charge  for switching between standard Unit-Linked Funds (and switching 
from standard Funds to the With Profits Fund) is £28.15.  For switches out of the With Profits 
Fund the charge  is 1.00%  of the amount  switched  with a minimum of £28.15.
It also confirmed that commission was payable  on any subsequent  single premium contributions  at 
the rate of 5.2% to Lloyds.
The provider of the PPP provided  some correspondence from around the time of the sale, this 
included, amongst  other things:
A covering letter  dated 2 September 1993 from Lloyds confirming that a cheque for 
£119,784.91 was enclosed.
A letter from the ceding scheme to Lloyds dated 27 August 1993,  which said, in so far as 
relevant:
Thank you for your letter of the 21 July 1993.
I am pleased  to enclose the Trustees  cheque for £119,784.91 being the transfer 
value available in respect of [Mr Cs name] benefits with [name of employer].
The transfer  value includes  £4,725.23  in respect of Protected Rights,  and
£93,543.40 in respect of [Mr Cs name] self directed investment with [name  of 
employer].
A letter from the PPP provider to Lloyds dated 13 September 1993, which  said:
With reference to our telephone conversation of 8th September 1993, please confirm 
in writing exactly what the amount of £93,543.30 is in respect of and confirm that it is 
to be added to the above numbered policy.
The PPP provider then sent a further letter to Lloyds chasing for a response to the above.
Lloyds responded explaining:
Ref: DRN762810212Re our telephone conversation of 8-9-93 I write to confirm that the Self- Investment 
[name of scheme]  monies have arisen  from AVC contributions.
The ceding scheme  confirmed the details of its AVC scheme as:
As discussed, the SDI option was not a fund with charges. There  were  no charges 
per se as the member requested where their pension assets  were to be invested. The 
options were  very wide  commodities, shares, pooled  funds  etc, in fact anything  
which the Trust  Deed and Rules  allowed the Trustee to invest in. Once checked that 
it was a valid investment, the Trustee would  invest on the members behalf.  The 
member would then pay any required  dealing costs  but there would  have been no 
AMC or TER unless  they had chosen a pooled  fund (which was not common,  most  
members chose more  esoteric investments).
All of this information was shared with Lloyds. The adjudicator wrote to Lloyds on my behalf and 
explained that I remained of the view that: it is more likely than not that Lloyds did advise on the AVC 
transfer, if suitable  advice had been given in respect of the main  scheme benefits  it is most  likely that 
the AVCs would not have  been transferred and  in any case  the transfer was not suitable  as it led 
to Mr C unnecessarily  paying  a significant amount  of commission  and charges which could  have been  
avoided under his AVC account.
Lloyds responded. In summary it said that:
Mr Cs AVC account  was subject to dealing charges.
Mr C was and is financially astute and he would have made an informed decision about  
transferring.
There is insufficient evidence  that Lloyds  recommended  the transfer of Mr Cs AVCs.
Although the potential transfer of the AVCs  may only have been considered following  
discussion re the OPS  transfer, the transfer of the AVCs in isolation was suitable.
Mr C has not been financially disadvantaged by the AVC transfer because:
oHis AVC account would have incurred  dealing charges each time he changed  his 
chosen investments.
oBeing self-invested  his AVC account carried a high degree of risk and potentially 
high dealing charges each time Mr C adjusted his investments whereas his PPP 
had a known charge of 1% per annum.
oBy transferring to a PPP Mr C became entitled to 25% Tax Free Cash (AVC)  and, 
as he was likely to be a higher rate tax payer in retirement, potentially saved 
paying higher rate tax on 75% of his fund.
Mr Cs exposure to risk was reduced by transferring his AVCs  to a PPP, as his AVCs were  
self-invested and he would  have had to actively manage these.
Upon transfer Mr C changed his potentially high dealing charges  to a small known  charge of 
1%.
Mr C could have raised concerns about this at any stage for example when he was looking to 
join an AVC scheme with his new employer in 1996.
In terms of the proposed redress methodology: future investment  returns cannot be predicted 
at any time and it is not possible to know what a self-directed investment fund would have 
done without the use of hindsight, which  is clearly not appropriate.
Also, the difference  in charges between the AVC scheme  and the PPP is likely to have  been 
minimal and more than outweighed by the benefits of the funds being held in a PPP
Because agreement could not be reached this case has been passed back  to me for a further 
decision.
Ref: DRN762810213my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision  on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what  I consider is most  likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in respect of the 
individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant.
pension review compensation
I understand that Mr C feels strongly that the pension review compensation  paid was not enough and 
that some of the information  used was incorrect. I still dont  think that we should  revisit the 
calculations. Mr C accepted the redress in full and final settlement and, on the balance of the 
evidence; I am not persuaded that Lloyds  failed to compensate Mr C in line with the then regulators  
expectations.
I have thought  carefully about Mr Cs comments but I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the 
information provided  by the scheme.
Mr C raised concerns about the transfer value  of his OPS  benefits. There was a slight drop in it, which 
Mr C believes must be incorrect as it ought to have  risen  in the interim. Because  accrued  defined  
benefits dont have a fund value as such, the transfer value is based on the current  cash  equivalent 
value of the benefits  or, in other words, broadly  speaking the cost of purchasing  similar benefits on 
the open  market. Pension schemes use various  factors to calculate what  value to give the benefits. 
There are a myriad of reasons why that value  may drop and this is not necessarily indicative of an 
error.
Whilst I dont  think that the calculation should be revisited, I have taken  into account what
Mr C said about his wifes age being incorrect in the calculation. He says his wife was older than was 
recorded. I dont think this would have had a negative  impact on the redress Mr C received. I say this 
because the likely cost of providing an income  to a younger spouse is higher; as such any impact of 
this mistake on the compensation paid is likely to have  been positive.
sale of the AVCs
Lloyds remains of the view that there is insufficient evidence that it recommended the transfer of the 
AVCs. On the balance of the available evidence, I think that it is more likely  than not that Lloyds  did 
recommend that Mr C transfer his AVCs for the same reasons as set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN762810214Briefly, prior to Mr C applying to transfer his pension an illustration of potential benefits from the PPP 
was prepared as part of Lloyds advice process, this included the AVCs  in the value of the benefits 
being transferred. After  the application was completed Lloyds asked Mr C to sign a document  
confirming that he wanted his AVCs to be transferred to the PPP along  with a request and release 
form in respect of the main scheme benefits.  The funds from both the main  scheme and the AVCs 
were sent by one cheque to Lloyds by the OPS  administrator and it then sent these  to the PPP 
provider. Once the funds had been received  and the PPP commenced Lloyds confirmed both during  a 
telephone conversation  and, later, in writing  to the PPP provider that the funds  in addition to the main  
scheme benefits were  AVCs that were transferred alongside the main benefits.
Upon transfer Lloyds was paid 5.2% of the entire transfer value  including the AVCs  in 
commission.
I acknowledge that the application form refers only to the main OPS benefits  and indicates that no 
AVC benefits were to be transferred but this section of the form was completed by the scheme  
administrator not Mr C or Lloyds  and, in any case, I think that the above listed evidence far 
outweighs this.
Lloyds was Mr Cs adviser throughout this process, there is no indication that a different process was 
followed in respect of the AVCs.  Lloyds  has pointed to there being  a lack of evidence of advice on a 
number of occasions but, in this instance, this seems largely to be a result of it losing its file.
delay in transfer
As mentioned  above, there is very little information  from the point of sale;  this makes it challenging to 
piece together an exact timeline of events from start to finish. Based on what  we do have:
A comparison of various potential receiving schemes was produced (not entirely clear by 
whom) the document  isnt dated  but the sources used are dated between December 1991 
and 27 February 1992.
A form dated 10 February 1992 was filled out setting out the details of Mr Cs OPS  benefits 
and the transfer value.
On 14 May 1992,  Mr Cs OPS  administrator  sent Lloyds transfer information in respect of his 
benefits, including a transfer value that was valid until November 1992 only.
An illustration was prepared for Mr C in respect of the transfer of his pension  to the relevant  
PPP on 8 February 1993.
On 18 February 1993 the application form for the PPP was signed.
On 19 February 1993 a copy of the application  form was sent to Mr C by Lloyds.
The application form was signed by the administrator of the OPS scheme on 15 March  1993.
On 24 March 1993,  Lloyds  wrote to Mr C to confirm that the OPS  administrator had 
completed the relevant  part of the transfer application form and returned  this to the PPP 
provider. The letter went  on to request that Mr C sign a form of request and release in respect 
of his main pension benefits and confirmation that his AVC was also to be transferred.
The scheme sent the cheque with the transfer value to Lloyds  on 27 August 1993  (within that 
letter the scheme acknowledges  a letter  that it had received from Lloyds dated  21 July 1993 
but it is not clear  what that letter was about).
The cheque with the transfer value  was sent to the PPP provider on 2 September 1993  and 
this was received  on 6 September 1993.
The PPP commenced on 8 September 1993.
The above listed paperwork paints a picture of an advice  process which started, at the latest, around 
February 1992 and ended with the pension  transfer completing in September 1993. This,  of course, 
may not be the full picture given the absence of Lloyds  file. What is clear  is that this is a long time for 
such a process to take and there are long gaps within  that timeframe   but, what is not clear, from the 
available evidence, is what the cause of these gaps/delays was.
Ref: DRN762810215I understand that Mr C believes that Lloyds caused  these  delays, whilst I do not doubt  his 
recollections; I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for these  on the balance  of the 
available evidence.
suitability of the transfer
It is more likely than not that if Mr C had been given suitable advice in respect of his main scheme  
which would have been to remain in the OPS   his AVC benefits would  also have remained in OPS.
I dont think there was any need for Mr C to transfer his AVC benefits, upon transfer 5.2% commission  
was paid to Lloyds. Whilst the personal  pension  plan Mr C transferred  to was not expensive with a 
charge of 1%, the account  that his AVCs were held in did not have any charges for the account  itself.
Depending on what Mr C invested in he may have had to pay dealing  charges and/or investment 
charges but I think he could have mitigated these by choosing investments with no or low charges.
Lloyds has said that there were benefits of transferring to the PPP due to the restrictions that applied  
to AVC schemes at the time.  In addition, Mr C benefitted from the opportunity of taking TFC and other 
potential tax benefits. At the time of the advice Mr C was years away  from retirement,  there was no 
need to transfer at the time for these  potential at retirement  benefits. Mr C could  have waited  until he 
was close to or at retirement  when his circumstances at that point and the applicable legislation  would 
have been clear.
In turn, I remain of the view that suitable advice would  have been for Mr C to retain  his AVCs but I 
have amended the redress.  Due to the nature of Mr Cs AVC account  I dont think it would be right to 
try to establish a notional  value  as set out in my provisional decision   instead,  I think  using a 
benchmark as set out below will provide a reasonable  proxy for the investment performance Mr C is 
likely to have enjoyed if he had invested in a suitable  spread  of investments via his AVC account.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr C would  have  invested  differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely what he 
would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should Lloyds do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Lloyds should add interest as set out below. 
If there  is a loss, Lloyds should  pay into Mr Cs pension  plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.  
Ref: DRN762810216If Lloyds is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Cs pension plan, it should  pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Cs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lloyds  deducts  income tax from the interest it 
should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Lloyds should give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
monies 
transferred 
from Mr Cs 
OPS in 
respect of 
AVCstransferredFTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Lloyds totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
 Mr C wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  It would  be a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return. 
 Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Cs 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN762810217 The additional interest is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation money  since the 
end date.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add, as long as I receive  it by 8 August 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman..
Ref: DRN7628102