K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about advice given by McCrea  Financial Services Limited (McCrea) in 
connection with a self invested personal  pension (SIPP).  
background
Ive considered Mr Ms complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2020. Ive 
attached it and it forms part of this decision. 
Mr M said he accepted my provisional decision.  In the main his comments  related to how 
wed investigated his complaint and looked into the concerns hed raised. 
He did make some comments about  the SIPP providers  management  fees. He said he 
hadnt received  any settlement from the SIPP provider, although it had accepted  hed been  
overcharged. Hed requested information from the SIPP  provider which hadnt been 
provided, even though  hed made  a subject access report (SAR). The SAR had disclosed 
other customers details in breach of the data protection legislation as well as information  
about third parties  used  by the SIPP provider  without  Mr Ms knowledge or approval. Mr M 
added that he was still awaiting the response to his further SAR. He said he might  consider 
referring a complaint about the SIPP provider to us.
About the forged  signature Mr M reiterated that hed never said hed been disadvantaged,  
financially or otherwise  by it. He noted  and understood my reluctance to express  a view. 
Hed raised the matter  with the regulator  but had no response.  
McCrea only made one comment. It queried the 8% interest award on the excess fee of 
£288.04. It said that rate was very high, given low interest rates  generally  and investment 
returns over the years.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I apologise again for the length of time weve had this complaint. And Im sorry Mr M wasnt  
updated between  25 April 2019 and 3 June 2020  when I issued my provisional decision.  
Mr M remains unhappy with how weve handled his complaint.  But it isnt for me to address 
that here.  Im just dealing with his complaint about McCrea.  Any complaint he has about our 
service is a separate issue  and not part of my remit. 
I note all Mr M says about his dealings with the SIPP provider  and that he may decide to 
make a complaint  to the SIPP provider which, if it cant  be resolved, hell refer here. I dont  
think the points  hes raised impact  on my findings  in relation to his complaint  against 
McCrea. Im grateful for Mr Ms acceptance  as to why Im not going  to make any findings 
about the signature he says is forged. 
Ive considered what McCrea has said about the interest rate on the excess fee. But 8% is 
the current statutory  interest rate on judgement debts. We often use that rate where we think  
a consumer has been deprived  of the use of money. And even if it doesnt reflect  current 
Ref: DRN79935842interest rates or investment returns. Its simple, not compound, interest. And the consumer 
may be subject to income tax on the interest paid. I think 8% is appropriate  in this case. 
My findings  remain as set out in my attached provisional decision. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. 
McCrea Financial Services Limited  should  refund Mr M the excess  fee with interest as Ive 
set out in my attached provisional decision.  McCrea Financial Services Limited should also 
pay Mr M £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered in 
consequence of the failings identified  in my provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN79935843PROVISIONAL DECISION dated  3 June 2020
complaint
Mr Ms complains about  advice given  by McCrea  Financial Services Limited (McCrea) in connection 
with a self invested personal pension (SIPP).  
background
McCrea has been Mr Ms financial adviser  since about 2003. Mr M retired from full time employment 
in 2012. In 2013 McCrea  recommended that Mr M establish  a SIPP. Mr M says he was advised a 
SIPP drawdown arrangement  was better for him than an annuity. 
Mr M expressed some  concerns about how his SIPP was performing in 2014 and 2015.  In an email 
sent in March  2015 McCrea suggested, if the SIPP  was causing  Mr M stress and depression, he 
should consider buying an annuity. So, as Mr M saw it, less than two years after being  advised  to 
consolidate his pension arrangements into a SIPP  for which advice  Mr M had paid McCrea £7,000 
plus monthly management fees  McCrea was suggesting  he take the annuity option that hed been 
strongly advised against. Mr M further understood that he was entitled to two SIPP reviews a year.  
But McCrea maintained  it was only one. A number of other issues have arisen,  as detailed below. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaints. In his view dated  13 March 2018 the investigator 
said in summary:
The advice to take out the SIPP wasnt unsuitable. An annuity had been considered. But a 
SIPP offered more  income flexibility.  The balanced portfolio recommended  was also suitable  
and matched Mr Ms attitude to risk. It gave him the opportunity to generate  income to make 
up for any withdrawals hed made. 
McCrea may have later suggested that Mr M consider  an annuity. But Mr M hadnt acted  on 
that advice so there was nothing to put right. 
The recommendation letter set out thered be an initial charge of £7,000 to cover the costs of 
[the] review, recommendations  and implementation of the transfer. The fee and what  it would 
cover was clear.
The adviser, in the recommendation letter, had referred to a review  every six months.  But that 
was just a suggestion. There was no contractual guarantee  or obligation that Mr M would  
receive a review every six months. 
The SIPP  provider had identified  that Mr M had been overcharged and was considering if a 
refund was due. But that didnt mean McCrea had done anything wrong. If the SIPP providers 
conclusions indicated otherwise then we could  look into that further. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions.  Theres been considerable  further 
correspondence. A lot of it centres  on what Mr M sees as the investigators failure to answer 
questions Mr M has raised. Mr Ms position is that until he gets what he regards as satisfactory 
answers to his questions, all of which  are relevant  to his complaint, he cant respond to the 
investigators view and set out the matters  he wants an ombudsman  to consider. 
Ive set out my understanding of Mr Ms position under several headings. I havent included every 
comment hes made, just what I see as his main points.     
reviews
Mr M says hes entitled  to two SIPP  reviews a year. Hes provided  evidence to show that but 
thats been dismissed. 
First hes referred  to the investment recommendations document.  It said:
Ref: DRN79935844At McCrea's, we operate a Wealth Management Review service, where we agree with clients 
how frequently we meet each year,  the services we provide and also the fees involved.  If I 
could suggest as you are nearing retirement, if we were  to review matters for you every six 
months, this would ensure  you are kept fully up to date.
Mr M also points to a written apology from McCrea  because the adviser had misinformed Mr 
M that thered be two reviews a year. It said: 
The payment of the ongoing  adviser  charge of 0.75% per annum  is for the servicing  of your 
pension plan and covers the costs for one annual review each year as well as
ongoing administrative support. I apologise  if [the adviser] led you to believe this would cover 
two reviews a year, however, you can contact us anytime throughout the year with any 
queries that you may have.
Mr M also produced an extract  from a letter from McCrea in 2014  which included the 
following. 
Regular Reviews
As discussed, changes will occasionally need to be made to the funds you hold and
the amounts invested in them. This will form part of our annual review process, the
cost of which  would met by the existing  adviser  ongoing fee.
As I am now looking after your affairs again  I will ensure regular reviews are carried
out each year.
The last sentence refers  to reviews - in the plural.  So that was a minimum  of two. And each 
year meant  every year and all years thereafter.  
The investigator had referred to contractual guarantees  and obligations. Mr M had asked for a 
copy of the contract setting  out thered only be one review  a year.  But it hadnt been produced 
and didnt  exist. Further the investigator had said the recommendation letter was key. It didnt 
say thered be any reviews per year. So it seemed  the investigator  was suggesting thered be 
no reviews. Hed concluded there was no agreement to provide  two reviews a year as the 
documents didnt say that. But neither  did they say thered only be one review a year.  Or for 
that matter, that reviews  would only take place every  two or five years. The investigator had 
referred to McCreas comment about it being standard practice to hold annual review 
meetings  that was plural and so denoted more than one review  would take place annually.
It wasnt correct  for McCrea to say that since  2013 reviews happened at least  once a year. In 
2016 thered  been no review. The substituted adviser hadnt been able to access  Mr Ms 
details. 
McCreas fees for setting up the SIPP
McCrea had overcharged him. The client agreement and the pensions  recommendation 
document were contradictory. The (signed) client agreement  (dated 26 June 2013) identified 
the set up costs  as 3% of the residual  investment sum of £223,732.00. That was £6,711.96. 
McCrea then claimed a higher fee - £7,000  from the SIPP provider. 
That was the fee set out in the (unsigned) 244 page pensions recommendation  document  
presented to Mr M and his wife after theyd signed the client agreement.  A financially illiterate  
pensioner (Mr Ms terminology) shouldnt  have  to check through  that very lengthy document  
to make sure the fee set out was the same  as their trusted financial adviser  had previously 
advised and which theyd agreed  to. The client agreement is legally binding  and cannot  be 
irrelevant. 
If documents contradict  each  other  they cant carry equal  weight or all be legally binding. The 
investigator had only more recently conceded that, if the documents were contradictory,  wed 
Ref: DRN79935845need to consider if one carried more weight than another. The pensions  recommendation 
document was no more  than a sales brochure. Anything  that wasnt in writing and signed and 
dated by the parties should be disregarded.
Presenting a payment invoice to the SIPP provider  without informing Mr M and his wife that 
the payment the adviser had applied  for was more  than the sum agreed in the signed client 
agreement amounted  to theft.
The investigator had suggested the £7,000 fee had been factored into the monthly  charging  
structure. That wasnt  correct. The fee was an Initial Adviser Charge and was carried out as 
a manual instruction  on 5 August 2013, a transfer by the SIPP provider to McCrea,  the three 
transfers from the three different insurance  companies having taken place on or around 19 
July 2013. 
the SIPP  providers charges  and who is responsible  for due diligence
 
In 2017 Mr M discovered, by accident, that the SIPP  provider was charging him 50% more in 
charges (0.45% instead of 0.3%) than had been arranged with the SIPP provider  by McCrea.  
The adviser  had negotiated the terms of the setting up of the SIPP, including the SIPP 
providers annual charges. Those management fees had been substantially  overcharged 
since the SIPP had been set up. That overcharging would  have continued  indefinitely if Mr M 
hadnt discovered it. 
Mr M produced a spreadsheet  from the SIPP  provider. It shows the overcharging by listing  the 
actual monthly charges deduced from the SIPP and the corrected charges. As an example, 
the monthly charge  taken on 31 May 2017 was 82.46% more  than the correct  charge. 
Mr M queried whether the adviser has any responsibility to ensure  the SIPP,  including the 
charges the adviser  had negotiated with the SIPP provider,  had been correctly set up  that 
is, whether the due diligence relating to the pension  plan arranged between  an adviser and a 
provider is the responsibility the adviser or the financially illiterate  pensioner.
The adviser  hadnt  ensured the SIPP arrangements were implemented correctly  at set up, 
despite being  paid a £7,000 fee. Hed been  negligent, resulting in illegal and excessive 
charges being applied to Mr Ms pension plan.  
Mr M didnt agree that whether McCrea was responsible for what happened with the charges  
on his SIPP would depend  on what the SIPP  provider  concluded.  He said that issue was 
within our remit and hed provided emails  between him and the SIPP provider  which 
illustrated that McCrea had been negligent. 
The investigator had said that a customer cant  receive double compensation. Mr M had 
never asked for that and the SIPP provider  hadnt paid him any compensation. Mr M said hed 
simply demonstrated  that the adviser  was negligent in the setting  up of the SIPP.
The investigator had been asked whose responsibility it was to check  the SIPP had been set 
up correctly. Hed replied  saying it wasnt up to an adviser to monitor, on a month by month 
basis, if the fees were  being  applied correctly. But that wasnt the question  it was whether 
the adviser should check the SIPP  had been correctly  set up, including  fees. Almost  a year 
after being  repeatedly asked that question the investigator  had conceded  that it was the 
advisers responsibility to ensure that the initial  arrangements agreed regarding  
commission/fees with the SIPP  provider had been implemented correctly.
Mr M wanted the SIPP terms and conditions  so he could check  the SIPP providers 
responsibilities. The investigator had been asked if hed seen a copy of the terms of the 
agreement negotiated between McCrea and the SIPP provider  and to provide a copy. The 
Ref: DRN79935846investigator agreed, subject to it not being commercially sensitive information.  Mr M said there 
couldnt possibly  be any information about his pension  plan, commercially sensitive or not, 
which he wasnt entitled to have. But wed refused to supply it. 
Contradictory information about the charges  was supplied. The charges page  from the key 
facts document included  in the 244 page  pensions recommendation letter  contradicts the 
agreement on charges between the adviser  and the SIPP provider and the charges noted on 
a different page of the same document.  
complaint made by McCrea  to the SIPP provider
Mr M had asked us to investigate why McCrea had made a formal  complaint to the SIPP 
provider in 2014, within a year of the SIPP being set up. And why McCrea had sought  
financial compensation from the SIPP  provider  to be paid to it, not into Mr Ms pension fund. 
McCreas letter dated 26th February 2015 was irrelevant. It says a number of things about the 
two products (Mr Ms original SIPP arrangement and the new plan that he switched to). The 
letter says theres nothing for Mr M to do. What it doesnt  say is that a complaint had been 
made by McCrea to the SIPP  provider  and why compensation had been sought  from the 
SIPP provider to be paid to McCrea and not into Mr Ms pension fund. McCrea  hadnt told Mr 
M a complaint had been made. Had Mr M wanted  to pursue a complaint, it would have been 
time barred  by the time he came to be aware of it.  
Mr M didnt agree it was a separate complaint.  But he said hed make a formal complaint to 
McCrea and, when it was rejected hed refer it here, to be looked into by a different 
investigator. 
what constitutes advice
In an email sent to Mr M in March 2015 McCrea  said:
Regarding the other points  mentioned if the pension is causing stress  and depression  can I 
suggest it may be time to look at the alternatives available such as annuity purchase.  While 
annuities have certain  features that are not attractive it would provide you with a guaranteed 
level of income,  no Investment content  and would  put the matter of the pension to rest once 
and for all. Please  let me know if this is something you would like to pursue  as it is clear from 
your emails that the current set up is giving  you great concerns and possible health issues.
The investigator had drawn a distinction between the recommendation  to set up the SIPP and 
what had been said about Mr M switching to an annuity. The investigator had said the first 
was advice  but the second wasnt. And hed initially said the advisers comments about an 
annuity werent  advice but off the cuff or flippant  remarks. Mr M asked for an explanation of 
the difference between a pensioner  client, sitting at a face to face meeting with an adviser  and 
being advised to set up a SIPP  (at substantial cost) and the same pensioner client,  at another 
face to face meeting, being  the adviser  being told to change to an annuity if the SIPP was 
causing stress, depression or health issues. 
The investigator had later tried to say there was a difference  between  formal and informal  
advice. But on both occasions the advice had been given  in writing and in an office 
environment. And it wasnt right to say the advice process hadnt  been followed  as no fact find 
had been carried out for the annuity advice. Mr M and his wife had been clients for more  than 
ten years before the SIPP advice  was given. Regular meetings took place and at each the 
adviser conducted  a fact find. He probably  knew more about  Mr Ms financial and personal 
circumstances than about any other client. 
For example,  the 2014 letter referred to above was part of a financial review  sent as a follow  
up to a meeting where a detailed  fact find had been carried out. The letter  contained detailed 
Ref: DRN79935847personal and financial information so Mr M hadnt supplied a full copy.  But it constituted  a fact 
find. That sort of meeting  had been  taking  place  annually for at least  ten years  before Mr M 
agreed, on McCreas  advice,  to implement  the SIPP.
Mr M and his wife didnt  accept the annuity advice  as there was no economic reasons for 
doing so and nor did they wish to deplete further their reducing pension pot with additional 
substantial set up fees.
It couldnt  be right to say that advice could  only be contradictory if it was given at the same 
time. 
Mr M also referred to what McCrea  said in letters sent to Mr M in April and September 2017.  
Mr M said it amounted to advice that he shouldnt have accepted the original recommendation 
from another of McCreas directors/advisers  (and for which Mr M paid a substantial set up fee, 
ongoing advice charges as well as the SIPP  providers charges). 
the forged signature
The documents the investigator had supplied included a terms of business  document  dated  
23 January 2005  which Mr M had only seen for the first time on 4 April 2018.  The signature 
on the document wasnt his. Nor had he printed  his name above the signature.
Mr M supplied some contemporaneous examples of his signature and his hand written print 
style. He suggested  a firm that would present a forged  document to this service would  be 
likely to try to increase its charges when  presenting client agreement documents  for signature 
on two separate occasions. 
Mr M complained to McCrea about it. McCrea wrote to Mr M on 29 June 2018 acknowledging  
his further  complaint  (that his signature had been  forged on the document  referred to) and 
saying it would  be reviewed. Hed received an identical  letter  dated 9 August 2018 but as far 
as Im aware nothing  further. 
 
The investigator had said Mr M hadnt  suffered  any financial loss in consequence. But Mr M 
had never  suggested that or sought compensation. His point  was that any adviser whod  do 
that sort of thing was also capable  of stealing from a pensioner clients pension  fund. 
The investigator had also concluded, having examined the signature which Mr M had said 
wasnt his, that it wasnt dissimilar enough to cause concern. Mr M pointed out that a forgery 
would be aimed at trying to make it look as similar  as possible to the genuine signature.  But in 
this case  the signatures werent  even close.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear that Mr M isnt happy  with how weve  handled  his complaint. Im not dealing here with that. 
As Mr M has been informed,  a complaint about our service  will be dealt with separately.  But I am 
sorry it has taken more time than wed have  liked to reach this stage  of our process. I apologise to 
both parties  for that. Im also sorry to note what Mr M has said about  his health having  been affected 
by this matter. 
Ive read and considered very carefully  all Mr M and McCrea has said.  But Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the main  issues.  So I havent referred to or commented on each and every point thats 
been made. Mr M may not like that approach. Hes been frustrated because  he feels  he hasnt had 
satisfactory answers to the questions hes posed, all of which he considers are relevant  to his 
complaint. But my role isnt to answer  Mr Ms questions but to decide  his complaint. So my focus isnt 
Ref: DRN79935848on providing  Mr M with answers to all the questions hes raised but on determining his complaint by 
reference to whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  That said Ive paid attention to all of 
Mr Ms questions,  even if I havent answered  them directly. 
Mr M has mentioned  possible court  proceedings. He considers theres been theft from his pension  
fund by McCrea and the SIPP  provider. Hes been advised hed be able to raise a court action   the 
equivalent in Scotland of the small  claims  court in England and Wales.  That includes the opportunity 
to call witnesses whose attendance can be compelled. As far as I understand,  Mr M hasnt yet 
instigated any proceedings  and will await the outcome of his complaint. If he accepts  a final decision it 
will become legally binding on him and McCrea. And that will impact on his ability to bring any legal 
proceedings. If Mr M doesnt accept the final decision then it wont be binding  and hell be free pursue 
the matter by any alternative means he considers appropriate and available, including  legal action.  
reviews
Mr M was paying a fee for ongoing advice, which  included reviewing his SIPP.  McCrea accepts that 
included an annual review. The issue is whether  more frequent reviews  two reviews  a year  were 
agreed. 
Ive considered first the evidence Mr Ms pointed to, starting  with the investment recommendations 
document. But I dont think the section  Mr M has quoted amounts to an agreement  to review his 
investments every six months.  In my view its more a suggestion that McCrea recommended twice 
yearly reviews. So it evidences thats what McCrea would  recommend, not that two reviews a year 
were actually  agreed. 
And, in any event, even if there was an agreement in place at some stage to review Mr Ms 
investments twice a year, I dont think that would mean that a similar agreement must have been 
reached in respect  of Mr Ms SIPP. How often the SIPP was reviewed  would  depend  on several 
issues, including the type of investments held,  the amount  and frequency  of any withdrawals and the 
cost of providing such reviews. So I dont think the investment recommendations document is directly 
relevant here. 
Ive considered carefully the apology that Mr M received from McCrea. Im conscious an apology 
might amount to an admission  that two reviews a year had in fact been promised. What I mean  is if, in 
discussions with Mr M and his wife, the adviser said Mr Ms SIPP would be reviewed  twice  a year,  that 
could amount  to an offer creating an oral contract to provide six monthly  reviews.  And an apology 
could be an admittance of an agreement having been  reached which  was then breached. 
But I think that would be reading too much into the apology. I think  it was aimed more  at 
acknowledging Mr Ms unhappiness and recognising  there might have been some misunderstanding 
about what had been discussed and/or  agreed about how often Mr Ms SIPP would  be reviewed. I 
dont think it can be fairly construed as admitting that Mr M was offered two reviews a year. 
Mr M has also pointed to the 2014 letter. The first paragraph of the Regular Review section that Mr 
M has quoted refers to our annual  review process. I think thats  clear. It denotes one review carried 
out once a year. The letter goes on to say the adviser will ensure  that regular reviews are carried  out 
each year. I dont think the use of the plural  creates an obligation to carry  out more than one review a 
year. As Ive said, it was clear that what was under  discussion was the annual review process   so 
one review, once a year.  It might have been more  precise for the adviser to have said hed ensure a 
review was carried out each year. But reviews could denote the cumulative reviews carried  out, once 
a year,  but over several years. I think its clear that what was under discussion was the annual review 
process which, by definition,  means one review each year. 
So Im not going to conclude, from the evidence Mr M has specifically pointed to, that two reviews a 
year were agreed. 
Ref: DRN79935849Ive looked at what  other evidence there is. Ive taken into account  what  Mr M and his wife say about 
what was discussed. I note they didnt  think the meetings were minuted. But it seems McCrea did 
make file notes, some  of which McCrea has produced. Mr Ms position is these  hadnt previously  been 
shared with him and his wife and they had no opportunity to say whether  they agreed or disagreed 
with the content and so should the notes should be disregarded.  But as none have been produced 
which apparently record any conversations about  the number  of SIPP reviews then they dont add 
much, regardless of whether Mr M says the notes are accurate or not.  
Mr Ms understanding may have been that his SIPP was to be reviewed twice  a year.  But Id need to 
be satisfied  an agreement to that effect  was reached. The situation might be more akin to what Ive 
set out about the investments recommendation document: In discussions McCreas  adviser may have  
recommended twice  yearly reviews but that doesnt mean an agreement to that effect was actually 
reached. I dont disagree with what the investigator said about annual reviews being  the industry 
norm. If something different  was agreed, Id expect  that to have been recorded  in writing. Although I 
dont dispute Mr Ms recollections, I dont think thats enough to make a finding  that McCrea agreed to 
undertake two SIPP reviews a year. 
I havent seen anything in the various  contemporaneous documents  which sets out how frequently Mr 
Ms SIPP would be reviewed. Theres  the client agreement which  Mr M and his wife signed on 26 
June 2013. Other versions have been produced but I think the June 2013 version is relevant  here. 
And theres the pensions recommendation document. Ive set out below what both say about  initial 
fees and ongoing adviser charges. Thats because Mr M has said he and his wife understood  the fee 
paid for the initial advice included a couple of six monthly reviews for the new SIPP. But Ive dealt 
separately below with whether Mr M was overcharged in respect  of the initial advice fee.  
Looking first at the client agreement, on page  3 it said, under the heading What will you have to pay 
us for our services?  that thered be an adviser  charge for an initial advice service and, if selected, 
ongoing services. For the initial advice service,  information  about  circumstances and needs would  first 
be gathered for which  thered (usually)  be no charge.  
And, after that, thered  be a one off adviser  charge as a percentage of the initial investment amount. If 
that was between  £50,000 and £500,000 that would  be 3%, subject to a minimum of £1,500 and a 
maximum of £15,000.  An example was given  a lump sum investment in a personal pension of 
£100,000 would result  in an adviser  charge  of £3,000. The client would be told the amount of the 
initial adviser  charge  before  completing the investment  but could ask for the information  earlier. 
The client agreement continued (after referring to an alternative of a charge based on time spent at 
the rates  set out) about  payment for ongoing  services, saying: 
There will be an additional  charge for any ongoing work, such  as periodic  or ongoing  reviews we 
carry out on your behalf. We will confirm the rate, frequency and length of any ongoing service(s) 
before commencing that ongoing service. The ongoing services offered were listed, and the following 
was added:
More details  on the services we offer will be provided  separately.
We have  a range of ongoing services we can provide  to ensure that your personal
recommendation is reviewed frequently and remains relevant to your changing
circumstances. The frequency and amount of the charge will depend  on the service  you
choose and can normally  be deducted from your Investment/Pension or alternatively the
charge can be paid by standing order. Ask your adviser for more details.
So although reviews were  mentioned there was nothing explicit about  how often Mr Ms SIPP would 
be reviewed. So I dont think the client  agreement  assists as to the number of reviews agreed.  
Turning to the pensions recommendations document, it said, under the heading Annual  Reviews  it 
was important  that the drawdown  arrangement is reviewed at least once a year to consider the 
factors set out. That suggests that the default position  is one review per year.  
Ref: DRN799358410Section 10 of the report dealt with charges/costs. Page 24 said an initial  charge of £7,000 of the 
transfer value will be applied to cover the costs  of the review, recommendations and implementation  
of the transfer (as detailed in Section  11). I dont think the reference there to review could be 
construed as meaning  that the initial charge included any reviews  of any new arrangement 
implemented. I think it was clearly a reference to reviewing Mr Ms existing arrangements  before 
recommending any changes.  
I dont think the pensions recommendations document said anything  else which might assist. But for 
completeness and as its relevant to the next aspect of Mr Ms complaint Ive set it out. 
 
Section 11 was headed: McCreas Remuneration/Payment for Advice.  It said fees could either be 
paid directly or deducted  from the value of the pension. Under the heading Fee  it said the initial fee 
paid is paid as an initial charge deducted  from the value of the products or built into the ongoing 
charges, depending on the product. Alternatively  the fee could be paid direct. In a box in bold it said 
the fee for the SIPP based  on an investment of £298,310 was a fixed fee of £7,000.
About ongoing servicing remuneration it continued:
While your SIPP remains  solely invested  in Cash deposits, we will not deduct any annual charges to 
cover costs of review  unless agreed with you separately and servicing from the STPP investments.
We reserve the right to review this should your investment strategy change  and would agree  the 
appropriate ongoing servicing remuneration at that tune.  This would  typically be around, (again set 
out in a bold box) for a SIPP with an investment  of £223,752, 0.75%.
Im also somewhat surprised, if Mr M thought hed be getting two reviews a year since 2013 and that 
didnt happen soon after the SIPP had been set up, why he didnt raise  that with McCrea.  Ive seen 
an email from Mr M to the adviser on 26 June  2014  in which Mr M says as it is now nearly a year 
since we set [the SIPP)  up and presumably a revaluation would be appropriate. That doesnt suggest 
that Mr M thought a review was overdue and should  have  been carried  out within six months of the 
SIPP being set up.
I also note what happened in 2016. A meeting was scheduled for 31 August 2016  but the adviser was 
unavailable (although Mr M and his wife hadnt been told that beforehand  and which might have 
spared them an abortive visit). So another adviser  would carry  out the review. But he was unable to 
access Mr Ms pension account.  After struggling  to view it on Mr Ms mobile phone, Mr M and his wife 
left. 
They heard nothing further until 6 January 2017  when some review documents arrived.  Mr M then 
wrote to McCrea  on 21 March 2017 (which letter McCrea says it didnt get) with a copy  on 9 April 
2017 which led McCrea to tell Mr M that it was no longer  prepared to act for him. Again  Id have 
thought, if Mr Ms position was that he should have been getting  two reviews a year, hed have made 
that point  then to McCrea rather than expressing dissatisfaction with the one review that had been  
scheduled. 
Mr Ms also pointed to the client agreements sent to him and his wife for signature in 2015 and 2016. 
Mr M says McCrea  had inserted  an increase to the ongoing  advice fee without informing  him and his 
wife. They spotted the increase and McCrea had to amend  the client agreements. Mr M regards this 
as a deliberate attempt by McCrea to increase its charges. 
But I note that the client agreement was preprinted and said that for administering  clients investment 
and pension  portfolios McCreas charges consisted of an ongoing adviser  charge based on the value 
of the portfolio of assets under review. For a portfolio valued up to £500,000, the agreement  (as 
preprinted) said the charge was 1% subject to a minimum  of £750. But a charge of 0.75% had been 
agreed in Mr Ms case  and so a manual amendment to the printed  client agreement  was necessary to 
reflect that. I dont expect Mr M to agree  but sending  the unaltered client agreement may just have 
been an oversight on McCreas part, notwithstanding it happened twice. 
Ref: DRN799358411Mr M has also said he and his wife were unaware that the 0.75% on going  advice charge  was payable 
as soon as the SIPP was set up. But, unless the SIPP remained invested in cash deposits, I dont 
think there was anything  to suggest that the charge might not be payable until a later stage. So I dont 
think Mr M was misled  on this point. If he wasnt happy with the service  he was getting  for the ongoing  
advice charge  he could have stopped it at any time.  
All in all Im unable  to say McCrea promised  Mr M two SIPP reviews a year and so Im not upholding 
this aspect of the complaint.   But I do think McCrea should pay some compensation  for inconvenience 
Mr M and his wife suffered  as a result of the abortive 2016 review meeting. Ive factored  that into the 
award Ive made below. 
McCreas fees for setting up the SIPP
This aspect of Mr Ms complaint relates to McCreas initial fee of £7,000, paid by the SIPP provider  to 
McCrea in August  2013. Ive set out above what the 26 June 2013 client agreement said.  And what 
the (unsigned) pensions recommendation  document said, which was different. Essentially from the 
client agreement it appeared McCreas fee would  be 3% of the initial investment amount  (where, as 
here, that was between  £50,000 and £500,000). Mr M says thats 3% of £223,732.00  which is 
£6,711.96, some  £288.04 less than the £7,000 that he actually paid and as set out in the pensions 
recommendation document. 
I can understand what Mr M says about the length  of that  some 244 pages if the supporting  
documents are included. But the charge  of £7,000 was clearly set out. Page 24 said that an initial 
charge of £7,000 of the transfer value will be applied  to cover the costs  of the review,  
recommendations and implementation of the transfer (as detailed in Section 11). And in that section 
the fixed  fee of £7,000 was prominently set out. 
The pension  recommendation document was issued after the client agreement. So McCrea might 
argue that the client agreement was in effect superseded and the pension recommendation  document 
set out the updated fees. And it is the case that the higher fee was shown and clearly too  the higher 
fee wasnt  simply  imposed and without  any notice  at all to Mr M.  
But I dont regard it as entirely satisfactory for a client to sign an agreement to pay a fee and for that 
to then change without that alteration  and here an increase - having been  expressly brought  to the 
clients attention and the client  agreeing  to the revised fee. I think  McCrea should have  pointed out to 
Mr M that its fee for setting  up the SIPP  was £7,000 and not, as previously  advised and agreed to by 
Mr M (and his wife) 3% of the sum invested. The difference may not be huge.  But I dont think  thats 
really the point. 
Against that background Id agree with Mr M that the signed client agreement  did in effect carry more  
weight. It set out what had been agreed to by the parties. I dont think its far for that agreement  to be 
overturned simply by including a different and higher fee in the pensions  recommendation document 
(notwithstanding how prominently it may have been displayed) and by Mr M not seeing  the charges 
were higher or, if he did, not objecting to that. 
I recognise it may simply have been an oversight on McCreas part. But however the discrepancy 
arose I dont  think it was fair for Mr M to have to pay a higher fee than had been agreed at the outset.  
So Im upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. Notwithstanding that the (excess) payment came 
out of Mr Ms pension  fund I think  it would  be simplest for McCrea to simply refund the difference 
direct to Mr M and add interest at 8% pa from the date the fee was deducted to the date of payment. If 
McCrea considers tax from the interest award should be deducted it should  provide Mr M, if 
requested, with a tax deduction certificate. 
the SIPP  providers charges  and who is responsible  for due diligence   
Ref: DRN799358412Mr M has suggested  that what the SIPP provider has to say about  what happened is irrelevant. I dont 
agree. We often get complaints which involve another party or parties, against whom no complaint  
has been made. In investigating the complaint we have well make whatever  enquiries we consider  
are necessary, not just of the complainant and the respondent, but of any other party involved to 
establish whats  happened  and if the party  against whom the complaint has been made is responsible 
for whats gone wrong. So Ive taken into account what the SIPP  provider has said about  what  
happened. 
As I understand it, the SIPP providers usual annual  management charge for the plan McCrea 
arranged for Mr M was 0.4%. But McCrea had negotiated a discount with the SIPP provider to 0.3%. 
So Mr M would pay that lower management charge.  I note what Mr Ms said about conflicting 
information about the SIPP operators charges having  been given in the documents Mr M got when  
the SIPP  was being set up. But I dont  think theres any dispute that Mr M understood the SIPP 
providers charge  would be 0.3%. 
It seems things got confused in 2014 when Mr M switched to a different product with the same SIPP 
provider  Ive gone into that in more detail  below. The SIPP provider didnt think  the discount would 
continue to apply to the new product. But the SIPP provider has since agreed to honour the discount.
But, and that aside, it looks like the SIPP provider  has overcharged Mr M from the outset (0.45% 
instead of the agreed 3%). The spreadsheet Mr M supplied from the SIPP provider sets out the 
charges initially applied against  the correct  0.3% charge. Mr M has been  overcharged each month 
from inception of the SIPP  in July 2013  until November 2017. A refund of £901.58 was calculated. Im 
not sure if thats been implemented. I think there may have been a further issue in December 2017 
when McCrea  notified the SIPP provider  that it was no longer Mr Ms adviser  and the SIPP provider 
adjusted the charges. Im not sure if any (further)  error  has been  rectified. But I think if theres any 
issue about any charging errors not being corrected then thats a matter for Mr M to pursue  with the 
SIPP provider. 
Mr M discovered by accident that hed been overcharged. In March 2015 the SIPP provider had 
written to him with a confirmation of application in relation to the new product Mr M had been 
switched to. Ive explained  more about how that switch arose below.  The document sent in March 
2015 said the charges for Mr Ms fund size were 0.45%. That 50% increase in fees wasnt  picked up 
by Mr M or McCrea  until Mr M, by chance,  saw it in an online document in early  2017 and queried it 
directly with the SIPP provider.  
And, as Ive said, that wouldnt explain  why the charges had been overstated  since inception  of the 
SIPP, rather than just from the product  switch.  But whats important is that the SIPP provider has 
recognised its errors and has confirmed it is prepared  to honour  the discount and reduce  the charges 
from inception to 0.3%.  So  I dont think Mr Ms suffered any financial loss. 
But Mr M wants to know if McCrea is responsible  for the fact that he was overcharged.  His position is 
that the adviser should have checked that the SIPP  had been set up correctly, including the charges - 
especially as the adviser was paid a fee of £7,000 for setting up the SIPP. 
Mr M has queried whether responsibility should fall on the consumer (or, as Mr M puts it, the 
financially illiterate pensioner) or the adviser.
But I dont think it would be right to say either is really  directly responsible. I think it was more down to 
the SIPP  provider. I think the adviser was entitled to expect the product provider to set up the plan up 
correctly, including the agreed  charges.  Here the SIPP  provider seems to accept it didnt get the 
charges right. Theres no suggestion that errors  arose because of incorrect information  from McCrea 
or something else that McCrea did wrong. 
I understand Mr Ms point about  it being  him that spotted (by chance) the overcharging and that, if he 
hadnt, the overcharging might have continued indefinitely. But I think  that its usually the consumer 
thats best placed  to notice any discrepancy or overcharging. The adviser may not get copies of the 
Ref: DRN799358413statements and wont scrutinise them on a month by month  basis.  So, quite often, it will be the client 
who queries  the charges.  
But, although  my starting point is that primary  responsibility for setting up the plan falls on the product  
provider and I think an adviser is probably entitled  to expect thats been done correctly,  I dont think  
that means an adviser is never expect to check that charges have been applied correctly. And in this 
case I think there are two reasons why McCrea should have checked. 
First, Ive set out in the next section  what  happened in 2014 when the SIPP providers fund choice 
became restricted  and Mr M switched to an alternative product. Mr Ms explained  the new product 
details which were issued showed incorrect charges which he didnt, at the time,  notice.  Im not sure if 
the details were  copied  to McCrea. But even if they werent I think the information was available on 
line and McCrea had access to Mr Ms pension  account.  Given  that thered been a product switch and 
discussion about the charges continuing as before, I think it would have been prudent for McCrea to 
have checked that the charges for the new product had been correctly  set up and in line with the 
original agreement  and product. 
Secondly, Id have expected McCrea to have  checked  the charges that Mr M was paying  when his 
SIPP was reviewed, particularly  as it seems  he was disappointed with performance and worried that 
his fund was being depleted. Examination  of the returns achieved should include the impact of 
charges. And, particularly given the product switch, I think McCrea should  have been alive to the 
possibility that an error had arisen. If the charges had been scrutinised  that would presumably  have 
led to the discovery that Mr M had been overcharged from inception  and not just since the product 
switch. 
As Ive said,  I dont think Mr M has suffered any financial  loss, given that it seems the SIPP provider is 
prepared to honour the discounted  0.3% from inception. But I think Mr M has been caused some 
distress and inconvenience  because of McCreas failure to check  what  the charges that had been 
deducted. Ive made an award below. 
Lastly Mr Ms said he wants sight of the SIPP terms and conditions.  I dont think they are 
commercially sensitive. Id have thought Mr M would  have got a copy  when his SIPP  was established. 
If hes missing a copy he can ask the SIPP provider.  Im not sure if Mr M was seeking  details 
surrounding the agreement  reached  between McCrea and the SIPP operator in relation  to the 10% 
discount against the SIPP providers fees.  Given theres no dispute that the SIPP operator agreed to 
accept a reduced fee and is prepared to honour that, I dont see that any further details  are required.  
complaint made by McCrea  to the SIPP provider
Mr M says he asked us to investigate  why McCrea had made a formal complaint  to the SIPP provider 
within a year of it being set up. And why McCrea had sought  financial compensation  from the SIPP 
provider to be paid to it, and not into Mr Ms pension  fund. 
As to what happened, in 2014 (August I think) McCrea got in contact with the SIPP provider. McCrea  
was concerned that the SIPP provider  had decided to restrict the number of funds  available under Mr 
Ms particular SIPP contract. That didnt  affect  Mr M directly as the funds  he held remained available. 
But future fund choice was restricted. McCrea agreed with the SIPP provider to move Mr Ms funds to 
a different plan with the provider  with the contract charges remaining the same. 
McCrea wrote to Mr M on 26 February 2015, explaining what  had happened. McCrea stressed it 
wasnt a pension  transfer; McCrea wasnt be paid for the transaction and wasnt making any charge  to 
Mr M and McCreas existing fee arrangement with him remained unaffected. Nor was the SIPP 
provider making any charge. There was nothing  for Mr M to do but hed get a new policy  number. The 
SIPP provider would email that to him and hed get two letters from the SIPP provider with details of 
the conversion and confirmation it had taken place. 
Ref: DRN799358414Mr Ms concern isnt about so much about what the letter said but what  it didnt. And, in particular, that 
he wasnt told that the SIPP provider had treated  McCreas contact as a formal complaint made  by 
McCrea on Mr Ms behalf.  And that the SIPP provider had issued a final response letter  on 12 
December 2014 to McCrea.  The letter didnt uphold the complaint and went  on to say that the SIPP 
provider wouldnt be making any payments to you [ie McCrea] as requested in your [ie McCreas] 
letter. The letter concluded by giving referral rights to this service   which needed  to be exercised 
within six months of the date of the letter. 
Mr M has queried why McCrea made that complaint; why McCrea requested payment of 
compensation to it, rather than into Mr Ms pension  fund;  why McCrea  didnt inform  Mr M about  the 
complaint; and why he wasnt given the opportunity to refer the matter here within the six month 
deadline. 
First, I think its clear McCrea got in contact  with the SIPP  provider  when McCrea found out that the 
available funds were  to be reduced. Secondly, the SIPP provider has confirmed the reference to 
compensation in the final response  letter was a reference to any loss on Mr Ms plan  not to 
compensation payable to McCrea.  And no payments were made  anyway. As to why McCrea didnt 
inform Mr M about the complaint, Im not sure that McCrea expected the SIPP  provider to treat the 
matter as a formal complaint and issue a final response letter. And it seemed  the matter had been 
sorted out and Mr Ms arrangement  would continue as before. So there was nothing  for him to do or 
indeed complain  about   he wouldnt (and leaving aside any charges  errors actually made) suffer 
financially as a result  of what had happened and the solution agreed. 
I can understand McCreas  approach. But I think strictly speaking McCrea should  have told Mr M that 
the SIPP  provider had dealt  with the issue as a formal complaint and issued a final response letter. As 
Mr M has pointed out, that letter affected his right to refer the matter to this service  and so I think he 
should have been fully informed. 
And, as Ive discussed  above, the matter wasnt properly sorted  out  the SIPP provider doesnt seem 
to have taken the necessary  steps to ensure the agreed discount continued to be applied.  Although 
that said, I dont think any failure to implement what had been agreed would be caught by the six 
month deadline. I think that would ground a new, follow on complaint,  on the basis that things hadnt 
been sorted out as agreed. But, if nothing  else,  if the final response letter had been shared with Mr M 
at the time he could have queried the SIPP  providers  reference to any payments to McCrea.   I think  
Mr M has suffered some  distress  and inconvenience  in finding out about this after the event. 
what constitutes advice
First, it isnt the case that advice will only be contradictory if it was given at the same time as other,  
different advice. Here  Mr M is saying that he was advised against an annuity in 2013 and to set up a 
SIPP instead.  Yet less than two years later he was advised an annuity might suit him better.  I agree 
that could be regarded as contradictory advice. 
That said, it wont necessarily be wrong to give different advice. Over a two year period much can 
change  personal circumstances and priorities, as well as economic  conditions. So later given advice  
that is different wont  necessarily be contradictory or an indication that the original advice must have 
been wrong. 
I can understand why the investigator  thought  what had been said/written  was simply a comment, 
which wasnt intended to be advice.  But regardless of the intention, if what was said or written  
amounted to advice then it will be advice. I dont think its possible to draw  a distinction  between 
formal and informal advice.  Factors such as the setting (and anyway  here, and as Mr Ms pointed out, 
the advice was given in an office environment) wont mean that what was said or written  wont amount 
to advice  if, on proper analysis, it was. 
Some guidance as to what might constitute advice is given in the regulators Perimeter Guidance  
Manual (PERG).   Ive looked at what PERG 8.28.1G said at the time about advice  or information  
Ref: DRN799358415that the regulators  view was that advice  requires  an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. In 
effect its a recommendation as to a course of action. And PERG 8.29.1G said, about  investments,  
that the advice must relate to the merits of buying or selling a particular  investment. 
Its impossible to know exactly what was said in discussions. But I dont think  theres  any suggestion  
that the adviser went as far as to say to Mr M that he should purchase an annuity and which would  
amount to a recommendation to do that. In saying  that, Ive assumed the March  2015 email reflected 
any discussions.  
Ive considered that email  carefully. The adviser  says it may be time to consider alternatives, such as 
annuity purchase. Thats  clearly a comment thats related to the merits  of buying  or selling  a particular 
investment  disinvesting the SIPP  and buying an annuity instead. And the adviser did say an annuity 
would provide  a guaranteed  level of income  and there was no investment element. But I think those  
were factual observations  rather  than an expression of opinion on the advisers part. And that was 
balanced by the comment that annuities had certain features that werent  attractive. Overall,  on 
balance and taken in context, I think what was written stops short of being  a recommendation  that Mr 
M should buy an annuity.  I think its more a suggestion that he might want to explore that possibility.  
Looking at the wider implications, I can understand why Mr M would be concerned about  any 
suggestion (whether  it amounted to advice or not) only two years after the SIPP  had been set up (at a 
substantial cost to Mr M) that a SIPP might not be the most  appropriate pension  arrangement for him. 
Ive thought about if the SIPP  was suitable for Mr M. 
McCrea has pointed to its customer satisfaction survey. But the fact that Mr M was then apparently 
happy with the service  provided leading  up to the setting  up of his SIPP doesnt mean  he might not 
later come to view things, and in particular  the advice hed been given, differently.  
As to whether the SIPP was suitable in 2013, annuities  (including a partially enhanced annuity)  were 
considered but the SIPP offered more income flexibility.  Mr Ms fund was large enough  to make a 
SIPP a viable  option  around £300,000 before taking tax free cash  which left well over £200,000 for 
investment.  Mr M was willing to take some investment risk. The balanced portfolio  recommended 
matched his attitude to risk and offered the chance for his fund to continue  to grow to offset 
withdrawals. And in the event of Mr Ms death his wife and son would  benefit  from the residual  fund. I 
dont think the recommendation  to consolidate Mr Ms three  existing pension arrangements which  
had all been  switched  to cash  earlier that year  into a SIPP  was unsuitable. I dont think  any later 
suggestion that Mr M might  want to consider annuity purchase instead indicates that the original 
advice wasnt suitable.  
I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. 
the forged signature
I can understand why Mr M regards  this is important and with serious implications even though, as he 
accepts, he hasnt  suffered  any financial loss if his signature was forged  theres no suggestion  that 
he didnt want to go ahead  with the investments.  I agree  it is very disturbing to think that an adviser  
might be prepared  to forge a clients signature. 
But that said,  Im not going to look into this aspect of the matter further. Despite what  Mr M says about 
there being obvious differences between the disputed signature and his known signature, Im not a 
handwriting expert.  So Id be reluctant  to express a view. I cant  see that the expense  of getting  a 
graphologists report is warranted. 
I realise Mr M is unlikely  to find my approach satisfactory.  But I dont think it would  be a reasonable 
use of our resources, notwithstanding  the very serious nature  of Mr Ms allegation,  to look into the 
authenticity of a single signature on a document dating back  some fifteen  years. And when  theres  no 
suggestion that the allegedly  forged signature  resulted in an outcome that Mr M didnt want  or hadnt 
agreed to. Thats my view even though Mr M has pointed  to the alleged forgery in support of some 
Ref: DRN799358416aspects of his current complaint. Ive borne what he said in mind. But Im not going to investigate 
further, or reach any findings, about this aspect of the matter. 
my provisional  decision
Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint in part. McCrea  should refund Mr M the excess  fee with interest as 
Ive set out above. And McCrea should pay Mr M £300 as compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered in consequence  of the failings on McCreas part Ive identified  above.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7993584