complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1995. Miss N says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ns case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ns credit card application  form. She applied to take out a Visa and 
Mastercard and ticked the box on the form to say she wanted PPI. If Miss N didnt want  to take 
out PPI, she neednt have  selected the box. Miss N has signed the application at the bottom  
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered  on to the form.
To be fair to Miss N, because Lloyds cant say how the PPI was sold to her, it has worked on the 
basis that it recommended the PPI to Miss N. That being  the case, it had the added responsibility  
of checking if  the PPI was right for her. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was suitable. I say this because:
Miss N was eligible  to take out the PPI;
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such  as 
having unusual  working arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which  
she was already aware;
Miss N said she would have got at least six months worth  of sick pay through  her 
employer. But this policy would have paid her if she was unable  to work through 
accident, sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months  per successful claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to her work benefits. As Miss N didnt have any other 
means with which to meet  her repayments if she wasnt  working, I think she could 
have found this cover useful.
Its possible  the information Lloyds  gave Miss N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think having  better information about  the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Miss N. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss N because:
 Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss N about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss N, 
that was unfair.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN7145022K820x#14To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss N any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7145022