K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has withdrawn his HSBC Premier  
account because  it says Mr F is no longer eligible for it.
background
HSBC Premier banking is a service  offered by HSBC to customers who meet  certain 
eligibility criteria, such as a certain level of income  or a minimum amount of savings.  The 
service gives HSBC  Premier customers a relationship management service and inclusive 
worldwide travel insurance, without the need  to pay a monthly  fee.
Mr F held an HSBC  Premier account  which was changed by HSBC in September  2018 to an 
HSBC Advance  account. The HSBC Advance account doesnt incur a monthly  fee and 
provides standard banking services, without  the relationship management  service  or the 
worldwide travel insurance.
Mr F complains that HSBC is using pressure  tactics to blackmail him into taking out more 
HSBC products, in order to remain eligible  for the HSBC  Premier account. He says hes 
unwilling to open  the additional products  that HSBC requires him to, in order to be eligible for 
the Premier account,  as hes previously had investment products mis-sold to him by HSBC.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that HSBC had acted unfairly by downgrading  Mr Fs 
account, so he didnt recommend that HSBC  should  put anything  right.  
Mr F didnt  agree so he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After having carefully  considered everything, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive firstly  considered the eligibility criteria  for the HSBC Premier account. The criteria are 
currently as follows:
1.savings or investments of at least £50,000  with HSBC in the UK; or
2.an individual  annual  income of at least £75,000  and one of the following 
products with HSBC  in the UK:  a mortgage, investment, life insurance or 
protection product.
3.youve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another  country.
Mr F says that he meets the income criteria (2) because  his annual income it as least  
£75,000 per year. I havent seen a full year of Mr Fs account transactions but from the few 
bank statements Ive seen, it does look as though he has a lot of credits to his account. So I 
agree its likely that Mr F meets the £75,000  income criteria.
Ref: DRN75320332But HSBCs income criteria isnt a standalone test. It also includes the need to have another  
HSBC product from the range of a mortgage, an investment, life insurance, or a protection  
product. And from what Ive seen, Mr F doesnt hold any of those products.
Ive checked HSBCs  Premier account eligibility criteria at several points over the years, 
back to 2009.  It doesnt  look as though the criteria  have changed  significantly  so I think Mr F 
wouldve been aware of them. I think whats happened here is that Mr F was likely  eligible to 
be an HSBC Premier customer at some point,  but as his portfolio of products with HSBC 
changed, so did his eligibility  to remain a Premier customer. And HSBC isnt wrong to review  
its customers eligibility for certain products on an ongoing basis, if it chooses  to.
Mr F says he previously  held an investment product with HSBC, which he complained  was 
mis-sold. He explained that in 2015  he received  compensation  for that mis-sale which 
happened in 2010. And with this in mind,  he says hes reluctant  to hold any other banking 
products with HSBC.
I can understand Mr Fs point and its entirely  up to him whether  he chooses to take any of 
HSBCs other products in order to meet criteria  (2) from above. But its not up to me to 
decide what HSBCs eligibility  criteria  are, or how it applies them. And HSBC  applying its 
eligibility criteria  is something its free to do. I know Mr F feels  that HSBC is blackmailing  him 
into taking other products,  but I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to conclude  that. 
Mr F still has the option to bank  with HSBC, albeit with an HSBC Advance account. HSBC 
also has other criteria that could allow Mr F to be a Premier customer, without  the need to 
take out the additional products that he says he doesnt want.
In this situation I dont  agree that HSBC changing its criteria is whats  caused Mr F to lose 
the Premier banking facility. It seems as though Mr Fs product holdings  changed and whilst 
he continued to hold a Premier account  for some time after that happened, HSBC withdrew 
Mr Fs Premier account access  once  it knew  he was no longer eligible for it.
I want to reassure Mr F that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think  HSBC has 
acted unfairly by withdrawing the Premier account  from Mr F, as he doesnt appear to be 
eligible for it any longer.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr F but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7532033