K822xComplaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund transactions  on her 
savings account  which she says she didnt make.
Background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 8 January 2020, 
a copy of which is attached.
I thought NatWest should refund the transactions which Miss C disputed.  I thought there had 
been an opportunity for a third party  to obtain  Miss Cs debit card and PIN and I explained 
why I thought it was unlikely  Miss C had carried out the transactions  or authorised  someone 
else to do so.
I also considered whether  Miss C had been grossly negligent. But, overall, I thought  that, 
whilst she should have  told NatWest  shed moved  house, she didnt deliberately not tell it. 
And so I didnt think her failure to do so was unreasonable.
NatWest agreed with my provisional decision and Miss C had nothing further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed with my provisional  decision, so I have nothing to add to my earlier  
conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  refund Miss C £430.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN76942932Copy of my provisional decision
Complaint
Miss C complains  that National Westminster  Bank Plc wont refund transactions on her savings 
account which  she says she didnt make.
Background
In September 2017, Miss C applied online for a (second) current account  with NatWest. She says she 
wanted to use the account for savings, so she didnt need a debit card. 
In early March 2018  she noticed theyd  been  two ATM withdrawals. She phoned  the bank to tell it she 
didnt authorise these  transactions and to ask the bank  to credit her account with the amount that had 
been withdrawn - £430.
NatWest said Miss C had applied using  her old address and that shed asked for a debit card.  It sent 
the debit card and PIN to that address. NatWest thought the transactions didnt match  a typical fraud 
pattern  they were  carried  out five months after the card and PIN were  sent, there were  no point of 
sale transactions and no attempts to exceed the card limit. Following her complaint, NatWest did pay 
Miss C £50 as it acknowledged it had taken a long time to tell her the outcome  of its investigation.
Our investigators conclusion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that:
 There  wasnt a point of compromise in which the card and PIN were obtained by a known or 
unknown third party,  so its likely Miss C received  the card and PIN.
 Miss C uses online banking  at least every  other  day, but didnt use online banking during the 
period that the withdrawals were made.
 No-one else knew about her account,  or that theyd been a £400 credit in January  2018.  So Miss 
C must have used her old address for the account application,  knowing that she could access the 
post there. 
Miss C didnt agree saying,  in summary, that:
 She thought shed used  her current address  when she applied for the account  and she thought 
shed opted  not to receive a debit  card.
 She disagrees  that there was no point  of compromise in which  the card and PIN were  obtained  
by a third party.  Whilst it may seem unlikely  that someone waited five months before trying to 
take money out of her account, that doesnt mean it wasnt possible.
 She accesses online  banking regularly, but randomly.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Were the disputed transactions authorised by Miss C?
Im satisfied from the evidence NatWest has provided  that whoever made  the transactions  had both 
Miss Cs genuine card and PIN.
Ref: DRN76942933So Ive gone on to consider the possible explanations  for how the disputed transactions  were made 
using the genuine  card and PIN. These  are that:
 Miss C used the card and PIN to make the transactions.
 A third party used Miss Cs card and PIN with her authority.
 A third party was able to obtain Miss Cs card and PIN and use them to make the transactions 
without her authority  or consent.
Ive considered which I think  is the most likely. I cant be sure exactly  what  happened; its a decision I 
make on the balance of probabilities. Having considered  this carefully, I think  its more  likely  than not 
that Miss C didnt make or authorise the transactions. Ill explain why.
Miss C didnt tell NatWest  that shed moved house  and I will comment  on this further later. This meant 
NatWest sent the debit  card and PIN for the account to the address it held in its records.  This was the 
address Miss C had moved out of in June 2016.
Miss C says she didnt want a debit card for the account because she wanted to use it for saving 
money, and she could  easily  transfer money to and from her existing, and main, current account.  And 
she says she feels sure she opted out of receiving a debit card. I think this is plausible. I can see she 
used the account as she intended, generally  crediting £10 a month except  in January 2018 when she 
credited the account with £400 that she wanted  to set aside for a holiday.
The summary of the application provided by NatWest shows that a debit card was included  in the 
application. Its not clear  whether this was automatically  included or whether there was an option to 
opt out. In either  case, I think  Miss C didnt  want a debit card, knew she wouldnt use it, and didnt 
realise she hadnt opted  out of having one.
NatWest sent the debit  card and PIN to Miss Cs old address. It says Miss C was signed up to receive 
text alerts and should have  received a message to say that a card and PIN had been sent. If this was 
the case, I would have expected  Miss C to query why shed been sent one and then to query when it 
wasnt received. Ive not seen evidence that a text alert was sent and I think its likely one wasnt sent,  
or if it was it wasnt  received  by Miss C  because she didnt contact the bank.
Miss C told us her old address was a rented flat. She says the post for each flat was kept in a locked 
post box. There are a number of people  who could have had access  to that locked box  Miss C, if 
shed kept the key; the landlord; any tenants occupying the flat since Miss C moved  out more than a 
year earlier; and possibly any individuals responsible for maintenance  at the property.
The card and PIN were  sent in September 2017; the card wasnt used  until the end of February 2018.  
I agree with NatWest  that this is unusual   it would be more likely  that a fraudster would try to use the 
card straight  away.  But in this case it appears an individual waited five months.  During most of that 
time, had the individual tried to use the card, the balance  would  not have been more than £30. But in 
January 2018 Miss C had credited the account with £400. So, unless  the transactions  were  carried 
out by Miss C, it seems very coincidental that there was no card use until after that large deposit.
But I have thought about what might have happened here, and what  is most likely  to have happened. 
As noted above, the debit card and PIN could have ended  up in the hands of a number of individuals.  
I think  its quite possible  that the envelopes went either unnoticed or unopened for a period of time.  
Miss C hadnt  left a forwarding  address;  perhaps the new occupier simply  left the envelopes in case 
Miss C came back for them.  Perhaps they were taken out of the box  as they werent addressed to 
the current  occupier   and left elsewhere. Or perhaps they were left in the box and a new tenant  
decided to open them. 
I cant  say exactly what happened. But I think its likely  that the card and PIN were received at the old 
address and were  left unopened for five months before an unknown  third party opened  them  and 
decided to use the card.
Ref: DRN76942934The card was used as follows:
Date Time Transaction Amount
27 February 02.22am Balance Enquiry -
27 February 02.23am Balance Enquiry -
27 February 02.23am ATM Withdrawal £300.00
28 February 03.29am Balance Enquiry -
28 February 03.47am Balance Enquiry -
28 February 03.47am ATM Withdrawal £130.00
There was one final attempted use of the card in an ATM on 3 March, but this was after 
Miss C had reported the transactions and the card had been cancelled.  So the machine  kept the card.
If these transactions  were  authorised by Miss C, there wouldnt have been any need for a balance  
enquiry. The person  who carried  out these transactions withdrew as much cash as they could on day 
one  up to the daily ATM limit. They then returned the following  day to withdraw the remaining 
money. There were no point  of sale transactions  which  typically a fraudster  would use to try to gain 
as much benefit in as short  a time as possible. But perhaps this individual felt theyd be less likely  to 
be caught using a cash machine. Bearing in mind the circumstances in which they would have come  
into possession of the card, I think  its likely that these transactions were  carried out by an opportunist 
who was looking to benefit from having obtained the card as quickly as possible.
If it had been Miss C using the card, I wouldnt have expected her to attempt to use it after she knew it 
had been cancelled.
Our investigator said Miss C didnt log on to online banking during the time of these disputed  
transactions and that this was out of character. Ive looked at Miss Cs online banking activity  and I 
can see that she was a frequent user. Most usually she would log on at least every other day. But she 
didnt log on on 3 February or 4 February. But this wasnt the only occasion when she didnt log on 
every day  there were three days towards the end of the previous month when she didnt log on, and 
three occasions in the two months before that when there were  two day gaps. So I dont find her 
failure to log on for two days was unusual or makes a difference to the overall outcome here.
So, overall  and on balance, I dont think its likely that Miss C carried  out the transactions, or that she 
consented to someone else doing so.
Did Miss C fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with the obligations set out in Regulation 57 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009?
Miss C failed to tell NatWest  that she moved house in June 2016.  She didnt give NatWest her new 
address until March 2018.  So I need to consider if she acted purposefully or with gross negligence 
here. Clearly her failure to tell NatWest she moved, led to her account being compromised. So she 
failed to prevent mis-use  of her account.  But I dont find that she acted intentionally. Miss C carried 
out all her banking online, so its not unreasonable that she forgot to tell the bank shed moved. 
When she opened her new current account,  I dont think she gave NatWest her old address. I think 
the existing information  the bank held in its records was automatically used to open the account. I 
cant say whether Miss C would  have  been  presented  with this information and should  have noticed. 
But, on balance,  I think she would have contacted the bank during or after she made  the application  if 
she had realised it was still using her old address.
So although Miss C should have told NatWest  shed  moved house, I dont think  she deliberately didnt 
tell it, and I dont think her failure  to do so was unreasonable 
In the circumstances,  I think NatWest should  refund the disputed transactions.
Ref: DRN76942935My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that National Westminster  Bank Plc should  refund £430 to Miss C.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7694293