K821x#15complaint
Mr A and Miss W complain that ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) declined their travel 
insurance claim and about  its poor service.
My references to ERV include its agents, which includes  the emergency  assistance service.
background
Mr A bought a bank  branded single  trip travel  insurance policy  with optional winter  sports  
cover for a family holiday. ERV was the relevant insurer.  The policy covered  Mr A, Miss W 
and Mr As two young sons.
Unfortunately, during  the holiday Miss W and Mr As son were injured in an accident 
involving a snowmobile  Miss W was driving. Mr As son had no injuries and was discharged 
after a hospital  check-up.  Miss W had broken bones near her ankle and broken vertebrae at 
the bottom  of her back.
Mr A contacted ERV immediately to tell it about  the accident. Miss W had surgery  on her leg 
abroad and surgery  on her back was planned.
Four days after the accident ERV told Mr A the claim wasnt covered as snowmobiling  wasnt 
an activity covered by the policy. It said it would pay the travel  costs for Mr As brother to 
accompany Mr As sons to the UK, as it had previously agreed.
Mr A and Miss W complained to us. They said:
the policy wasnt clear  snowmobiling wasnt covered
ERV took too long to tell them they werent  covered. If theyd  known sooner they 
would have looked at cheaper  options for Miss Ws treatment
ERV gave them no support or assistance.
Our investigator thought ERV had fairly declined the claim in a reasonable timescale and 
had reasonably given non-financial assistance.
Mr A and Miss W disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. They believe the policy 
wording is ambiguous and feel strongly  that ERV disadvantaged them by not telling them  
about the claim decline sooner.
Before I made my decision I asked both parties to provide further information about  the 
service issues  Mr A and Miss W raised,  which I described in a provisional decision I sent to 
the parties.
From the calls that ERV provided in response  to my request I noted that Mr A had told ERV 
that Miss W had incurred up to half a million in costs with the hospital, which is over the limit 
I can award. I asked our investigator  to ask Mr A what  costs he and Miss W had incurred. 
We told them that if I did tell ERV to do something to put things right, I couldnt require it to 
pay more than £150,000 in compensation (although it may do so voluntarily).
Mr A said he knew about costs of about  $20,000  plus £10,500 but the big bill from the 
hospital hadnt come through  yet and there  may be other bills. He didnt know what the final 
total costs would be. He thought the costs might  exceed £150,000.
Ref: DRN73315432I also asked our investigator to tell ERV that I was still considering the complaint  but if I did 
say ERV should pay the claim it might exceed our award limit for this complaint. We asked 
whether ERV would  respond positively to a recommendation to pay the balance of loss over 
our limit.
ERV didnt directly answer  the question but said the costs claimed werent  covered by the 
policy and it had only agreed to pay the flights for Mr As sons and escort  subject to 
documentary evidence.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to partly uphold  the claim. 
I said:
I have to decide whether ERV fairly declined the claim. If it did, then I need to decide  
whether ERV told Mr A and Miss W about  the decline in a reasonable timescale and if not 
whether the delay did disadvantage Mr A and Miss W.
the claim
The medical emergency and repatriation expenses section of the policy says theres no 
cover for:
The cost of any treatment or surgery (including  exploratory tests) which  is as a result 
of your participation  in a winter sports activity (unless you have  paid the additional 
Winter Sports premium  and this is shown on your travel insurance certificate and 
schedule).
Mr A did pay for winter  sports cover  which  is shown  on the policy  schedule.  But ERV has 
referred to the following  policy wording to say snowmobiling isnt covered as a winter sport:
Winter Sports
Winter Sports (other than curling or ice skating)  are excluded unless an additional 
premium has been  paid and accepted. Winter Sports cover  is only available  to 
persons aged  65 years  and under. Where Winter Sports cover  has been  purchased 
you are covered for up to 24 days in any one insurance period on an Annual Multi  
Trip policy or for the dates stated on your Single  Trip Winter Sports travel  insurance 
certificate and schedule. The following activities are covered:
On piste skiing or on piste snowboarding
Off-piste skiing or off piste snowboarding  where accompanied by a qualified 
guide or instructor
Cross country skiing on recognised routes and with a guide
Ski racing arranged  by ski schools for their pupils
Sledging
Examples of Winter Sports activities not covered are:
Bobsleighing
Heli skiing
Ice Hockey
Ref: DRN73315433Luging
Use of Skeletons
Ski Acrobatics
Ski Jumping
Please telephone the (named) Bank  Customer Helpline if you are unsure  as to 
whether your intended activity is covered by your policy.
Snowmobiling isnt listed as a covered  activity.  Its not in the list of activities  not covered. But 
ERV says the not covered  activities are examples only and ERV has shown  me that if Mr A 
had phoned to ask for snowmobiling to be covered the matter would have been referred to 
the underwriters who would have refused to cover  the activity.
Snowmobiling isnt covered under the policy. However, for ERVs  claim decline to be fair 
I have to be satisfied  that the policy is clear that snowmobiling isnt covered.
There are travel insurance policies, which arent specialist winter  sports  policies, which do 
cover snowmobiling. While the policies Ive seen dont cover personal accident  benefit or 
personal liability they do cover medical and repatriation expenses, which I understand  are 
the expenses  Mr A and Miss W are claiming.  So if I do think ERVs policy cover wasnt  clear 
Mr A and Miss W have been  disadvantaged because they could have bought a policy  that 
would have covered snowmobiling and their situation.
ERVs sent us the online process Mr A went through  in buying the policy.  When  the option is 
given to add winter sports cover theres a prompt telling the consumer  to read the policy to 
check theyve got the right level and type of cover.  It's not clear  from the process if the 
prompt is always visible or whether it's pop-up  information only visible if the icon is clicked.  
Even if its the former, the issue is whether the policy documents  as a whole are clear and 
unambiguous.
ERV has shown me it sent Mr A an Insurance Product Information Document which details 
the policy key facts. Under  whats not insured the documents says:
Certain hazardous  sports  and activities may not be covered under this policy  see 
policy wording for further details.
The hazardous sports and activities wording gives detailed lists of what sports  and activities  
ERV will cover, wont cover and will cover if professionally organised and supervised and 
safety equipment  and precautions are in place. None of the lists include winter  sports  
activities. The information given about  winter sport activities cover in the policy is very limited 
compared to the comparative information given about hazardous sports  and activities.
ERV thought it significant to highlight the details  about the hazardous  sport and activities  
cover in the policy key facts. So I think it would have been reasonable for ERV to do the 
same for winter  sports  and activities, particularly  as it's bought as optional  cover.  ERV didnt 
highlight the limitations for winter sport and activities cover.
The wording  about  winter sports that ERVs  relied  on, that Ive referred to above,  is on 
page 22 of a 112 page document, so not prominent  and, as Ive said,  not highlighted.
Also Im not persuaded  that the policy wording  ERV has relied  on is clear enough about 
there being no cover for snowmobiling.  In ERVs final response letter to Mr A explaining the 
Ref: DRN73315434decline ERV said Examples [My Emphasis] of Winter Sports  activities  not covered. I think 
the fact that ERV felt the need to emphasise the word 'examples'  illustrates  that the policy  
isnt clear enough that the activities are just examples.
Even if I thought it was clear that the list of not covered activities  were  just examples, all the 
activities listed are high risk, extreme activities. Mr A and Miss W and his sons went  on a 
family snowmobile tour with a professional  guide.  Mr A sent us a link to the tour which  is 
advertised as customized  for all abilities, and no experience is necessary. Looking at the 
not covered activities  list I dont  think a consumer would reasonably understand that ERV 
would put a guided family  friendly  snowmobile  tour in the same  category of those activities  
and not want to cover the risk.
I also note that under  the hazardous sport and activities list ERV does cover karting, go-
karting and jet ski-ing  so long as they are professionally  organised  and supervised with 
safety equipment  and precautions. I think those  activities are more akin to snowmobiling 
than the not covered winter sports and activities examples given. The tour website and 
Mr As photos show that safety equipment was given to Mr A, his sons  and Miss W. Mr A 
says the tour guide gave  a safety briefing, which Ive no reason to doubt.
Theres also a winter  sport cover  section in the policy, at page 90. I can see no mention 
about some  winter sports activities not being covered, which would have  been  reasonable to 
include.
Overall, I dont  think ERVs policy is clear enough  that it didnt cover  snowmobiling  as a 
winter sports  activity.  Where theres  ambiguity in the policy its fair to give an interpretation  in 
favour of the non-drafting party. Mr A and Miss W could have bought a policy that covered 
snowmobiling and I think they would  have done so if ERVs  policy  had been clearer.  I dont 
think ERV fairly declined the claim.
ERV must pay the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms, conditions  and limits  once it 
receives all the claim details. It has already agreed  to pay the travel costs  for Mr As brother  
to accompany the children to the UK, which was fair for it to do.
service
As I think  ERV unfairly declined the claim I dont need to decide  if ERVs delayed in 
informing Mr A about the decline (and whether he and Miss W were  disadvantaged  by any 
delay).
Mr A has raised other service issues around ERV giving him wrong contact numbers and not 
providing any support.
Its clear from the phone calls Mr A made at the time of the incident  that he was very 
frustrated at not being able to straightaway  talk to the customer  services team at the bank in 
the UK through which  he bought the policy. He says the phone numbers in the policy 
document didnt  work. Hes sent us a list of numbers he called, noting which business he 
thinks the number  related  to and whether he was able to speak to someone who could assist 
him when  he called about the claim.
ERV isnt responsible  for how the bank  arranged the insurance cover provided  by the policy, 
which is through several insurers for different types of cover under the policy. But I think  its 
Ref: DRN73315435reasonable for ERV to ensure that the policy provides clear information  about how a 
policyholder can contact it for the insurance cover its responsible for.
We sent the phone numbers  Mr A tried to call and his comments to ERV. Theyve given a 
detailed reply as to who the numbers relate  to which dont match up with Mr As 
understanding. Ive asked  our investigator  to send ERVs full response  to Mr A so he has the 
details.
Im satisfied that the phone number Mr A needed to call for a medical emergency was clear  
in the policy  document. On Page 2 of the policy under the heading Need medical help 
abroad? (in bold text) it says:
For emergencies if you are taken  by ambulance to hospital following an emergency  
call, you or a travelling  companion should call us as soon as possible once you have 
been admitted  to hospital
A phone number ending 0412 is given and its clear thats the number Mr A needed to call if 
hes in the country  he was in.
The same number is given for that country  in the list of important telephone numbers under 
the heading Medical Assistance Helpline. The phone number is for ERVs  medical 
assistance agent who Mr A spoke  to when first reporting the claim and several  times  after.
Mr A says when he tried to phone  the bank customer service number in the policy he 
couldnt get through. Thats a UK telephone number which may explain why it didnt work. 
But the policy is clear  that number is for the banks customer helpline for amendments or 
general information. Importantly, the policy is clear that wasnt  the number Mr A had to call 
in an urgent medical situation.
Generally from the evidence Ive seen I think ERV did give Mr A and Miss W reasonable 
non-financial assistance. For example,  it worked with Mr A to get his sons home (and agreed 
to cover the cost not under the policy).
compensation for any further injury
Mr A told ERV that he would consider ERV liable  for any further injury Miss W incurred as a 
result of it declining the claim as the decline meant she had to return  to the UK for back  
surgery rather than have  the surgery abroad.
However, Mr A told us the treating doctor  abroad issued a fit to fly certificate  for Miss W. Ive 
not seen the certificate. But as Mr A says one was issued and its more  likely than not that 
an airline would have insisted on a certificate  before allowing Miss W to fly Im satisfied she 
had a fit to fly certificate.
As Miss Ws treating doctor abroad  confirmed she was fit to fly ERV isnt responsible if 
Miss W did have  an injury  or complication of her existing injury that occurred during her 
return journey to the UK.
Mr A said he thought the costs may exceed £150,000 which is over the award  limit I can 
order ERV to pay in this case. So I explained  that I was intending  to say ERV must pay Mr A 
and Miss Ws claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits to £150,000  
plus interest. And I made  a provisional recommendation that as I currently  thought  the costs  
Ref: DRN73315436may be more than £150,000 I was intending  to recommend that ERV pays Mr A and Miss W 
the balance. I also told Mr A and Miss W that they may want to get independent  legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept the decision I was intending to make, and why.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr A and Miss W accepted  my provisional decision. ERV didnt agree it should  pay the 
claim, apart from the flight  costs it had already agreed. In summary, it said:
the policy wording  wasnt  ambiguous.  Snowmobiling isnt listed  as being covered in 
the policy. None  of the covered  activities involve motorised vehicles such  as a 
snowmobile. The policy  gives  examples of winter  sports not covered
ERVs underwriter detailed why it isnt feasible  for a policy to list every not covered 
activity in the policy exclusions.  It thought my provisional decision ignored the 
emphasis of the policy wording, which is designed to outline  whats  covered and then 
outline what isnt typically covered, rather than list everything that isnt covered
the policy document follows a specific order and theres more  vital information than 
winter sports cover that needs to be prominent  at the start of the policy. It queried 
where I thought  information on winter sports should be in the policy  document
winter sports activities covered and examples of activities not covered are 
immediately after hazardous activities. Policy information on winter sports activities  is 
limited compared to hazardous sports activities because winter sports are a small 
percentage of activities which customers usually chose to participate in
the examples  of winter sports activities not covered  arent noted as either  high risk 
or extreme activities
it didnt need  to emphasise the word examples  in its final response letter,  as the 
policy was clear. It did so because Mr A was overlooking the policy said they were 
examples
although the snowmobiling tour Mr A and Miss W went  on was advertised as family 
friendly and for all abilities/no experience necessary, the tour guide  required those on 
the tour to sign an agreement stating they wouldnt make a legal claim against  the 
tour business due to injury caused  by taking part in the activity. ERV thought there 
must have been considerable  risk of injury as the legal agreement needed to be 
signed before participating
the agreement  with the snowmobile  business Mr A and Miss W signed said 
snowmobiling was an inherently dangerous  activity but they didnt  check they were 
insured for the activity,  which  showed a disregard for their own safety
ERV thought the risk of injury for jet skiing and go-karting was far less then injuries 
that could occur  from snowmobiling  so wasnt an akin activity,  as Id suggested
an underwriter can choose which risks it wants to cover  which  is reflected in the cost 
of the policy. Some  other travel  policies covered snowmobiling within  winter  sports  
cover but this policy didnt. Consumers needed  to shop around to ensure they buy an 
appropriate policy for them and the onus is on the consumer to check the policy 
cover meets  their needs. Mr A should  have read the policy  and called the bank if he 
was unsure about cover
Mr A and Miss W werent disadvantaged.  ERV said its records  showed they bought 
the policy the day before they travelled and the booking receipts for the snowmobiling 
showed the snowmobile activity was bought by Mr As brother on the day of their 
arrival. That suggested the snowmobiling probably wasnt pre-planned so Mr A and 
Miss W couldnt  say that if they had been  aware  this activity wasnt  covered they 
would have bought an alternative policy. If Mr A had contacted  the bank on arrival 
Ref: DRN73315437abroad to say they intended to use a snowmobile the bank would  have told him 
winter sports  cover didnt cover snowmobiling
Mr A had mentioned  he knew someone  who had a previous similar incident to 
Miss W where  that person had a large amount of costs  but he hadnt ensured his 
policy covered him and his family  for the activities they wanted  to do.
ERV queried my provisional  decision award.  It was concerned  I was saying it should pay 
£150,000 when it hadnt seen any evidence that Mr A and Miss W had incurred costs to that 
amount or the £250,000  Mr A had previously  suggested. 
ERV said its medical assistance team had bills from the hospitals which totalled about  
$103,000 (about £80,000)  and there  were  the bills Mr A said hed paid but it didnt have 
evidence of those.  ERV asked us to send documentary evidence of the bills. It said it was 
concerned that Mr A may be attempting to play on the emotion of this service  by saying he 
is anticipating bills around £250,000.  ERV also wondered why Mr A hadnt claimed for the 
costs it had agreed to pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr A, Miss W or ERV objected to my provisional findings  about ERVs service  and 
compensation for any further injury to Miss W. So for the reasons in those findings  I think  
ERV did give Mr A and Miss W reasonable non-financial  assistance and ERV isnt 
responsible if Miss W did have an injury or complication of her existing injury  that occurred 
during her return journey to the UK.
As to the claim, Ive taken  into account  ERVs detailed response  although Ive just 
summarised its main points above. Its response  hasnt changed my mind. I still dont think 
ERVs policy  is clear  enough that it didnt cover snowmobiling as a winter  sports  activity.
An insurer  can choose what  it wants to cover and it doesnt have to list every activity  or 
eventuality that it doesnt want to cover. But an insurer  must  make the terms of cover clear  
and highlight  any unusual  and/or significant  exclusions/limitations for it to fairly rely on the 
policy terms to decline a claim. 
I can't advise  ERV where information about  winter sports  activities should be in the policy, 
but it needs to highlight  important exclusions/limitations.
Im not persuaded by ERVs point  as to why theres much less policy  information on winter 
sports activities compared to hazardous  sports activities.  The Financial Conduct Authoritys 
rules, Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS),  places certain duties and 
requirements on ERV when selling the policy to ensure customers are treated  fairly. So if 
ERV is offering an additional layer  of cover, which it does with winter sports cover,  then it 
should as a matter of good practice  and being ICOBs compliant make 
exclusions/limitations/restrictions clear and not misleading or ambiguous.
As Ive said,  ERV thought it significant  to highlight the details about the hazardous  sports 
and activities cover in the policy key facts but it didnt highlight the exclusions/limitations for 
winter sports  activities cover. I think highlighting exclusions/limitations for winter  sports  
Ref: DRN73315438activities would have  been fair and reasonable to a consumer, particularly as winter sports  
cover is bought as optional  cover.  
ERV giving a very limited  list of examples of activities not covered within a very long policy 
document isnt enough to highlight that there  are exclusions/limitations to winter  sports  
cover. 
I accept the examples of not covered activities in the policy arent labelled  as high  risk or 
extreme activities. But I think a consumer could  reasonably understand that those  activities 
are high risk or extreme.
Ive read the agreement  between the snowmobile  tour business and someone  taking  part in 
the tour. It says snowmobile riding  can be an inherently dangerous activity  with some known 
and some unanticipated risk. I think it's fair for me to say that litigation is very common  in the 
relevant country  and the agreement reflects that the snowmobile business wants  to try to 
minimise its exposure to litigation. ERV hasnt provided any evidence to show theres a 
considerable risk of injury in taking part in the professionally organised and guided activity 
that would  mean Mr A and Miss W unreasonably  took part.
I still think Mr A and Miss W could reasonably understand that a guided  family friendly 
snowmobile tour wasnt a high risk or extreme activity that ERV wouldnt cover.  I dont think 
them going  on the snowmobile  tour was having  disregard  for their,  or Mr As young  
children's, safety.
ERV hasnt provided any evidence about  the frequency of injuries for people  taking  part in jet 
skiing and go-karting  compared to snowmobiling. So I still think  those activities, which are 
covered with conditions which were  in place for the snowmobile tour, are more akin to 
snowmobiling than the not covered winter sports activities examples  given  in the policy.
The timing  of the booking of the snowmobile tour doesnt necessarily  mean the activity 
wasnt pre-planned by Mr A and Miss W. Even if it wasnt pre-planned, as the policy isnt 
sufficiently clear that snowmobiling  isnt covered they had no reason to think  they wouldnt 
be covered. Theyd  bought winter sports activity  cover.
ERV says consumers  need to shop  around  for the right policy  cover. But as Ive said,  
insurers need to be very clear about  whats covered and highlight unusual  and/or significant 
exclusions/limitations so that a consumer can make an informed choice. Even if Mr A knew  
someone who had a previous similar incident to Miss W that doesnt mean ERV can fairly 
decline the claim for all the reasons Ive given  above.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think its unusual for Mr A to not seek payment of the 
nominal already agreed costs while theres an ongoing dispute about  very considerable 
costs. Thats  not a reason for ERV to not to pay the claim.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional findings  and these findings I dont think ERVs policy 
is clear enough  that it didnt cover snowmobiling  as a winter  sports  activity.  I dont think  ERV 
fairly declined the claim.
ERV must pay Mr A and Miss Ws claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions 
and limits once it receives the claim details, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Ref: DRN73315439ERV has misunderstood  what Ive said about  costs.  It doesnt need to pay Mr A and Miss W 
£150,000 if they incurred  less than that amount. Mr A and Miss W need to send  the details of 
the costs theyve incurred to ERV with documentary evidence. ERV says it has details of at 
least some  of the hospital costs. ERV then needs to pay the claim for the costs incurred in 
line with the remaining policy  terms, conditions and limits. 
Mr A has been clear that he doesnt  know what the final costs total will be but he thinks its 
possible they may be more than £150,000.  If the costs are less than £150,000 ERV doesnt 
have to pay £150,000, it pays the costs incurred.
But as its possible the costs may be more  than £150,000, which is over the limit I can 
award, I need to make  the costs  award  with a recommendation that ERV pay the balance 
over £150,000 (if any), as I have below. 
ERV hasnt said it would pay any balance over the £150,000 so Mr A and Miss W may want 
to get independent  legal advice before deciding whether to accept  the decision as its 
unlikely they can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance (if any). 
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000 plus any interest  and/or costs/ interest on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation might be more than £150,000 I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
decision and award
I uphold the complaint about the claim.  I think that fair compensation is for 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG to pay Mr A and Miss Ws claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, conditions and limits.  My decision is that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG must 
pay Mr A and Miss Ws claim  in line with the remaining policy  terms, conditions  and limits to 
£150,000. On any payments already made  by Mr A and/or Miss W interest*  must  be added  
at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
recommendation
If the amount of the claim  is more  than £150,000,  I recommend that 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG pays Mr A and Miss W the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG doesnt  have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr A 
and Miss W can accept  my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A and Miss W 
may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mr A and Miss W how much its taken off. 
Ref: DRN733154310It should also give Mr A and Miss W a certificate  showing  this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7331543