K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Virgin Money plc increased  the interest rate on his credit  card account. He 
says he wasnt notified of the change. 
background
Mr S has a Virgin credit card. In June 2018,  he called Virgin because hed received notices 
in May and June  2018 to say hed received  a late payment charge.
Virgin told Mr S that itd taken the decision to increase the interest  rate on his account and 
that itd written to him in November  2017  to explain this change. It also told him that the late 
payment charges were because his previous months payments hadnt covered the minimum 
required. 
Mr S says he cant access his account  online and that he doesnt receive  paper  statements 
from Virgin. He says he relies on text messages from Virgin to manage his account. And 
says he didnt get the letter explaining  the change to his interest rate. So he didnt know  this 
change had taken  place and if he had known,  he wouldve stopped  using the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr S complaint should  be upheld. He said, in summary, that the 
terms and conditions allow changes  to the interest rate, that Virgin had shown that itd sent 
the letter to Mr S to notify him and that hed also been informed on his January statement 
online. 
Mr S didnt agree. His representative made  a number  of points on his behalf about why he 
couldnt have  known about  the interest rate change. And therefore Virgin  shouldnt  have 
applied it. Because  Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I accept that Mr S may 
not have been aware  that the interest rate had changed. But I dont  think  that means  Virgin 
shouldnt apply it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr S account  say that Virgin can change  the interest  rate in 
certain circumstances.  These  terms also say that if the change isnt to the customers 
advantage, as in Mr S case, it will give customers  30 days notice of the change. And itll 
give customers another 30 days to decide whether they want  to continue using the card at 
the new rate. So Im satisfied Virgin was allowed to change the interest  rate on Mr S credit 
card account, as long as it gave appropriate notice. 
Virgin has provided a template  copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr S in November 2017.  In 
this letter  the change to the interest rate is set out along with the customers options.  Virgin  
has also provided its contact notes for Mr S account. These show that a letter  of this type 
was issued to Mr S address in November 2017. So I think Virgin sent it and to the correct  
place. Because  of this, I cant fairly  say Virgin is responsible for Mr S not receiving it. Any 
problems with the post, due to the time of year or otherwise, would be outside  of Virgins 
control. 
Ref: DRN74088502Mr S says he didnt receive  this letter and that we shouldnt  rely on a template as evidence.  
But Virgin doesnt  have  a copy of the actual letter it sent  and it doesnt have to keep one  
so Ive had to base my decision  on the evidence I do have. And based  on the content of the 
template and the notes that show it was sent, Im satisfied  that Virgin did what  it shouldve 
done to let Mr S know his interest rate was changing. 
Virgin also says that information about  the interest rate change was in Mr S January 2018 
statement. I have seen  a copy  of that statement, and Im satisfied  the information is there. 
However, Mr S says he hasnt received paper statements for a number of years, didnt have 
access to online banking  and so was relying  on text messages from Virgin  to keep  up with 
payments on his account. 
Virgin has provided a recording  of a telephone conversation that took place on 14 November  
2017, which Ive listened to. Mr S called to ask for a copy of his most recent statement to be 
emailed to him. Hes told this isnt possible and the advisor suggests he resets his online 
access details to view the statement  there.  Mr S didnt ask about  paper statements or why 
hes not been receiving them.  And Ive not seen any other evidence that Mr S requested  
paper statements prior to his complaint in June 2018. So I dont think  Virgin  could 
reasonably have known that Mr S didnt have  access to his statements. 
Virgin has provided a copy of Mr S online banking history.  I can see that he did reset his 
security details the same day as the call; logged  in and looked at his October statement. So I 
think he could have  accessed his statements online in January 2018. Mr S representative 
has explained why Mr S doesnt like to access his account online.  And its up to him to 
choose whether  he wants  to or not, but I dont think  Virgin  is responsible for Mr S not having 
viewed his statements  online. 
Mr S was unhappy that, because of the increased  interest, his monthly payment didnt cover 
the minimum required in May and June 2018   so he received late payment notices. I can 
see from the statements  that its true that Mr S payments didnt cover the minimum required. 
So I think Virgin was right to write  to him and let him know, and I dont think  the resulting 
charges have been applied incorrectly. 
As Ive said,  I accept Mr S might not have  known the interest rate had changed and if he 
had, he wouldve done something differently. But based on everything  Ive seen, I think  
Virgin did everything Id expect to notify  Mr S about  the change   so I dont  agree  its treated 
him unfairly  by applying  the increased  rate to his account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7408850