K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that London General Insurance Company Limited  (London  General)  failed 
to carry out adequate repair work on his laptop computer. 
background
Mr O held an Added Care  policy with London  General, which  covered his laptop against 
breakdown and accidental damage. Mr O made a claim on the policy in December 2016 
after his laptop  sustained liquid damage, so London General arranged  for it to be repaired. 
The repair agent  replaced the battery,  hard drive and motherboard and the device was 
returned to Mr O on 24 January 2017.
Mr O says he continued to experience problems with his laptop after the repair, as it would 
often overheat.  And over time, he became unable to run any basic  functions  without 
experiencing a significant  lag. He eventually took the computer to the manufacturer  for an 
inspection on 28 August 2018, where  they reported:
Internal inspection shows that the liquid  damage  repair was not extensive enough and that 
multiple parts show signs of liquid contact
The manufacturer listed a number of additional parts that they wouldve looked to replace if 
theyd carried out the repairs. But given the potential costs involved,  they recommended  that 
it would  be more economical to purchase  of a new machine rather than carrying out any 
further repair work. 
Mr O contacted London General on 28 August 2018  in light of the manufacturers  report  and 
complained that the repairs were inadequate, so he requested that they either replace the 
laptop or provide a cash settlement. But London General refused to replace the machine due 
to the length of time that had elapsed since the initial repair  was carried  out. Mr Os cover 
had also since expired, and they told him that even if his policy was still in force,  they 
wouldve only arranged a further repair rather than looking to replace  the laptop.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. Having considered the manufacturers report, she 
didnt think Mr O had been provided  with an effective and lasting repair,  so she 
recommended that London General either  replace or repair the laptop  in line with the policy  
terms. London General  disagreed, as they argued that there  is no evidence to support  the 
manufacturers claims that the damage was from the initial liquid  damage  that occurred in 
December 2016.  So the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Mr Os policy  entitled him to a repair in the event of accidental  damage or breakdown. And 
where an insurer chooses to settle a claim by opting to repair, they need to indemnify the 
policyholder by carrying out an effective  and lasting repair. This means that any damage 
must be fully put right, and the repair should last for a reasonable amount of time. 
Having considered the manufacturers report, I dont think it can be said that the repairs 
carried out on Mr Os laptop  were ever effective,  as it was reported that multiple parts  were  
still showing  signs of liquid contact.  London  General argue that theres no evidence to 
Ref: DRN78445952suggest that the damage observed by the manufacturer was as a result of the initial liquid 
damage in December 2016. But the manufacturer  who for obvious reasons can be 
regarded as a specialist on the matter   expressly refers to the inadequate  repairs that had 
been carried out following the initial damage. Theyve clearly stated that they do not believe 
the work  to have  been extensive  enough  to rectify the damage caused. So in the 
circumstances, I consider there is more evidence to suggest that the current issues with the 
laptop are more likely a result of the initial damage  rather than any recent  liquid damage, 
and the manufacturer also hasnt made any comments along these lines that would allude to 
any fresh  damage. 
London General  further submit that if the repair had not been completed fully, then faults 
with the laptop wouldve come to light a lot sooner than they did. But again, there is no 
evidence on which the insurer  appears to have  based this assumption,  as the matter  of 
when any faults  may become apparent can be dependent  on numerous factors.  And in 
circumstances where  there  has been an attempt at a repair, its reasonable to assume that 
any remaining damage (that had also been missed by the repair agent) could take time to 
manifest. 
So based  on the evidence submitted, I do not consider the repair  to have been  effective or 
sufficient enough  to rectify the initial liquid damage, and I think London General ought to 
remedy this. I appreciate that the insurer says they would not look to replace Mr Os laptop 
under the policy,  and this will ultimately be a matter for the insurer  to decide in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. But as a minimum, I think they ought  to at least rectify the faults  
remaining from the liquid damage by carrying out further repairs in line with the 
manufacturers report. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold this complaint and direct  London  General 
Insurance Company Limited  to either  replace Mr Os laptop or repair it in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7844595