K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave her the wrong 
information about her loan accounts which led to a third party debt collection company T, 
registering two County  Court Judgments (CCJs) against her.
background
Mrs C took out three loans with Lending Stream between August and September 2012.     
Mrs C wasnt able to keep  up with her loan repayments so the accounts fell into arrears.
Mrs C offered to make  small repayments  and in 2014, she entered in to a debt management 
plan (DMP).
Mrs C understood that she owed  money  on two loans when in fact she owed money on three 
and that these two loans  had been passed to a third party M for collection. The total amount 
transferred to M was £898.92.  Mrs C started  making  payments against  this debt in 2014.
However it turned out that Mrs C had only been  making payments to M against  one loan 
account (loan two) and two other loans remained unpaid. This has resulted in M holding  a 
payment surplus  from Mrs C. The other two loan accounts (loans one and three)  had been 
sold to T which has since entered  CCJs against Mrs C.
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. He thought  it was 
reasonable of Mrs C to believe  she owed money  on two loans and that she was repaying 
both loans to M. 
The adjudicator asked Lending Stream to pay Mrs C £200 to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience she had encountered trying to resolve  the problem. The adjudicator  also 
recommended that Lending Stream refund  any amount  over and above what was due to be 
repaid on the loan that was actually  being  repaid under the DMP.
The adjudicator also said that Lending  Stream  should work with T to remove  the CCJs.
Lending Stream agreed to pay Mrs C £200.  It also agreed to refund any payment made 
above the amount due to in respect  of loan two. Lending Stream  said that it would refund  
this amount with interest to T.
Lending Stream said that it wasnt able to remove the CCJs from Mrs Cs credit  file and said 
that it was outside  the jurisdiction of this service. 
Mrs C was unhappy that she would still have two CCJs recorded against  her so the 
complaint came to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to require Lending  Stream  
to do more than the adjudicator recommended.
Ref: DRN71924852I agreed with the adjudicator that something went wrong which led to the CCJs being  
entered against Mrs C. And that if Mrs C had been  aware of the situation  concerning  all 
three loans,  she would have done something  about  them sooner.
Lending Stream had already agreed  to pay Mrs C £200 - I considered this was fair. Lending  
Stream had also agreed to refund the additional payments that Mrs C has made as part of 
her DMP.  Again  this was fair.
The aspect of Mrs Cs complaint that was left unresolved concerned  the CCJs. Although I 
appreciated that Lending Stream didnt apply for the CCJs itself  I didnt see why it couldnt  
try and work  with T to have them set aside.
If the third party refused  to co-operate with Lending  Stream then I required Lending Stream 
to let Mrs C know so that she could  if she chose  try and set the CCJs aside herself. If     
Mrs C then incurred a court fee for setting aside the CCJs, I said that Lending Stream should  
refund this to her together  with a further award of £150 to reflect  the inconvenience of having 
to set aside the CCJs.
The important thing  was to make sure that Mrs C had paid or would pay no more than the 
amount she owed to Lending Stream when the debts were transferred to M and T.
further submissions
Lending Stream said that Mrs C hasnt made  any repayments to T against loans one and 
three. As the loans are still open, Lending Stream said that it can to buy them back and 
remove the CCJs.
Lending Stream will apply the refund of the overpayments that Mrs C had made  against  loan 
two to reduce  the outstanding principal balances on loans one and three - £215 and £405. 
Lending Stream has then offered to agree a repayment plan with Mrs C.
Mrs C corrected a factual  inaccuracy in my provisional decision.  I had said that Mrs C 
stopped making  payments against  loan two in 2018  when in fact, through  her DMP, Mrs C 
has been making regular payments to this day.
Mrs C also said again that she thinks Lending  Stream passed two loans rather than just one 
loan to M. 
Mrs C didnt consider that £200 was a fair reflection of the trouble and upset that shes 
suffered. 
Mrs C was concerned that she might  end up having to deal with the CCJs herself. Mrs C 
said that she would struggle to find the Court  fees necessary to make the applications.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  about the inaccuracy in my provisional  decision  concerning the time period in which 
Mrs C has been making  repayments  to M. Ive gone back  to Lending Stream  to clarify this 
point.
Ref: DRN71924853I can fully understand  Mrs Cs frustration with the time that it has taken to resolve her 
complaint. Mrs C is very unhappy  with the way that Lending Stream has dealt with her. And 
Mrs C wants to make sure that Lending  Stream does everything Ive required it to before she 
settles the outstanding  balance on loans one and three. I want to reassure Mrs C that this is 
what I intend should happen.
Lending Stream should take whatever steps are necessary to remove the CCJs from         
Mrs Cs credit file including the removal of the entries from the relevant register  of 
judgments. 
Lending Stream says that when it transferred loan two to M, the amount due was £585.92. 
Lending Stream says that Mrs C has so far paid a total of £852.67 to M, leaving an 
overpayment of £266.75 (plus interest).  However,  I havent specifically  referred to these  
figures in my directions below as Lending Stream will need  to check  whether any further 
payments have since been received  by M.
In my provisional decision I said that Lending  Stream should refund the overpayment  to T. 
But as Lending  Stream is going to buy the debts back, I will leave  it up to Lending Stream  to 
decide what to do with the overpayment.  The main thing is that it should be used to reduce 
the outstanding principal  balances on loans one and three.
Finally, although  Mrs C has indicated  that she will settle any remaining balance in full once 
Lending Stream has put everything else right, I cant require her to do so. So Ive still 
included a direction that Lending  Stream should agree a reasonable repayment schedule 
with Mrs C just in case.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
pay Mrs C £200 directly;
make  sure that M is aware that Mrs C no longer owes it any money; 
arrange to buy back loans one and three from T making sure that it removes  any 
additional interest or charges that T might  have added to this debt;
apply any payment made to M above  the amount  due to be repaid on loan two to 
reduce the outstanding principal balance on loans  one and three; 
pay 8% simple interest on the above  refund from the date that the payment was 
made to M to the date on which  Lending  Stream applies the refund against the 
outstanding principal balance on loans one and three*;
remove the CCJs that have been entered against Mrs C in respect of loans one and 
three from her credit file;
once all of the above steps have been  taken , agree a reasonable repayment 
schedule with Mrs C to repay the remaining  principal balance  on loans one and three
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN71924854If Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Gain  Credit 
LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to take the steps  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192485