K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mr C says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to protect  a store  card by phone in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his card. Mr C says the policy was added without his knowledge  or consent. I wasnt  
present when Mr C applied for the PPI so I dont know for certain what  was said.  But from 
what I know about how FICL sold this type of policy at the time I think  its more  likely FICL 
made it clear  that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. The PPI 
was also taken out several years after Mr C applied for the card itself so I think  this also 
shows he would have  known that he didnt have to have to policy.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  the other means he had of making  his 
repayments which included up to three  months  sick pay, and up to three months  of his salary 
in savings and insurance. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay, and 
for longer. The PPI would  also have protected Mr Cs savings  to be used towards other 
expenses, and paid in addition to his other benefits. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
my final decision
Ref: DRN71005002I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7100500