K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited continued  to chase him for debt that 
didnt belong  to him, even  after he made them aware.
background
Mr C started receiving  letters  from Capquest in May 2017. Capquest explained they were 
chasing an outstanding debt taken  out in 2016 with a bank I will refer to as Bank  A. Mr C 
didnt recognise  this debt and in December 2017 he wrote to Capquest to explain that it 
wasnt his. Despite Mr C writing to them in December 2017 and again in July 2018, 
Capquest continued  to write  to him to request payment for the debt. 
In December 2018 Mr C wrote to Capquest again  to complain and explain the letters were 
causing him stress.  Capquest responded to confirm they would stop contacting him. They 
said his details had been obtained  from credit reference agencies  as a result  of a mis-trace. 
They also directed Mr C to contact the agencies to ensure any links to this debt were 
removed. Mr C was unhappy  with the response as it had taken Capquest  over a year to 
resolve the issue. He also said receiving  the letters chasing payment had caused him stress 
and he had seen  a doctor about it. He therefore raised a complaint with this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and thought Capquest should  have acted when 
Mr C pointed out they had the wrong person. She thought Capquest  should pay Mr C £300 
compensation to make  up for the stress  they had caused him.
Capquest didnt agree  with our investigator  as they said they had followed the correct  
procedure. They asked  for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C first wrote to Capquest in December 2017 to let them  know he wasnt the person who 
had taken out the debt. At this point Capquest should have acted to stop contacting Mr C, 
at least while  they looked into his claim. Mr C correctly  points out that the FCA Consumer  
Credit Source Book says A firm must suspend any steps it takes  or its agent takes in the 
recovery of a debt from a customer where  the customer disputes the debt on valid grounds 
or what may be valid grounds. It goes on to say that valid grounds include the individual  
being pursued for the debt is not the true borrower or hirer under the agreement  in 
question. From looking at the letters sent to and from Mr C I can see that Capquest didnt 
suspend recovery activity  when Mr C first contacted them. I therefore agree that Capquest 
didnt act correctly.
If Capquest had stopped recovery activity after his first letter,  Mr C wouldnt have had to 
spend time writing  further letters. He also wouldnt have experienced the stress caused by 
being repeatedly chased  for debt that wasnt his. Capquest say when  they received the first 
letter they requested the credit agreement from Bank A and didnt contact Mr C during  this 
time. However I can see that Mr C contacted Capquest again  in July 2018  to ask them to 
stop contacting him. Further, they didnt  provide  the credit agreement from Bank A until 
November 2018,  nearly a year after when they say they requested  it. And at the top of the 
letter, it still says how much is outstanding on the debt.
Ref: DRN73369682Finally Mr C had to go to some lengths  to prove  that the debt didnt belong to him. In his final 
letter he identified payments he made  from his own bank  to prove where  he had been on 
certain days. This would have taken some  time and caused Mr C significant stress, on top of 
that already experienced  from being chased  for the debt for over a year. Mr C has explained  
he is a pensioner who lives on a modest  pension, so the letters asking for payment of a large  
debt would have  caused particular stress. He also said he has had to see a doctor  due to the 
impact of the stress  caused. If Capquest  had acted after Mr Cs initial letter  he would not 
have had to go to this trouble. He also wouldnt have received as many letters so the stress 
would have been significantly reduced. I therefore think  that Capquests lack of action did 
cause Mr C undue stress  and they should pay compensation. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think the distress has been  quite significant for Mr C. 
Capquest had the opportunity to correct the mis-trace when Mr C first raised  the issue  with 
them but they failed to do so. They then continued  to contact him for another  year causing 
further distress. I therefore agree with out investigator that £300 compensation is appropriate 
to address the trouble  and upset caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I therefore 
require Capquest Debt Recovery Limited  to pay £300 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336968