K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009. 
Mr and Mrs C say Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they werent told the cover was optional. I dont know  exactly  what 
was discussed.  But Northern Banks summary of the discussions, signed  by Mr and Mrs C, 
refers to the PPI as optional insurance. Mr and Mrs C also signed  the summary  separately to 
say they required  the cover. Bearing  this in mind, on balance  I think  its likely Northern Bank 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs C didnt have  to take the PPI and they chose to take it. But I 
can understand why they might not remember this now.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  the PPI was right 
for them - and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example Mr C, who the cover was on, wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. From  what Mr and Mrs C have told us, Mr C was entitled to less than 
twelve months redundancy or sick pay. And Mr and Mrs C didnt have any savings to help 
make the loan repayments if Mr C suffered a loss of or drop in income due to disability or 
redundancy. So Mr and Mrs C seem to have  had a need for the cover.  The benefit would 
cover up to the whole  of the remaining loan payments for a successful  disability claim.  And 
cover payments for up to twelve months  for a successful unemployment claim.
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But from what Ive seen I think they chose  to take it - so it looks  to me 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems  like the 
cover wouldve been useful for them  if something  went wrong. The PPI cost was set out in 
the papers Mr and Mrs C signed to say they required the cover. So I think Northern Bank 
likely made Mr and Mrs C aware  of what the policy cost. And it looks like it was affordable. 
With all this in mind, and taking into account what Ive already said above,  on balance I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs C off taking the cover. 
What Ive said above means Northern Bank  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:  
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Northern Bank 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN70232052To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said but, for the reasons Ive already given 
above, these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Northern Bank should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs C any extra interest they paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Northern Bank  
should also pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023205