K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained Tesco Personal  Finance PLC, trading as Tesco  Bank, is holding him 
liable for credit card transactions when he never  applied for the credit card.
background
In November 2018 Mr H got a letter from Tesco Bank saying theyd not been able to contact 
him about his credit  card. By the time they sent this letter, theyd already sent at least five 
letters in August, September and October 2018  about payments not being  received to his 
credit card and transactions going  over the credit  limit.
Mr H contacted them and complained hed never  taken out this card.  He was being held 
liable for nearly  £7,000 worth of transactions. These  had taken place between 30 June and 
7 September 2018.  
Tesco Bank believed  Mr H had applied for the card. They were aware of a personal  loan 
during the same period  taken out by Mr H (which  is the subject of another complaint with this 
service). Thered also been a replacement card sent to Mr Hs home address as well. They 
believed the card usage  including attempted credits to the account   followed a fraudulent 
pattern. They thought  Mr H knew what had been going on. Thered been a call in October 
2018 with someone  saying  they were Mr H who denied attempting transfers and balance  
transfers using  the credit  card to a bank  account (with a bank Ill call H).
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He told us hed responded to an 
email earlier  in the year and provided  bank and personal details in response to what he now 
thought was a scam,
After detailed review of what had gone on, two investigators told Mr H they felt hed either  
applied for the card or knew  who had done so and therefore authorised  the use.
Mr H said hes never applied  for this card. Around the same time there were other attempts 
to take out fraudulent loans in his name.  Mr H has asked an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered Mr Hs detailed  letters  to Tesco  Bank from 
November 2018  and his credit report.  Ive also reviewed evidence  from Tesco  Bank 
including transactions made on the credit  card, along with details of phone conversations.  
Weve also got evidence from Mr Hs main bank (who Ill call S) showing his online and 
mobile banking  usage.
Ive considered the following issues:
When the Tesco Bank credit card was opened,  someone made  sure that details of 
Mr Hs Tesco club card were added to the account so points could accrue. This isnt 
generally what youd  see if an unknown fraudster was making this application.
Ref: DRN79253622The application was made online.   
Use was made of the card straightaway. The first transactions  were made on 
30 June.
On 3 July someone calls Tesco Bank and changes the email address linked to the 
account. On 31 August the mobile  phone details are changed using the mobile  app. 
None of the new (or former) details are the ones we hold for Mr H.
In the first month  there  are a number of high-value transactions  on the card.  These 
are to food wholesalers and jewellers.  There are also withdrawals of cash  at cash 
machines. There are also lower-value transactions to fast-food outlets.
Then as there is no remaining credit  limit, there are attempted credits of nearly  
£2,000 to the card. This temporarily allows further transactions  to be made.
The following month follows the same pattern as the first month of usage.
Throughout August  and September there  are a number of attempted  balance  and 
money transfers to other accounts. These  are rejected. The two credits are reversed 
as these are shown to be fraudulent.
A replacement card is sent to Mr Hs home  address  in September  2018.
There are a number of calls made  to Tesco Bank during the life of the credit  card.  
These do seem to suggest they may not have  been all done by Mr H. So, for 
example, one person gets Mr Hs age wrong when asked.
One call is somebody  saying they dont have a bank account with H but in fact Mr H 
 according to his credit  record   does hold an account with H.
Mr H has said there  were other  loans opened in his name fraudulently.  I cant see 
this to be the case. According to Mr Hs credit record there were definitely a number 
of searches against his name  in July 2018 with a variety  of different companies.  I 
cant see this resulted in any other loans being successful however.
Ive considered Mr Hs point that he was the victim  of a phishing  scam earlier in 2018. 
However what occurs  both the credit card and loan applications  dont follow what  Id 
expect to see if this was how Mr Hs detail were compromised. With those details its 
certainly true someone could open  accounts in Mr Hs name but the risk I see here is that 
lots of correspondence was sent to Mr Hs home  address.
A fraudster  whos harvested details online through a phishing scam wouldnt know  Mr Hs 
postal  or in fact personal  arrangements. They wouldnt have known that coincidentally 
Mr H had a post box which  could have been  compromised  or that he didnt check  his post 
that frequently.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr H in this case)  authorised  these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Hs 
details, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster  may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Hs card and PIN without his consent.  Ive thought  about  the different scenarios  that 
could have happened here.  I struggle in seeing  a scenario which  involves an unknown third 
party.
A possible scenario  is that Mr H was persuaded by friends or acquaintances  to allow  his 
details to be used.  He may not even have  known exactly what that use would entail. 
However the key aspect  to this is that would mean  that Mr H had allowed someone else to 
use a credit card in his name to make  transactions.
Ref: DRN79253623Overall I believe Mr H made or authorised the transactions  so Tesco Bank  dont need to do 
anything further.
Its quite clear, however,  that Mr H has been  left in a difficult financial position. Tesco Bank 
will need  to assess what repayments  Mr H can afford.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against Tesco  
Personal Finance  PLC,  trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7925362