K822xcomplaint
Mr O is unhappy with the way a change in home insurance policy details was handled by 
Qmetric Group Limited.
background 
Mr O phoned Qmetric on 19 March 2019 regarding a quotation for buildings  and contents 
insurance policy in the joint names of himself and his sister. He told Qmetric that he wasnt  
living at the property and had no financial interest  in the contents. His sister was living in the 
property. 
Qmetric told Mr O that as the contents belonged  to his sister, the policy should be a 
buildings and contents policy in her name only. It said alternatively it could set up a buildings  
only policy for him and his sister  and a separate contents policy  for his sister. 
Mr O went back  online and bought the buildings and contents  policy  hed been originally 
quoted with cover to start the same day. Qmetric says that later that day he contacted  it and 
asked it to change  the names of the policyholder.  Qmetric says its representative explained 
that in order to do this it would  need to cancel the existing policy  and replace it with a new 
one.
Mr O wasnt happy with that. He says he asked his sister to meet  him after work so that they 
could speak to Qmetric together.  
In a later call Mr O asked  for the policy to be cancelled with effect from 2 April 2019. He 
asked for an immediate refund so that he could pay for new insurance. Qmetric said the 
refund would take three to five working days.
Mr O complained to Qmetric. He was unhappy that it had to cancel his existing policy and 
set up a new policy in order to change the policy details. He was also unhappy that his 
refund took three to five working days to reach him.
Qmetric said according to its terms and conditions if he needed to change his policy, that 
would mean  cancelling the existing  policy and taking out a new policy  with the premium  for 
the new policy payable  immediately. The policy terms also stated that credit  or debit card 
refunds would take three to five working days.  It said it was unable  to put the balance of the 
premium for the old policy towards the new premium.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Qmetric should have 
made it clearer to Mr O that hed need to pay the premium for the new policy before 
receiving the refund  for the existing policy. She recommended that Qmetric should pay 
compensation of £75 for the trouble and upset it had caused him.
Qmetric accepted  that recommendation  and paid Mr O £75. Mr O thought his sister was also 
entitled to compensation of £75. As the parties  didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN76170552Its not in dispute  that Qmetric was entitled  to deal with changes  in the policy  by cancelling 
an existing policy and setting up a new one. Or also that debit or credit cards  refunds might 
take three to five days. Its terms and conditions  make  these matters  clear and a copy  of 
these was provided to Mr O before he took the policy out. 
But even so, I think Qmetric  should  have appreciated  from its initial conversation with Mr O 
that he was anxious to set up the policy quickly and hadnt answered the question correctly  
about whether  he lived in the property because its clear from listening to the call he just 
wanted to get cover  in place. And also because there were  inconsistencies  in the information 
he gave Qmetric.
So it should  have anticipated that a future  change  to the policy  might  be needed. It did tell 
Mr O that if he didnt  answer questions correctly,  any claim might not be paid. But it didnt tell 
him that if he wanted to change the policy later,  hed have to take out a new policy  and 
cancel the existing one. If it had done  that, Mr O might have taken the trouble to provide the 
correct information  at the outset and have saved himself the trouble of having to cancel the 
policy in order to get the correct cover in place  later.  I think  compensation of £75 is 
appropriate to compensate Mr O for the trouble and upset caused by this.
I can understand that Mr O not wanting to wait a few days  for a refund of the premium for the 
original policy. But a time frame of three  to five days for refunds is neither unreasonable  nor 
unusual in my view. Payment could have  been made faster  than this but I dont think  Qmetric 
acted unreasonably in not setting up a special process  especially  for this one payment.
When it comes  to Mr Os sister, I think it was reasonable for Qmetric to want  to speak to her 
rather than Mr O on her behalf  it needed  to ensure that she was happy  with the cover she 
was taking out and that she agreed  to its terms and conditions. I appreciate that shes  a busy 
person and it wasnt easy or convenient for her to find the time to call Qmetric with Mr O. But 
Im not persuaded Qmetric caused her unnecessary trouble and upset, so I wont  require 
Qmetric to pay any further  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. But since Qmetric Group Limited  has already paid 
compensation of £75 to Mr O for the trouble and upset it caused him, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7617055