K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has provided diabolical  customer  
service over a 10-month period that has caused her significant stress  and anxiety.  The level 
of compensation  it has offered does not reflect the pain she has suffered, or the time she 
has spent trying to resolve the issues.
 
background
Mrs H says Halifax reduced her credit limit and then closed her credit  card account after a 
late payment. The payment  was late as the bank had mistakenly cancelled her direct  debit 
after she changed the amount online. It told her to reapply for a new card, but she was 
declined. She had to spend months  trying  to resolve  the issue,  making frequent calls to the 
bank with no satisfactory resolution.  
In its final response letter  the bank agreed  there was an error in its process  to change the 
direct debit, and that it closed Mrs Hs credit  card account in error. It said it couldnt  re-open 
her account,  but it had removed the late payment marker from her credit record,  refunded  
the related fees and charges and it would remove the credit search after shed made a new 
application. It acknowledged its failure to respond  fully and promptly  to the many  calls Mrs H 
had to make. So it upheld  her complaint and paid £300 compensation for the poor service, 
plus £50 to cover Mrs Hs expenses in pursuing the complaint.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us, saying the compensation offered wasnt  enough given 
the level of distress and inconvenience shes experienced. This has affected  her health and 
led to her resignation  from her job in order to focus  on her recovery.  She also wants  an 
apology from the bank and a credit  card account on the same  terms.  
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had fairly  resolved Mrs Hs complaint. He said, in 
summary, whilst the bank acknowledged  some  of the errors it had made,  it had also 
miscommunicated about re-opening  the account  and delayed  issuing the final response 
which meant Mrs H had increased her borrowings elsewhere by the time she came  to 
reapply for an account. 
He said the compensation should be increased  by a further £150 to recognise the impact 
this all had on Mrs H. He also said Mrs H should be allowed  to repay  her outstanding 
balance on a monthly basis, benefiting  from the promotional interest rate. He explained to 
Mrs H that we couldnt however tell the bank it had to offer her credit  on the same terms. 
And whilst he could  see all the calls she had to make would have been stressful, he couldnt 
know that this issue,  as she stated, was the sole reason her health deteriorated so he 
couldnt comment further on this. He also provided  details of organisations that could support 
her, given she highlighted that the bank had offered this but failed to provide any contacts. 
And finally, he confirmed  that she needs to follow the banks change of name process as her 
previous request was withdrawn.
The bank disagreed with this assessment, saying it had already offered a fair level of 
compensation. Mrs H also disagreed saying £500 wasnt  sufficient. Our investigator  relooked 
at his findings, but said there was no new evidence to change  his recommendation. He 
added that whilst he hadnt listened  to the calls (because he didnt disagree with what  Mrs H 
had told him), he had considered the level of Mrs Hs dissatisfaction with the banks 
customer service  when  reaching his conclusion and he still felt £500 to be fair overall.  
Ref: DRN79474542So the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
I do understand that this has been  a frustrating and distressing time for Mrs H. I 
acknowledge she has had to spend  an unacceptable amount of time chasing the bank for a 
resolution. She has raised a number of points  and I have considered them all carefully.  In 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service,  I will comment briefly here on 
the aspects I consider  relevant to the outcome. 
It is not in dispute  that the bank  made  an error in its process to change the direct debit, and 
that it closed Mrs Hs credit card account in error. Nor is it in dispute  that the bank has failed 
to provide an acceptable level of customer service. What remains in dispute is what is the 
right level of compensation. I disagree  with the banks argument  that it has already offered 
enough. 
I think the investigators recommendation to increase it to a total of £500 (including the £50 
for call costs) is fair. I say this having  considered  not just that the initial  cause of the problem 
was a bank error but also that there have been  repeated service  failings  from the bank 
during the attempted  resolution. I have listened  to a number of Mrs Hs calls with the bank  
before reaching  my conclusion. 
Like our investigator,  I havent seen evidence to allow me to safely agree with Mrs H that this 
situation with the bank  was the sole causal factor in the deterioration of her health and 
resignation. The medical evidence  she has supplied  refers to multiple stress factors, I cant 
know which were present at the time of her resignation. But I do not doubt it has played a 
part and my award considers this.
As the investigator  explained, we cant instruct the bank to offer Mrs H credit on the same 
terms. But she should be allowed to repay  any outstanding balance on a monthly basis, 
benefiting from the promotional interest  rate. 
I anticipate that Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision and it may be that Mrs H wants  
to take things further through other  routes.  But my decision will bring  to an end what  we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Halifax informally, can do for Mrs H. 
putting things right
Halifax should now pay directly to Mrs H £500  compensation in full and final settlement of 
this complaint. It should not offset this against any outstanding  balance.  Whilst I 
acknowledge it apologised for the initial direct  debit error in the final response  letter,  I think  in 
the circumstances, the bank  should  also issue a final apology  to Mrs H to take into account  
all the ongoing  service failings. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and Bank  of Scotland plc (treading  as Halifax) must  
compensate Mrs H as set out above.
Ref: DRN79474543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7947454