K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  
with a credit  card. She says she never  agreed to it and didnt even know she had PPI.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However Miss A has already received some  money  back for the commission Barclays 
received from selling her the PPI. Miss A still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint  has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I dont doubt that Miss As recollections about  being  mis-sold PPI are honestly  and 
genuinely held.  However, these events  took place a considerable time ago and records  
show that, as an existing Barclays customer,  Miss A applied  for a credit  card in 1997.
We know this because  we have a copy of the application form she used and I can see there  
is a yes or no option about having PPI with the new card. Miss As form had a tick in the 
yes box directly next to where it said Yes,  I want my Barclaycard Account to be covered 
against unemployment, accident,  sickness and death. She also signed the application 
form.
I think this therefore  shows its more likely she wanted PPI. But I also think  she would have 
seen her monthly credit card statements showing that she had taken out the PPI too. So, in 
my view, there  is strong  evidence that Miss A consented to the PPI policy  and would have 
been able to see PPI had been set up on her account.
Barclays says this was a branch application but Miss A disputes this. But this doesnt really  
matter to the outcome because a branch sale is more likely to have put additional 
responsibilities on to Barclays. Such sales required  business to make sure the policy was 
suited to the individual circumstances of the applicant  and I think  this PPI policy was 
suitable for Miss A.
I say this because  she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I also see that the cost was around 69p 
for every £100 outstanding on the card, which  I think  would have been affordable  for her. 
I note Miss A already had some protection against sickness with her job. But Im afraid this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. The policy would have  paid off, for example, 
Ref: DRN7142744210% of her outstanding credit card balance, for up to a year, if shed  needed to claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. 
So I think it was suitable for her. 
Barclays also had a duty to make  sure it provided  clear enough  information  to enable Miss A 
to make an informed decision about  what she wanted to do. I can certainly see ways in 
which the form could  have been  clearer. But I also think  some  additional written and verbal  
information about the rules and terms of the PPI would have been provided at the time of the 
sale. And even if I accept Barclays could and should  have  done  more, I still dont think this 
would have changed what Miss A went on to do. This is because  the evidence shows  she 
wanted the cover and would have seen she had a choice.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss A but I think the evidence shows  she chose the policy herself  
and would have  known it wasnt something  she needed to have in order to get the card.  This 
means Im not upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because  when  the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Miss A about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc has already paid her for the commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142744