K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that an ATM failed to give him money hed asked for and Barclays Bank UK 
PLC debited his account  anyway.  He wants the money credited to his account.  
background
On 8 June 2018 Mr W attempted to withdraw  £240 from his Barclays account at a store  
ATM. He says that the money  wasnt dispensed. He called Barclays  the same day to say he 
hadnt received  the money. 
Barclays raised a dispute and investigated  it but ultimately rejected it based on information 
from the ATM operator. Mr W complained to the bank  about this. In its written response 
dated 4 July 2018 the bank said that it had received information from the ATM owner 
showing there was no error or excess cash left in the machine. As it was a non-Barclays  
machine all Barclays could do was review the information. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold  his complaint so Mr W 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr W feels  Barclays  hasnt 
treated him fairly  thats evident because  hes brought his complaint to us. But Im afraid  Ill 
have to disappoint him, as I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more  in relation to his 
complaint. 
Mr W says he didnt receive  the £240  that Barclays debited from his account because the 
ATM he used  didnt dispense it. As Barclays didnt operate  the ATM, it asked for evidence  
from the ATM operator about the operation of the ATM on the day. This is what we would 
expect Barclays to do. 
Its provided that evidence  to us, and Ive looked  at it carefully. If the money hadnt been  
dispensed in response to Mr Ws request, I wouldve expected the money in the ATM not to 
balance when it was reconciled with transactions carried out. But I can see from the 
evidence provided  by the ATM operator that the cash in the ATM did balance  with the 
number of transactions made. So Im satisfied  that the £240 requested by Mr W was 
dispensed by the ATM. And I can also see that the transactions either side of Mr Ws request 
dispensed successfully.  So that also suggests  that the money was dispensed. 
Mr W says he didnt receive  it. And that he is struggling financially because of it. Hes also 
unhappy that CCTV footage wasnt obtained.  In her view to Mr W on his complaint, our 
investigator said that it hadnt  been possible to obtain the footage because it was only kept 
for 28 days.  Mr W isnt happy  about  this because he says he was told that it wasnt  needed. 
Im afraid I cant be sure that the CCTV footage wouldve shown anything useful even if it 
had been obtained. So where the evidence is contradictory, as it is here since Mr W says he 
didnt receive the money and Barclays has produced evidence showing the ATM was 
operating correctly, I have  to decide  what I think is most likely. In this case,  because  of the 
information provided by the ATM operator,  I think it is more  likely than not that the ATM 
Ref: DRN74482082dispensed the money. So although it will disappoint Mr W, and Im sorry for that, I dont think 
it would  be fair to ask Barclays to credit his account with the £240.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7448208