K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (the bank)  mis-sold him a fixed  rate commercial loan.
background
In 2013, when he was in his early 70s, Mr S borrowed around £290k  from the bank for 
commercial purposes and thereby refinanced existing variable rate loans. The rate under  the 
2013 loan was fixed for 12 years.  Break costs  were potentially payable if the loan were 
repaid in whole or in part while the interest  rate was fixed. In 2018  Mr S made  a large  
repayment under the loan, of around  £100k. In doing so he paid break costs of around £3k. 
Mr S is a commercial landlord and receives  yearly  rent which exceeds and has always  
exceeded his yearly repayments under the 2013 loan. 
Mr Ss job involved him giving advice including legal  advice  to members of the public. The 
borrowings had previously  been the responsibility of Mr Ss business, but he had decided, 
before 2013, to personally assume  responsibility for them.
Via his representative Mr S has complained about  the 2013  loan. In summary he says:
The bank  didnt  inform  him adequately about  the potential size of the break costs or 
about the other main features of the loan.
The bank  had told him, before he entered into the loan, that he could repay it at any 
time without paying any break costs. 
The bank, in league  with his financial adviser,  hurried  him into taking out the loan, 
which he felt forced  to enter into.
Given his age and his need  for flexibility, if hed known more about break costs he 
wouldnt have taken  out the fixed rate loan but would have borrowed at the variable 
rate instead.
The bank  ought to have disclosed to him, before he agreed to the loan, how it 
rewarded its staff for selling him the fixed rate loan.  
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr Ss complaint. It concluded that Mr S must be taken to have 
known what the main features of the loan were, including the potential break costs.  There 
was no evidence Mr S had been  pressured  into agreeing to the loan. The break costs he 
paid were within the range of those that had been  illustrated in the pre-loan explanatory 
material. The bank had duly considered Mr Ss age before agreeing  to lend and had noted  
Mr Ss succession planning. The bank had no duty to disclose how it rewarded its staff.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think  Mr S had been  forced  to enter  
into the loan. The bank wasnt responsible for how Mr Ss financial adviser had acted. Mr S 
had signed papers specifically referring to break  costs, so he must be taken to have known 
they existed. There  was no evidence from 2013  that Mr S would be seeking to repay the 
loan early. It was unlikely that Mr S signed  the loan documents  without checking  the basic 
details or without appreciating the difference between  a variable rate loan and a fixed rate 
loan. If he had any concerns or was unclear about anything,  he could have asked before 
committing himself.  A clearer description of break  costs wouldnt have led to a different 
outcome. 
The adjudicator also concluded the bank was entitled to make its own decisions about how 
to remunerate its staff and price  financial products   it wasnt  required to disclose  information  
Ref: DRN77121782about staff pay or profit levels when setting  out the terms  of a deal which it was prepared  to 
offer a customer.  No commission was paid to an intermediary, and the price  Mr S paid for 
the loan was clear  from the outset.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked for a review of his complaint by 
an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I too have 
concluded his complaint  doesnt succeed.
My reasons  are broadly  similar to the adjudicators.  My additional  comments  are:
Mr S, his adviser and the bank had been  in discussions about a possible fixed rate 
loan in 2011. On that occasion the adviser  reported  to the bank that Mr S didnt wish 
to proceed with such a loan.  So it appeared Mr S was capable  of considering a fixed  
rate loan proposition and rejecting it. I see no reason why this should have been any 
different in 2013.
If Mr S is alleging his adviser  failed  him in some  way, that isnt of course the 
responsibility of the bank. If the bank reasonably believes,  as I think  it could  in this 
case, that an adviser is acting  in good faith on behalf of a customer, the bank is 
entitled to assume that what it tells the adviser  will be conveyed to the customer.
Theres no evidence the bank conspired  with the adviser to force a loan on Mr S.
Theres no evidence Mr S was forced  to enter  into the loan. The 2013 loan 
refinanced existing, non-expiring variable  rate loans. If Mr S felt under undue 
pressure to agree to the 2013  loan, he could have simply continued with the existing 
loans, as he did in 2011. 
Given Mr Ss profession, I think it unlikely  he would  sign a loan document borrowing 
nearly £300k and providing security for such a loan without acquainting himself  with 
the basic terms, including break costs.  But if he didnt read the loan documents 
before signing  them,  he should  have realised  from his professional  knowledge that 
he was bound by the terms contained in the documents in any event.
Theres no evidence the bank advised  Mr S to take out the fixed  rate loan. The loan 
documents state that no such advice was given by the bank. That being so, the bank 
didnt owe Mr S any duty to ensure the loan was appropriate for him, including in 
relation to his age. The bank was entitled to consider if it was in its own interests to 
lend to Mr S. In this respect, I note the loan repayments were  covered by rental 
income, which would be unaffected  by Mr Ss age. 
I think it unlikely the bank would have told Mr S he could repay  the loan under all 
circumstances without  paying break  costs.  Even  if the bank  had said that, it was 
contradicted by its own documents which Mr S acknowledged  hed read. 
When discussing a possible fixed rate loan with Mr S/his  adviser in 2011, the bank  
had set out the option of leaving  part of the lending  on the variable rate, to retain 
flexibility for part repayments without any penalties. This indicates that Mr S knew 
how to retain flexibility  if that was what he wished. It also indicates that Mr S knew  
there might be sizeable break  costs  to pay if he fixed  the interest rate on all his 
borrowing and he then wished to make early repayments. 
Even if the information that the bank supplied to Mr S about break costs in 2011  and 
2013 wasnt adequate in itself and the deficiency  wasnt  made good by the existing 
knowledge of Mr S or his adviser, I think Mr S would still have gone  ahead with the 
Ref: DRN7712178312-year fixed rate loan if hed known how large the break costs  might be. I say this 
because theres no indication from 2013  that Mr S intended to repay the loan early.  
Interest rates were  very low in 2013 and there  were  obvious attractions to fixing loan 
costs at that time, especially as those costs were  covered by fixed  rental  income and 
Mr Ss employment income was age- and health-dependent.  And he didnt  opt to 
leave part of his borrowings  on the variable rate, which  is how he could have avoided  
or mitigated the possibility of the still quite sizeable break costs mentioned in the 
banks illustrations. 
The bank  wasnt under any obligation  to disclose commission or how it rewarded its 
staff in relation  to the loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7712178