K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  he couldnt make a payment  from his Lloyds Bank Plc account. And when 
he complained  the bank  didnt respond immediately.
background
In January 2019 Mr T had a problem with his banking. He wanted to pay a bill. But his Lloyds 
account wasnt allowing  faster payments. Hed already tried to pay from another bank. And 
hed had the same problem.  So Mr T had to use a different account to settle  his bill.
Mr T said the first bank paid him £100  compensation when he couldnt make  the payment.  
But Lloyds had only offered him £40 plus costs for his calls.  So he thinks Lloyds should  
compensate him more   especially as it took longer  to log the complaint. And the same call 
hander had dealt with both complaints. Lloyds  apologised for the difficulties Mr T had 
experienced with the faster payment system.  And it could see it hadnt responded to his 
email when he tried to raise a complaint. 
Lloyds said it could  see Mr T was unhappy  he had to stay on the telephone when he called 
to log his complaint.  But that was the normal  procedure  in the circumstances. And it hadnt  
been aware Mr T had missed a meeting while he stayed on the telephone. Lloyds paid Mr T 
£52.20 for the inconvenience and costs  hed suffered.
Mr T wasnt satisfied  with Lloydss response. So he contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She could see Mr T had tried to send  £1 through  Lloyds 
after his other bank account had reported a problem  sending  faster  payments. And he was 
unhappy his complaint wasnt dealt  with efficiently. But she felt Lloyds offer of £40 plus the 
costs of his call was fair in the circumstances. Mr T didnt agree. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand Mr Ts frustration. He tried to make  a payment from a bank account but the 
faster payment  system  wasnt  working. And he tried the same  process  using his Lloyds 
account but it also failed. Although this time Mr T tried to just send £1 as a test.
Lloyds has apologised  for the inconvenience  caused. The problems with the faster payment 
system were resolved the same day. But it recognised Mr T had been inconvenienced. And 
it hadnt responded when  he first complained by email. So the bank paid Mr T a total of 
£52.20 for his trouble  and upset and the cost of his call.
Mr T was initially inconvenienced by the failure of his payment from the other bank. So he 
tried to send £1 as a test from his Lloyds account.  But that didnt work either. And Mr T had 
to use a third account to settle his bill. I realise Mr T feels the compensation hes received 
from the two different banks is inconsistent. But I have to look at this complaint separately.  I 
cant base my decision on what the other bank felt was reasonable in those particular  
circumstances. And I dont think it would be fair to expect Lloyds to offer the same  
compensation for a £1 payment sent as a test.
Ref: DRN78130512Mr T said it took longer  to resolve this complaint.  He missed an important  meeting while he 
had to wait on the telephone to complaint. And I appreciate this mustve been  frustrating. But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr T told Lloyds he had a meeting when he called to 
complain. And it was his decision to remain on the call rather than try again at a later time.
I do recognise Mr T has been inconvenienced  by Lloyds when his faster payment failed. And 
although he didnt  suffer any financial  loss he had to call to follow  up his email  complaint. But 
its the role of this service  to award what we think is fair and reasonable. And I think Lloyds 
offer of £40 compensation with a further  £12.20  for the cost of Mr Ts call is reasonable in 
the circumstances. And I wont be asking  the bank to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7813051