K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about charges that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited is asking 
her to pay in relation to a car it hired  to her.
Mrs R is represented in her complaint by her husband but to make this decision  easier  to 
read, Ill refer to everything  thats  been  said on her behalf as if Mrs R had said it herself.
background
In March 2016 Mrs R entered into a hire agreement  with VWFS for a new car. As part of the 
agreement Mrs R agreed to pay VWFS for damage  to the car that went  beyond wear  and 
tear.
At the end of contract, VWFS sent round an expert  to assess the state of the car. According  
to Mrs R they disagreed  about what,  if anything  needed  to be repaired.  They  also disagreed  
about the cost of the repairs. Nonetheless, Mrs R had some  repairs done at her own 
expense and the bill was reduced. But Mrs R still thought the remaining charges were 
unreasonable. In her opinion, the remaining repairs were not needed because the car was in 
immaculate condition. And in any event, the work VWFS wanted  to charge her for could 
have been done for a fraction  of the cost.
The car was returned to VWFS. Shortly after this, Mrs R was contacted by a third party  
company working  for VWFS. The third party company asked  her to pay the charges. Mrs R 
declined this request.  Instead, she contacted VWFS to say she still disagreed with the 
remaining charges.  VWFS acknowledged her stance. It reduced  the charges from £186.60 
to £110.40. Mrs R remained unhappy  and asked that the person she was speaking to refer 
the matter to someone more senior.
To her surprise, the next contact she got from VWFS was a letter from a debt recovery agent  
asking her to pay £186.60. Again Mrs R contacted VWFS to tell it about her continuing 
objections. She thought  that it had taken  on board  what  she had said, but instead all that 
happened is she got another letter demanding she pay VWFS  £186.60.  
Mrs R got in touch with VWFS once  again. However, they were  not able to resolve  their 
differences. 
Dissatisfied with the responses shed receive so far Mrs R came to our service. Mrs R 
indicated that she would  like proof  that VWFS spent £110.40 on the repairs.  She suggested, 
once more, that she could have got the job done  herself for much  less. She told us she 
wasnt given a fair opportunity to do the repairs herself. She asked for compensation for how 
she has been made to feel when she was contacted  about  the debt. She felt that VWFS had 
not co-operated with her. She told us that VWFS  had told her it wouldnt involve a third party  
in recovering the debt, and then it had. It had made her worry about her credit file and what 
further action  it would take.  Plus she didnt think she owed it anything anyway. She wanted 
compensation for this. Further, her husband was involved in the complaint too and she 
asked for compensation for him as well.
VWFSs position was that under the terms of the agreement it is entitled  to charge Mrs R for 
damage that goes  beyond  fair wear and tear. It assesses this by reference to the guidelines 
provided by the BVRLA. It had a report done, by an expert, using  these guidelines. The 
report showed that the damage exceeded  the definition of fair wear and tear in the 
Ref: DRN73939152guidelines. That said, it had reduced the charges,,  it didnt say why it had done  this. 
Nonetheless it suggested the remaining charges should stand.
Moreover, VWFS agreed it had initially told Mrs R that it would not use a third party  to chase 
her for the outstanding charges. But it explained as far as it was concerned, it had put things 
right by giving  her the correct information  shortly  after this.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint. She didnt recommend  upholding it. She 
concluded that under the agreement  VWFS was entitled to charge for the damage. It didnt 
have to show that it had done  the repairs and that theyd cost £110.40. 
Our investigator agreed that at first, VWFS had given Mrs R wrong  information  about how it 
goes about recovering  debts from its customers. But within three days it had given Mrs R 
correct information  about this. 
Moreover, she thought  Mrs R ought  to reasonably have  been aware of what repairs  shed 
need to do if she wanted to avoid  the charges. And our investigator didnt agree that Mrs R 
had been treated unfairly just because  the inspection and collection of the car happened at 
the same  time.
It appeared that VWFS accepted our investigators  recommendation, Mrs R did not. In 
summary, she suggested we had missed the point.  The main  issue  that she had been 
concerned about  was that she wasnt given a fair opportunity to repair the damage. She was 
under the impression that the car would be inspected and then she would be given a chance 
to put things right.
Mrs R asked that her complaint be passed  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive finished my review  of Mrs Rs complaint. I am not upholding it. I realise  this may 
disappoint her. That is not my intention. Please let me explain why Ive come  to this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
the repairs
Ref: DRN73939153It seems  both the parties agree that their agreement  allows VWFS to charge Mrs R for 
damage that goes  beyond  the definition of wear  and tear in the guidelines.  As a starting 
point at least, I think it is fair that VWFS  be allowed  to rely on the terms of the agreement 
that both parties  freely  entered into.
Mrs R says her main  point is that she wasnt allowed to put the damage right not that she 
was charged for it. And further VWFS led her to believe that there would be a gap between, 
the inspection  and when the car was taken away, so shed have a chance to repair  the car. 
Added to which Mrs R says she was told by the expert that " We used to allow up to 7 days 
to have anything  rectified  but we don't anymore. That changed in April 2019".  She tells us 
she returned the car before April 2019, so that policy should have been applied  to her. 
Moreover, she also says that VWFS  also told her this was best practice too.
Further, she says that on the day of the inspection her husband offered to do the remaining 
repairs. But he was told it was too late because the inspector had already listed the repairs  
on his sheet. She suggested that this meant a) it would have been possible had he not have 
completed his job sheet or b) this was just a case of the vehicle examiner not wanting to 
create further paperwork and come  back for the car a week  later.  Either way this wasnt  her 
fault.
VWFS records show that it sent Mrs R several  letters well before the agreement  ended.  She 
has not said she didnt  receive these letters. Rather, Mrs R has pointed  to one line, in 
isolation, from one of the letters. She says that sentence gave her the misleading impression 
that shed be given a chance  to repair the car after the inspection. But I dont think that it is 
fair or reasonable  to read the letter in this way. I think the letter needs to be read as a whole. 
I think overall the letter makes it clear  that if Mrs R wants to repair the car she ought  to do so 
without delay and before the inspection. Specifically the letter says:
What you need to do
Time is running out to assess the condition of your vehicle.  You still have time to carry out 
any repairs should they be necessary, to minimise the chances of end of contract  charges  
being invoiced. We recently sent you the BVRLA's Fair Wear and Tear standard which 
included a self-appraisal vehicle condition form.
The letter also says
What happens next?
The inspection process takes approximately 30 minutes and the inspector will assess the 
condition of the vehicle against  the BVRLA's Fair Wear and Tear standard,  any damage that 
falls outside of this standard will be noted  as well as the cost to refurbish or replace any 
missing items. You'll be asked to sign to confirm your acceptance of the report.
In addition, the expert may well have said" We used to allow up to 7 days to have anything 
rectified. Although who the we is in this context is unclear. The expert  is an entirely 
separate company from VWFS. So it is debatable whether it is talking about VWFSs 
approach at all. Further,  the employee of VWFS may have agreed this was best practice.  
But this isnt what was in the agreement. I dont think  it is fair and reasonable for me to 
retrospectively insert a provision into the contract between the parties, on the basis that two 
people involved in the complaint, have told Mrs R this would be best practice.
Ref: DRN73939154Mrs R also told us that on the day of the inspection her husband did carry out some  repairs 
and the expert reduced the bill as a result. This suggests to me she was given a chance 
even on the day of the inspection to put the damage right. It seems it was only after her 
husband had done his initial repairs that the expert then declined  to let Mrs R do anything 
further.
Also, Im not persuaded that Mrs R would have  taken any further  action, in any event. She 
said the car was in immaculate condition. If she thought this was so, it seems she would  not 
have agreed to do any further repairs  even  if the expert had left the car with her.
In all of the circumstances, for the reasons I have gone through above, I think  Mrs R did 
have a fair opportunity to repair the car. 
When she complained  at first Mrs R was upset  about the cost of the repair and she wanted 
VWFS to prove it had spent this amount on repairing the car. It seems this part of her 
complaint has fallen away as she told us this wasnt the main  part of her complaint. But in 
case I am mistaken about this, Ive looked  at this point.
VWFS is not obliged, under the agreement, to show that the damage was repaired and did 
cost this amount  to put right. Rather, it is obliged to show the damage was there  and it has 
done this. I think  the cost seems proportionate  for the repair. I recognise Mrs R estimates 
she could have got the work done for much  less. But as I mention above she had a fair 
chance to do the repairs  herself. And I am not persuaded that her laymans  estimate of a 
reasonable cost for the repairs is more  persuasive  than the estimate provided by the expert. 
In summary,  for all of these reasons I find I have no proper basis to say VWFS has to waive  
the charges it wants Mrs R to pay.
debt recovery
It is not ideal  that VWFS  gave Mrs R incorrect information about  who it would use to recover  
the debt. But it seems it corrected this very quickly. 
Further, Mrs R suggests that it was not so much that she was contacted  by the debt 
recovery agents that upset her as that she thought she was contacted  for no reason. 
Moreover, she worried about her credit  score and about what  further  action might  be taken.
However, I cant fairly say she was contacted  for no reason. She owed VWFS  money under 
the terms of the agreement even if she didnt think this was correct. No information had been 
incorrectly marked on her credit  file, as far as I can see. And I would expect a business to tell 
a customer what further steps it will take if the customer does not agree to pay a debt it is 
entitled to claim.
I dont agree that overall VWFS  didnt cooperate with Mrs R. Rather  she and it saw things 
differently. But I dont think it is fair to say it did not act constructively.
For all of these reasons I think I have no proper  basis  to compensate Mrs R for this.
For completeness I should mention, that Mrs R asked for compensation for her husband too. 
However, only Mrs R is an eligible complainant here. That is she is the only person who had 
an agreement with VWFS albeit it seems that her relative is the one who actually used the 
Ref: DRN73939155car. That being the case, I have no power  to require VWFS to make any award for her 
husband.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7393915