K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the redemption of their shared equity mortgage, which is 
administered by Hampton Mortgage Servicing Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  their property in 2009  with the aid of both a conventional mortgage and 
a second charge shared  equity loan, which was lent by a company Ill call P. P appointed 
Hampton to administer  the loan on its behalf.  Ive seen the power  of attorney granted to 
Hampton, and it gives Hampton full decision making  authority in respect of this loan.
Mr and Mrs C borrowed a 25% share of the property purchase price  from P. The term of the 
loan was for ten years, and it was interest  free for that period. Mr and Mrs C were  required to 
repay 25% of the sale price if they sold the property  before the end of the ten year term, or 
25% of the agreed value after ten years if the property wasnt  sold by then.  No interest was 
chargeable in the meantime. 
In 2018, Mr and Mrs C decided to pay back their loan and re-mortgage their main  mortgage 
at the same  time. They  asked Hampton for a redemption statement. Unfortunately Hampton 
asked for 15% of the property  value,  not 25% - around £54,000 not £91,000.  
Mr and Mrs C arranged a new mortgage  to raise enough funds to pay off both their existing 
mortgage and the £54,000  redemption quoted by Hampton. It was only after the mortgage  
had been completed and the money  paid over that Hampton realised its mistake.  It told Mr 
and Mrs C that they still owed around £38,000 and said that if the money  wasnt  repaid it 
would have to take legal  action to recover it.
Mr and Mrs C complained. They  said theyd  paid back what Hampton had asked.  They didnt 
have the rest of the money,  and they couldnt  borrow it because their new mortgage  lender 
wasnt willing to lend them  a further advance so soon after the mortgage completed. 
Hampton offered to reduce the amount outstanding by 10% to reflect the mistake, and 
offered £500 to assist with the costs of Mr and Mrs C raising additional funds.  But it also said 
it expected Mr and Mrs C either to repay the outstanding  amount, or give it full details  of their 
income and expenditure so it could set a repayment plan, or it would take legal  action.
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs Cs new mortgage had an early repayment  charge 
(ERC) until 2020. It was Hamptons mistake that led to the full amount of their shared equity 
loan not being paid off. He noted that Mr and Mrs C said theyd found another lender that 
would lend them the full amount, so he said Hampton should pay the costs of moving their 
mortgage to another lender  including the ERC.  Hampton didnt accept that and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I take the point  that although Hampton made an error here, Mr and Mrs C could have 
realised there was a problem too. They knew the loan amount was 25% - the original loan 
documentation sets it out, and theyve  quoted  that figure in correspondence with Hampton  
Ref: DRN74105892and arguably should  have  noticed  that the redemption statement quoted 15% as well as the 
wrong amount.
But theres no doubt that Hamptons mistake  in asking for 15% is the root of whats  gone  
wrong here.  Everything  else flows from that. Mr and Mrs C, and their solicitor, relied on what 
theyd been told was the exact figure needed to redeem the loan  and thats what they paid.
So Hampton  clearly asked for the wrong  amount. But I dont think  that means that its no 
longer entitled  to ask for the remaining 10% on behalf of P. Mr and Mrs C borrowed that 
amount, and should pay it back.  Theyd understood right from the start that theyd borrowed 
25%. They were asked for the wrong figure,  and paid what theyd been asked for. But it was 
clearly a mistake, and doesnt change the fact that the real figure  required to redeem the 
loan is 25%.
Hampton has since agreed  to remove the charge over the property so that the mortgage 
could complete and the new lenders charge be registered without problems. Im pleased  to 
see its done that. That means the remaining 10% is now an unsecured debt, and Hampton 
is entitled, on behalf of P, to collect that debt from Mr and Mrs C.
However, I dont think its acted fairly in the way its gone about doing so. Its been quick to 
suggest that it will take Mr and Mrs C to court  even though  it was Hampton that made  the 
mistake. I can understand why it wanted  details of Mr and Mrs Cs income and expenditure, 
but I think its unlikely  they had the outstanding sum to hand, or that they were in a position 
to pay it off in instalments  over anything other than a longer period.
I think Hampton should have been more sympathetic,  and more  willing  to consider other  
options. For example,  the loan agreement says the loan should  be repaid within ten years.  
Mr and Mrs C were only at nine years when they made the 15% payment. The loan 
agreement allows for partial redemptions of more than 6.25% of the propertys value (clause 
5). Thats in effect  what Mr and Mrs C have done   albeit because of Hamptons mistake 
rather than deliberately  so Hampton  could  have allowed them  until May 2019, the tenth 
anniversary, rather than insisting on full payment or a payment arrangement immediately. 
And clause  4(a) allows the ten year period to be extended in one year increments up to 15 
years  so Hampton could potentially have allowed Mr and Mrs C until May 2024.  Clause 
4(a) comes into operation  because Mr and Mrs Cs new mortgage lender has said it wont 
agree further  borrowing for them to repay the additional 10%.
However, given everything thats  happened, the fact that the charge has now been removed 
and the breakdown of trust,  I think  the fairest way forward  here is for the outstanding sum to 
be paid off as soon as possible.
Mr and Mrs C have managed to get a mortgage  offer from another  lender, with the 
assistance of a broker, who is willing to lend the amount needed  to repay  P in full. That 
mortgage offer expires on 30 September 2019   so there is time for Mr and Mrs C to 
complete on that mortgage if they accept  this final decision promptly.
In order for Mr and Mrs C to complete on the new mortgage, and raise the appropriate  funds, 
they will need to pay the following:
Legal costs
Valuation fee 
Broker fee 
Ref: DRN74105893Lender fee 
ERC to the old lender of 2% of the redemption balance.
When it first realised  its mistake,  Hampton  reduced the outstanding amount Mr and Mrs C 
still had to pay by 10% - around £3,800. And its offered an additional £500 compensation. 
Ive said above  that I think  Hampton is entitled  to recover  the full amount from Mr and Mrs C, 
and so I think a reduction in the amount it will collect is fair compensation and offsets the 
additional costs  Mr and Mrs C will incur in re-mortgaging. But the ERC  of 2% of the 
redemption balance is likely to be around £5,300  the exact amount will depend on the 
balance on the day. I think its fair for Hampton to pay the ERC that Mr and Mrs C will incur 
in raising the funds  to repay  their debt to P. And I think Mr and Mrs C have suffered 
considerable trouble and upset as a result of whats gone wrong here  both in discovering 
the additional debt they would have to pay, and in the way Hampton  tried to recover it from 
them before they complained. I think £500  is fair compensation for that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. Provided Mr and 
Mrs C complete their new mortgage before 30 September 2019 and repay the remaining  
debt to P, I direct Hampton Mortgage Servicing Limited to:
Refund to Mr and Mrs C the early repayment charge they will pay to their new lender  
within 28 days of the date Mr and Mrs C provide  it with a copy  of the redemption  
statement showing the amount of the charge;
Allow Mr and Mrs C to pay off the outstanding debt to P, reduced by 10%;
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation.
The £500  compensation  is to be paid within 28 days of the date we notify Hampton 
Mortgage Servicing  Limited that Mr and Mrs C accept  this decision, if it hasnt been paid 
already. And the early  repayment charge is to be refunded by the deadline Ive set above.  In 
either case, if Hampton does not make payment by the applicable  deadline, it should  add 
simple annual interest of 8% running  from the deadline to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7410589