K821x#15complaint
Miss B is unhappy about the way Nationwide Building Society has handled her account 
closure, removed the overdraft, that one of her complaints wasnt logged,  the service  she 
received, credit score issues  and her subject access requests.
background
Miss B had a conversation with Nationwide during  which she was informed that it would be 
closing her account. Nationwide said it felt the relationship between  them  had broken down. 
It gave Miss B notice  of the closure.
Miss B said Nationwide then removed  her overdraft facility from the account without telling 
her. Miss B was under the impression she would have full access  to the account and its 
facilities until closure. But Nationwide  said its entitled  within  its terms and conditions to 
remove the overdraft  facility at any time, and that a letter was sent to Miss B informing  her of 
all the details.
When Miss B called to log a complaint  about the closure of her account, this wasnt  done.  
So, Miss B asked to speak to a supervisor. She said she was put on hold multiple  times 
during the call. Nationwide  said it felt this was more commentary about  an existing complaint 
and it didnt consider  it necessary to open  a new complaint. Instead it added the details of 
Miss Bs dissatisfaction to the existing complaint. But Nationwide apologised that Miss B was 
put on hold and not passed to a supervisor,  it accepted the service shouldve  been better 
and offered £30 compensation for the trouble  and upset  caused.
In addition, Miss B made several subject access requests (SAR). Miss B said the responses 
from Nationwide were  sent to an incorrect neighbouring  address. And in relation to one of the 
SARs when she did receive it, the document had been partially opened. Miss B said the 
incorrect details held by Nationwide regarding the incorrect address had reflected on her 
credit file. Nationwide said it had no record of having an incorrect  address for Miss B and that 
the SAR information she had received had all been correctly  signed for by Miss B on receipt. 
It said there was no evidence of an incorrect address and no impact  on her credit score.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. He said Nationwide  should pay £250 
compensation overall for the errors  it had made  in relation to its handling of the overdraft, 
poor service and the incorrect address  details.  But neither Miss B or Nationwide  agreed. So, 
the complaint  was passed on to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill address the complaint 
points separately.  
removal of overdraft facility
Nationwide made  a decision to end its relationship with Miss B and close her account. This 
is something its entitled to do under the accounts  terms  and conditions.  Miss B was 
informed of this decision  over the telephone.  She was given the standard notice period and 
told that a letter would  be sent reiterating  this. In the letter, Nationwide  advised that the 
overdraft facility would be removed immediately. But Miss B said she didnt receive it and 
was therefore  unaware.  
Ref: DRN70783562Our investigator said Nationwide were  entitled to withdraw the overdraft and that its letter 
was sufficient notice  of its intended  actions.  He referred to the overdrafts terms and 
conditions which said all overdrafts are repayable on demand, but that Nationwide  will try to 
give advance notice  before reducing or withdrawing  the limit which can be done at any time.
Our investigator said Nationwide couldve informed Miss B of its intentions over the phone  
given that it had a conversation with her the same  day it removed the facility.  He felt 
Nationwide couldve done more to ensure Miss B knew what  would  be happening to her 
account.
Nationwide doesnt  accept this point. It said at the time Miss B was in credit. It said Miss B 
had several transactions take place  after this pushing the account into overdraft.
I accept what Nationwide  has said here. Theres no doubt it couldve done better if it had told 
Miss B about the loss of the overdraft facility  during  the call. But its clear  that it complied  
with its own terms and conditions by writing to Miss B and informing her regarding  the 
overdraft facility and the account closure. It dealt  with the letter  on the same day as the call. 
I understand Miss B said she never got the letter but based  on the evidence Nationwide did 
send it.
failure to log a complaint
Miss B said she tried to log a new complaint about  the closure of her account. But 
Nationwide failed to do so. Instead, it added  the details as a follow  up to an existing 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think this was unreasonable. He said the important thing  was that 
Nationwide provided  its written response to the further complaint point. So, Miss B wasnt  
disadvantaged in any way. I can see that Nationwide dealt with the issues raised  by Miss B 
so whether this was entirely separately done  or as part of an existing complaint isnt the 
crucial point. I think the crucial thing  is that Miss Bs issue was considered and dealt with. 
So, theres no detriment  to Miss B or her complaint point.
customer service
When Miss B called to enquire about  her new complaint, she asked to speak to a supervisor.  
This didnt  happen  right away,  and she was placed on hold (sometimes  without notice) 
several times. Nationwide  accept  that Miss B was entitled to expect better  service  during this 
call. It acknowledged  this and has offered £30 compensation  for any upset caused. Our 
investigator felt this was fair. In relation to the service issues  around this call I think  the £30 
offer from Nationwide regarding this call is a reasonable outcome.
incorrect address and credit score  impact
Miss B said Nationwide had recorded her address details incorrectly  which  she thinks meant 
she wasnt receiving its correspondence. Miss B said this was showing  on her credit  file, 
affecting her credit, and once it was rectified, her credit score improved.
Ref: DRN70783563After seeing evidence of issues with Miss Bs address  Nationwide  acknowledged that the 
address details were  incorrect. I understand why Miss B would be frustrated  that her address  
wasnt showing correctly. Nationwide shouldve had these  details  appropriately logged  at all 
times. But Nationwide said this was resolved and that it wouldnt have affected Miss Bs 
credit score. Ive no reason to dispute  this. And Ive no evidence  that show  me it did cause 
any impact on Miss Bs credit.
subject access requests
Miss B said Nationwide sent her SAR information  to the incorrect address. She said she 
didnt receive all the details. And that one was received but the house letter  was incorrect,  
and the parcel  had been partially opened.
Nationwide didnt accept  this. It said all SAR information was sent recorded delivery and that 
the parcels had been signed for. So, it was satisfied theyd been received.
But during  our investigation information revealed  that two SAR information requests hadnt 
been delivered and had been returned to Nationwide.  When these had got back to 
Nationwide the details were then confidentially disposed  of. Further, other SAR details did 
have the address wrongly noted,  but fortunately managed  to reach Miss B. One such  
package had been partially  opened.
Our investigator felt Nationwide couldve done  a better job or tracking the SAR details and 
letters to find out what had happened. This wouldve reassured  Miss B that her personal 
information hadnt in fact been received by someone else. Our investigator upheld  this 
element of the complaint.  He said Miss B wouldve been caused  a great deal of distress by 
not knowing where this information was. Especially given the sensitive nature of it  i.e. her 
financial details.
I think thats a fair point.  The sole purpose of sending information recorded delivery is so that 
it can be tracked to see where  it is. So, when  Miss B advised Nationwide  that details hadnt 
been received,  Nationwide shouldve  acted on that much more quickly. And it shouldve  
informed Miss B of the parcels  whereabouts.
Miss B also referred to a fifth SAR request that was meant to be provided  to her through  her 
Nationwide branch. Miss B said it wasnt and that after a period of time it went  back to 
Nationwide main office and it sent it to her through unrecorded post. Miss B said it never 
arrived. Miss B feels her information could again be at risk. Nationwide  has said it has no 
record of such a request  or any details of providing anything to a local branch at Miss Bs 
request. Again I can understand  Miss Bs concerns if previous issues  are anything to go by.
I can understand how not knowing wouldve been distressing for Miss B. Part of the reason 
for her requests in the first place was due to her concerns  about  her information and how it 
was being used. This wouldve had an impact on Miss B and Nationwide  failed to act 
reasonably so it should compensate her for her distress and inconvenience. Nationwide 
feels the amount  suggested by our investigator was too much. But I dont think it is. Miss B 
clearly was concerned  and continues to reiterate her concerns to Nationwide, but it hasnt 
deal with these  reasonably and its service let Miss B down. So Nationwide  should pay 
Miss B £250 as compensation for the trouble and upset she has suffered.
Ref: DRN70783564my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part.
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Miss B compensation of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7078356