K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) for issues  in its handling 
of her opening her account, as part of a Recommend  a Friend scheme.  She wants 
additional compensation to reflect her inconvenience. 
background
In summer  2017, Mrs K attended  a branch  of Nationwide  with her son. He was an existing 
customer of Nationwide  and introduced  Mrs K as a new customer. 
Mrs K does not speak  English so arrangement was made for an interpreter at her initial  
appointment.
Mrs K completed her account opening  forms and transferred  her account from her previous 
bank. She subsequently  set up direct debits from the account, but the incentive  payment of 
£100, which she and her son both expected, was not paid to them.  
Mrs K and her son contacted Nationwide a number of times to query  what  was wrong and 
why the incentives had not been  paid.  During these contacts Mrs K encountered  difficulties 
obtaining interpreting  support. 
Staff did not identify  that there had been  issues  with Mrs Ks account opening forms and that 
she had not set up enough direct  debits to qualify for the incentive. This was not clearly 
communicated to Mrs K and she had to attend  a branch on several further occasions, 
despite having limited mobility.  
Mrs K complained to Nationwide. Nationwide sent its final response letter in July 2018.  
Nationwide acknowledged  that Mrs K had attended the branch on a number of occasions 
and that its staff had failed to identify the problem with the account opening. Nationwide  
offered to pay to both Mrs K and her son the incentive payments, and offered Mrs K a further 
£100 to reflect her distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs K was not satisfied  with that response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Ks complaint and set out her view to the 
parties. She considered that it was not clear  why Mrs Ks application had not qualified for the 
incentive, and that Nationwide was likely  responsible  for the delay in the incentive  being 
paid. She considered that Nationwide had acted reasonably in its offer of compensation, and 
in paying the incentive to Mrs K and her son, albeit  later than they had expected. 
Mrs K has not accepted  that view, so the complaint has been  passed for ombudsman  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the difficulties  Mrs K has experienced throughout the course of this matter. She 
is not comfortable speaking English and has relied  on an interpreter or for her son to assist  
Ref: DRN79085622her in completing information. It is also clear that attending the branch on multiple occasions 
to address this issue has been inconvenient  and has exacerbated her mobility issues 
Nationwide explained  that the account opening process had not been completed  correctly in 
order for Mrs K and her son to both receive the incentive. It accepted that Mrs K had then 
attended the branch on a number of occasions to discuss why they had not received the 
incentive, but was unable  to explain why Mrs K had not been assisted in correcting  the 
issue. Nationwide considered that it had not made an error in not initially issuing the 
incentive, but accepted  that Nationwide staff ought  to have assisted Mrs K further in her later 
visits, and that it provided a poor service.  
I agree  with this and am pleased that Nationwide has acknowledged its service  failings. I am 
also pleased  that Nationwide has decided to pay the incentive to both Mrs K and her son, 
even after the delay. 
Mrs K does not consider that the compensation is sufficient to reflect her distress and 
inconvenience. 
I understand her view but I have taken into account  the circumstances and I agree with the 
adjudicator that the additional offer of £100 is in line with other awards we would make in 
similar circumstances. 
In reaching this view,  I have borne  in mind that Mrs K attended  the branch on a number of 
occasions, which was difficult  for her, but that these attendances were in order  to discuss an 
incentive which had not been  paid, rather than to resolve a problem which was having a 
detrimental effect on Mrs K. I appreciate that it will have been  inconvenient for Mrs K to 
attend, but as the incentive  was always  going  to be a bonus I do not think there  being  a 
delay in receiving  it will have caused substantial distress. 
Consequently, I think that Nationwide has made some mistakes  in its handling of Mrs Ks 
account, but I think it has made a reasonable offer to compensate these.  I therefore  do not 
ask Nationwide  to do anything further. 
I understand that this decision will be disappointing  for Mrs K, but I hope  it explains why I 
have reached this view.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint,  but consider that Nationwide  
Building Society has made a reasonable offer to resolve the complaint. I do not ask it to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7908562