K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  they were given unsuitable mortgage advice by an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited in 2006 and again in 2008.
background
In 2006, Mr and Mrs P took advice from L&G, following which they re-mortgaged  to another  
lender, consolidating unsecured debt in the process.  They did the same again  in 2008. 
Theyre now represented by a claims management  company  (CMC),  which  says both 
mortgages were unsuitable.  It says Mr and Mrs P should have been advised  to remain with 
their existing lender,  that debt consolidation wasnt appropriate, and that the fees paid were 
unfair.
L&G didnt think the mortgage advice was unsuitable. It offered to refund the interest Mr and 
Mrs P have incurred by adding the cost of a will package to the mortgage,  and to refund 
commission the broker received from the solicitors, together  with £250 compensation. The 
CMC didnt think that was a fair offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this was unsuitable mortgage advice. Mr and Mrs P were,  in both cases, at the 
end of a fixed  rate period  and looking to move to new rates. I dont have any evidence  that 
their existing providers  had better rates  available,  and I dont  think  its unreasonable to look 
at the whole of the market for the best mortgage.  The CMC makes the point that the broker  
could have advised Mr and Mrs P to remain  with their existing lender to avoid paying fees  
but whether it arranged  new mortgages with the existing lender or with new lenders its fees 
would have been payable.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs P consolidated some unsecured debt. Ive looked  at the fact find 
completed at the time  which Ive no reason to doubt  and it shows  that Mr and Mrs P had 
very little disposable income each month.  While  consolidating their debts did increase  the 
overall cost of repayment, it also significantly  reduced  their monthly outgoings   which  it 
seems to me was necessary, given  the fine margin they were operating on in 2006.
Unfortunately the detailed  fact find from 2008 isnt available.  But despite consolidating their 
debt in 2006, Mr and Mrs P had run up significantly more debt by 2008 (and although they 
consolidated in 2008, they had still more debt in 2009). A fact find L&G took in 2009 for 
different advice shows their income  hadnt increased substantially, and in the circumstances 
I dont think theres evidence to show the 2008  consolidation was unsuitable either.
I dont think adding the relatively  small  cost of the will to the mortgage, and paying interest 
on it over the rest of the term, was good  advice. Im pleased  to see L&G has offered to 
refund the interest. And its also offered  to refund the solicitors commission,  together with 
compensation. I think thats fair. 
But I dont think it needs to add to the refund any of the fees charged by the broker. I accept 
that some  other brokers were cheaper, and structured their fees in a different way, to L&G. 
But Im satisfied the fees they would be charged were made clear to Mr and Mrs P, they 
Ref: DRN70383862understood them and agreed  to pay them. And, in the end, they received  the service  they 
paid for. I dont think the fees are unfair  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint, and I dont 
require it to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7038386