K820x#14complaint
In 1996, Miss S took out a personal  reserve account  with Marks & Spencer. Alongside the 
account, Marks & Spencer  also sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Miss S thinks that Marks & Spencer  mis-sold  the policy to her and believes that it should  
refund her all the premiums she paid for it, plus interest.
Although Marks & Spencer sold the policy, Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz),  as the insurer,  has 
taken responsibility  for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Allianz in the rest of 
this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Allianz had mis-sold the PPI policy to Miss S and didnt recommend that it should give 
her any money back. Miss S disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman  to look into her case, 
so it has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do about  Miss Ss case.  Ive looked into everything Miss S and Allianz  have sent us 
or told us and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain  why below. 
Miss S has told us that no one in (Allianz) had mentioned PPI to (her) at the time of 
borrowing the money and that if they had, she would not have taken  it out as her husband 
had a safe, permanent job. 
Miss S bought  this policy over twenty  years ago, and there  isnt much paperwork from the 
time still available. But Allianz has sent us a copy of the type of form which  it says Miss S 
would have filled out to apply for her reserve account. I think  the form shows that Allianz 
offered Miss S a choice  to apply for the account with or without PPI. 
The form had a section  about PPI which was separate  from information about the account 
itself. This section of the form included a brief description of the policy and an indication of its 
cost. The form then asked  customers to tick a box if they wanted PPI. I think  its likely that 
Miss S completed such a form and ticked the box to take PPI before Allianz added it to her 
account. If she hadnt wanted  PPI, she could have left this section of the form blank. I fully 
accept that after such a long time Miss S may not remember  these  details, but I think  its 
unlikely that Allianz  added PPI to her account without her knowledge and consent. 
Both Miss S and Allianz have told us that Allianz  didnt recommend the policy to Miss S or 
advise her to take it. This meant that Allianz  didnt have to check  that the policy  was right for 
Miss S, but it still had to tell her about the policy fairly and clearly  so she could decide  
whether or not she wanted it. 
Miss S has told us that Allianz didnt  tell her anything about the policy.  The application form 
only contained a few details about the cover and I accept its certainly possible that Allianz 
didnt explain things  to Miss S as thoroughly as it should have done. So Ive looked at the 
Ref: DRN70717192main features of the policy and Miss Ss circumstances in 1996 to see if there was anything  
about the policy which may have put her off buying it if Allianz had explained everything 
properly.
The policy had eligibility rules which Miss S met and she seems to have been able to afford 
to pay for it. I havent seen anything to show me that Miss S was affected by the policys  
main exclusions  and limitations. I accept the comments Miss S has made  that her husband 
having a safe and permanent role may have reduced her need for PPI, but as Allianz  didnt 
recommend the policy to her personally,  this would have been  something for her to consider 
at the time. 
So while I cant be sure that Allianz explained  everything about the policy  to Miss S as 
clearly and fairly as it should have done, I havent  seen anything  to make me think  she 
wouldnt have taken  it if Allianz had done  things properly. I dont think  Allianz mis-sold PPI to 
Miss S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint against  Allianz  
Insurance Plc. Im not going to tell it to give her any money back.  
Under the rule of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7071719