K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 2003 with 
a store  card. Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has accepted  responsibility for 
this complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Miss F says FICL mis-sold her the PPI policy  on her store card.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Fs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint  and Ill explain why. 
FICL had to make sure Miss F was given a choice  about taking the policy,  and that she 
agreed to take it. FICL has said the PPI would have been optional and that this was clear  
from the credit agreement Miss F wouldve signed  at the time of sale. But FICL hasn't been  
able to give us a copy of the credit agreement from 2003 or any other supporting  evidence  to 
show they gave  Miss F a choice about  buying  the policy, or that she agreed to buy it. 
So, I can't say FICL did enough  to make clear to Miss F that she had a choice or that she 
consented to taking out the PPI. 
putting things right
FICL should put Miss F in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss F would  have  owed  when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss F would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss F would have owed each month  without PPI  
Miss F paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  
Ref: DRN73227962interest on the extra Miss F paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Miss F wouldve owed FICL something on her account. The interest  rate should 
be 8% a year from then on.
D.FICL should tell Miss F what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7322796