K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) refused to set up payment  plans  for 
his loan and overdraft when he experienced financial  difficulties, which has led to adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file. 
background
Mr A had a loan and current  account  with an overdraft with Halifax.  In January 2018 he 
called Halifax and explained he wasnt able to afford to maintain  his payments for the loan or 
the charges he was paying for his overdraft. Mr A said he planned to open  a bank account 
elsewhere and move his salary payment away  from Halifax.  He wanted to set up a payment 
arrangement to repay what he owed. 
An income and expenditure assessment was completed but showed Mr As outgoings  were  
around £500 a month higher than his income.  As Mr A was earning less than he was 
spending Halifax refused to set up a payment plan. As a result, Mr As loan account and 
overdraft were passed to Halifaxs  collections team. 
Mr A went  on discuss his circumstances  with Halifax several  more  times in the months that 
followed and completed further income  and expenditure assessments.  Mr A requested 
Halifax accept payments of £50 a month  for each of his accounts but it didnt  agree  to set up 
any plans. Mr As final income and expenditure assessment  was completed in August 2018  
and showed his outgoings remained higher than his income. 
As Mr A didnt maintain his loan payments  Halifax passed the account to the recoveries 
team. The loan account was defaulted  which has been recorded on Mr As credit  file. Mr As 
overdraft account  remained with the collections team for several months  but Halifax  has 
since issued a formal  demand and passed  the case to its recoveries team. 
Mr A complained to Halifax  as it hadnt agreed a payment plan to avoid the accounts  
defaulting. But Halifax didnt  uphold Mr As complaints as it didnt find a payment plan 
wouldve been affordable because his outgoings  were higher than his income. Mr A referred  
his complaint to this service but the investigator who looked at it felt Halifax  had dealt with it 
fairly. They didnt  ask Halifax to do anything further  to resolve the complaint. As Mr A didnt 
agree the complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  whether Halifax treated Mr A fairly when it declined  to agree a 
payment plan. Having  done so, Ive not found Halifax acted unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to Mr As call with Halifax in January  2018. He explained he wasnt able to 
afford his loan payments or the overdraft costs  he was incurring each month. This led to an 
income and expenditure assessment which showed  Mr A didnt have enough disposable 
income to afford a payment  plan at that time.  Halifax went  on to complete several more 
income and expenditure checks in the months that followed but it wasnt  possible to agree a 
plan. 
Ref: DRN78272142Its important to note that lenders wont accept a payment plan proposal unless the amount 
offered is affordable. Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, that the options Mr A had at this time 
were very limited  because  the information  he gave  Halifax showed he couldnt afford to 
make payments, even  at a reduced level.  Mr A repeatedly asked Halifax  to accept £50 a 
month for each account but that level of payment wouldnt have been  enough  to avoid the 
accounts being passed to recoveries. 
I say this because  Mr As loan payment was £348  a month so a payment of £50 wouldve left 
a further £298 to pay. Similarly, Mr As overdraft was at over £3,000 when he first discussed 
his options with Halifax and payments of £50 a month wouldnt have been enough to have 
cleared the debt and avoid a default. 
I appreciate that the defaults  may impact Mr As ability to secure  other credit but Halifax  has 
to provide accurate information about its customers to the credit reference agencies.  And in 
this case, as Halifax wasnt able to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A I think  it 
was reasonable  for it to take the step of defaulting his loan and overdraft and report  that to 
the credit  reference  agencies. 
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Im 
satisfied that Halifax  did try to work with Mr A to see whether there was an affordable  
payment arrangement available. But that the information it obtained showed it wasnt  
something it could offer.  I also note that Halifax appears to have stopped  applying  interest to 
Mr As overdraft  after February 2018 which I think shows  it was trying to limit the impact  of 
Mr As financial difficulties  on the size of his overdraft debt. 
Taking everything together, Ive not found  anything to show Halifax  has made a mistake 
here. I appreciate Mr A was suffering financial difficulties which meant he wasnt  able to 
maintain his monthly payments  but lenders dont have to accept all offers made  to them  and 
Im satisfied Halifax acted reasonably by declining Mr As offers of £50 a month for each 
account. As a result, Im not telling Halifax to amend  Mr As credit file or take any further  
action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 11 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7827214