K820x#14Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited is applying a limitation  to future  claims he can 
make under his private medical insurance  policy.
Background
Mr G has BUPA private medical insurance  through his employer. In 2008  and 2009 he 
claimed under his policy for psychiatric  care. In 2018, he made a further claim for psychiatric 
treatment.
Bupa told Mr G he would  no longer be able to make claims  for future mental health 
treatment. This was because the terms of his employers policy say that after having  
treatment for the same or a related  mental  health  condition in three  separate  policy  years, 
the condition would  be considered to be chronic. This meant no further treatment for mental 
health conditions  would  be covered whether  related or not.
Mr G complained. He said he wasnt made  aware  of these terms, which  were  buried within  
the terms and conditions. He thought such an important limitation should be highlighted in 
the policy summary.
Bupa said these terms came into effect in 2012,  and hed been  made  aware of this in the 
covering letter of his renewal  pack  in July 2012. It also said these terms are clearly explained 
in his membership guide,  a copy  of which was sent to him in February  2018.
Mr G referred  his complaint to our service. He said hed been given a new diagnosis of 
Generalised Anxiety  Disorder (GAD)  in 2018.  So, he didnt see how this could be related to 
the treatment he received  in 2008 or 2009.  Mr G didnt think  it was fair for future treatment 
for mental  health  conditions to be excluded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the evidence  Bupa had showed Mr G 
had been treated for anxiety in 2008 and 2009. She said it was reasonable for Bupa to treat 
the 2018 treatment as being for the same or related condition based  on the content of Mr Gs 
psychiatrists report. So, she thought the exclusion had been fairly applied.  The investigator 
also thought Mr G had been made aware  of these terms  in his membership guide.
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He said that placing a restriction on mental health 
treatment was discrimination  under the Equality Act 2010. He also thought  it wasnt  fair for 
Bupa to consider his claims as three  separate events when it clearly believed  his condition  
was due to a single cause  that had been  ongoing  since 2008. Mr G thought  he shouldve 
been warned about the exclusion  when he contacted  Bupa  to make the claim in 2018.  This 
was so he couldve considered withdrawing the claim and preserving his final year of cover. 
Mr G also maintained this limitation shouldve been  highlighted to him as the customer.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr G as he clearly  relied  on his insurance to help him 
manage his anxiety. But I dont think Bupa has applied the exclusion unfairly. Bupa received 
a report from the Consultant Psychiatrist Mr G saw in February 2018. This report said:
Ref: DRN78532442In essence, [Mr G] presents with an acute exacerbation of Recurrent general anxiety 
disorder
Although [Mr G] has suffered from recurrent  symptoms of GAD throughout his life, it 
appears the past ten years have  been particularly difficult
Whilst GAD  appeared  to be a new diagnosis, its clear to me the consultant thought  Mr G 
had suffered with symptoms of this condition throughout his life. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Bupa to link this to the treatment he received in 2008 and 2009. If Mr G 
believes the treatment  he had in 2018  was unrelated to the episodes in 2008 and 2009, he 
should provide  evidence  from his consultant  for Bupa to consider further.
Mr G says if Bupa considers all of the episodes are linked, it should only be treated as one 
claim. But the terms of the policy are clear; if Mr G received  treatment for the same  or 
related mental  health condition in three different policy years, it will be classified as a chronic  
mental health condition. Exclusion 34 says Bupa will not pay for any mental health treatment 
if the member is suffering  from a chronic mental health condition.  So, I think its fair for Bupa 
to decline to pay for any further  mental  health  treatment.
Mr G said he shouldve been  warned that the treatment he needed in 2018  would trigger  this 
exclusion. But I wouldnt have expected  Bupa to make Mr G aware  of this before he 
proceeded with the claim. I think it was fair for it to assume the treatment was necessary and 
that Mr G required Bupa to cover  the cost of it. So, I wouldnt have expected it to explain the 
impact of the claim at this point.
Mr G says that this exclusion is discriminatory under the Equality Act 2010. It isnt for me to 
determine whether  this exclusion breaches the Equality Act, only a court  can decide this. 
And ultimately, an insurer is able to decide what cover it wishes to offer its customers based 
on the risk this poses.  As Bupa has explained, the policy is designed to provide cover  for 
acute illnesses that respond quickly  to treatment, not long-term or chronic conditions. This is 
common across  policies  of this nature. In addition, these are the terms Mr Gs employer 
agreed to when the policy was put in place.
Mr G remains  unhappy that this exclusion wasnt drawn to his attention. But it wouldnt have 
been Bupas responsibility to highlight the exclusion to him. Whilst the policy was taken out 
for Mr Gs benefit, the policyholder is his employer.  So, it wouldve been  his employers 
responsibility to provide  him with this information. Nevertheless, I can see Mr G received a 
membership certificate, which said the membership  guide should  be read for full policy  
details. It referred to benefit note five for mental  health treatment.  And I think  this exclusion 
was clearly detailed  in the membership guide  under note five. Its unfortunate Mr G wasnt 
aware of this exclusion until he had cause to claim in 2018, but I think this information was 
made available to him since at least July 2012.
Ref: DRN78532443My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  28 September 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7853244