K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complained  to us about  the sale of a regular  premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy which they bought in 2000.  Santander  UK Plc, trading at 
the time as Abbey National, is responsible  for the sale. 
Ill refer to Santander  in my decision for consistency.
background
Our adjudicator in this case told Mr and Mrs I that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld,  but 
they disagreed  and asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
case.
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Is main point  of complaint  is that they were made  to feel they had to agree to 
the MPPI  to get their mortgage approved.
Im sure this may now be Mr and Mrs Is genuine  recollection. However, having looked 
carefully over what we still have access to, Im afraid I think  its more likely they bought the 
policy because it was something they wanted  to have at the time.
I say this firstly because I can see they only purchased cover for Mr I and not Mrs I. I think  
this shows its much more likely  they decided to do this because  it reflected their financial 
circumstances. I also note that the cover Mr I opted for was unemployment only, not the 
more common accident, sickness  and unemployment. Again, to me this strongly implies they 
had given substantial  thought to what they wanted  to do. And I dont think the Santander  
adviser would  have successfully portrayed  the policy as compulsory given Mr and Mrs I 
clearly had a wide degree  of choice in setting the policy up.
So I think its much  more  likely they agreed to the cover and Santander properly obtained 
their consent.
It looks like the policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs I so this means Santander was 
under an additional duty to ensure it was suitable for their particular circumstances. Ive 
looked closely at their situation and think Mr I (the person  insured) was eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. 
Their mortgage  was also secured against their home and I think it would have been a 
significant financial commitment for them. The consequences of not being  able to keep up 
payments on it could have  had serious implications. I note Mr I went  on to make a successful 
claim for unemployment on the policy in 2002.  
I also looked at the cost of the MPPI policy, and at around  £20 per month,  I dont think  this 
would have been unaffordable for Mr and Mrs I.
Ref: DRN74492392Overall, I think the cover  was suitable  for them.
I went on to look at whether I thought Santander  had given Mr and Mrs I enough  information  
about the policy. 
I obviously cant say what was verbally  explained  to them at the meeting, but Mr and Mrs I 
were sent a welcome letter about the MPPI as it was being  set up. The cost of the cover,  
who was insured and for how much, were all outlined clearly in my view. 
So I think Mr and Mrs I had what they needed to make an informed decision about what  they 
wanted to do. For these  reasons, I dont  think the MPPI policy  was mis-sold.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Santander UK Plc to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7449239