K820x#14complaint
Ms U complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited, trading as Renault Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
Shes being helped with her complaint by her brother.
background
A car was supplied  to Ms U under a hire purchase  agreement with Renault Finance that she 
signed in July 2014. Her brother contacted the manufacturers UK dealer about an issue  with 
the cars  gears  in July 2018.  It said that there was no manufacturing fault and that the cars  
warranty had expired so it wouldnt pay for the issue to be repaired. Ms U then complained  
to Renault Finance but she wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
Shes also complained  about the way that the agreement was sold to her  but that 
complaint has been dealt  with separately.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He didnt think  that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality or that the issues that developed were present at the 
point of sale. So he said that he wasnt going  to ask Renault Finance to do anything  further  
to resolve her complaint.
Ms U has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says that she 
was provided with a four year warranty  so Renault  Finance  and the manufacturers UK 
dealer are liable for the repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Renault Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The invoice for the car that was 
supplied to Ms U shows that it was a used car that was first registered in March  2014. It was 
supplied to Ms U in July 2014 and the invoice shows that the car had been driven for 11 
miles. So I find that it was reasonable  for Ms U to consider that she was being  supplied with 
a new car and that it would be free from even minor defects.  Satisfactory  quality also covers 
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Ms U had any issues  with the car before her brother 
complained to the manufacturers UK dealer about  the issue with the gears in July 2018.  
That was four years after the car had been  supplied to her and between  July 2014 and June 
2018 the car had been driven for more than 34,000 miles.
If the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms U, I consider it to be 
reasonable to expect  that that any issues with it wouldve been reported  to the dealer or to 
Renault Finance  much  earlier  than July 2018  and before the car had been used to drive 
34,000 miles. So Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms U.
Ref: DRN78875762Ms U was provided with a warranty for the car. But the warranty  was from the manufacturers 
UK dealer  and not from Renault Finance. So any complaint about the warranty would need 
to be made  to the manufacturers UK dealer. I dont consider that Renault Finance has any 
liability to Ms U under the warranty. 
The evidence that I have seen in deciding this complaint shows that the warranty period 
started in March 2014 and that the cars  mechanical  warranty had expired before the 
complaint was made about the cars  gears in July 2018. So I dont  consider  it to be likely  that 
any complaint about the warranty would be successful.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Renault Finance has acted 
incorrectly in connection with this complaint. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to pay for the car to be repaired  or to take any other action in response  to 
Ms Us complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Us complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7887576