K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont  refund the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
background
Mr P is the director of a small business and holds an account  with RBS. In 2019, he 
attempted to purchase a mini-digger hed seen advertised on a well-known social media  
website. 
It was arranged that Mr P would pay by bank transfer. He sent an initial payment of £2,000 
on 4 February 2019. He then sent a further £4,500 to the seller 6 February 2019. This was 
on the understanding that the mini-digger would be delivered to him by lunchtime that day 
However, the mini-digger  wasnt delivered as had been agreed. Mr P tried to contact  the 
seller but had been blocked. Mr P realized  that this was a scam and promptly reported the 
matter to RBS.
RBS says it attempted to recover the funds  Mr P had sent, but these had already been 
removed from the recipient account  before Mr P had realized hed been scammed.  This 
left Mr P significantly  out of pocket.
Mr P complained, but RBS didnt accept it was liable for the money Mr P had lost. It said Mr 
P had authorized the two payments and it hadnt been at fault in following his instructions. 
Mr P then brought  his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into 
things. Our investigator didnt think RBS could reasonably have  done  anything to prevent  the 
scam - she didnt think the payments Mr P had sent were particularly out of the ordinary for 
his account, or so unusual that it should  have raised RBSs  suspicions. So, she didnt think 
RBS could fairly be required to refund Mr P.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He said he didnt regularly pay people  £2,000  and 
£4,500. He also pointed out hed been a customer of RBS for over 20 years. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time.
So with all of this in mind, Ive carefully  assessed the information provided by both parties. 
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusions as those of the investigator  and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Im extremely sorry to hear about  what happened  to Mr P. I can understand entirely why he 
Ref: DRN79958662feels strongly that his money should  be returned to him, and why he does not want to accept 
what our investigator said.
Mr P has been the victim  of a crime and he is out of pocket by £6,500  as a result. That is a 
significant loss. But that loss resulted principally from the actions of a scammer. For me to 
say RBS is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and should 
have acted to prevent  the loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some  other  way.
So I need to first consider what RBS was obliged  to do here.  In broad terms, the starting 
position in law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorizes it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And I must take that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
 The law recognizes that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer.
 Regulated firms like RBS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests  
of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
 identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers  in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  by the 
FCA in recent years  and by the British Bankers  Associations (BBA) February 2016 report  
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
 look to identify  and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something  also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting customers  from 
financial harm as a result of fraud or financial  abuse  Code of Practice,  which a number of 
banks and trade associations were  involved  in the development of); and,
 in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr P when he transferred £2,000  and £4,500  from his account, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Mr P accepts he authorized the transfers  himself.  RBS had an obligation to follow  his 
instructions.
Ref: DRN79958663But as Ive noted above, there are some  situations  in which  it should  reasonably  have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding  these transactions. I consider that as a matter 
of good practice  RBS shouldve been  on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
So, Ive first thought  about whether the transfers made by Mr P were significantly out of 
character or unusual. To decide this, Ive reviewed the typical  pattern of Mr Ps account 
usage, by reviewing his account history in the twelve months leading up to the scam.
This is often  a finely balanced  matter, and RBS has a difficult balance to strike in how it 
configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a 
higher than usual  risk of fraud. If it were to intervene  too often, that would impede a 
customers legitimate usage of their account.
On balance, I cant fairly say that either  transaction  was so unusual  or suspicious in 
comparison to Mr Ps normal account activity that it ought to have alerted RBS that Mr P was 
at risk of financial harm.
Mr P had used his account to make several  other  (legitimate) withdrawals in the twelve 
months before the scam. This included a number of other payments in the £1,000  to £5,000  
range, by a variety  of methods including cheques, card payments, standing order  payments, 
and Faster Payments  transfers. In that context the scam payments of £2,000 and £4,500  
simply dont look particularly unusual  or out of character to me  these looked much like his 
typical account usage. 
I agree  with Mr P that he doesnt regularly make payments like this  but for me to think RBS 
ought to have had concerns about  the payments, they would have to be significantly unusual 
for his account  and I dont find these two payments on the face of it were so significantly 
different to other  payments hed made.
As a result, I dont think RBS was wrong to allow Mr P to make these transactions  without 
questioning him about them. There wasnt enough here for me to think RBS should  have  
suspected Mr P might be about to fall victim  to a fraud.
Ive thought also about the actions RBS took after Mr P made it aware  of what had 
happened. RBS has provided  records showing it contacted the bank  that received the 
payments very shortly after Mr P reported the scam. This bank told RBS that by the time the 
scam was reported no funds remained  to return to Mr P. This is unsurprising  as fraudsters 
will often  move money on quickly.  I dont find RBS is liable here.
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for Mr P, and that he has lost out through being the victim of a 
crime. But his losses are due to the actions  of the scammer and I cant fairly  say that RBS is 
responsible for what happened. It follows that I cant fairly say RBS is liable to reimburse  him 
with the money  he unfortunately  lost to the fraudster.
Ref: DRN79958664my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7995866