K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that it was irresponsible of Barclays Bank UK PLC to approve  his loan 
because he was a vulnerable pensioner with no determinable income.  To settle matters  hed 
like his loan written off.
background
In late January 2016 Barclays  agreed a loan of £7,600 to Mr H. The loan was to be repaid by 
60 monthly repayments of £142.50  and at a fixed  interest rate of 4.793%  per annum.
Mr H says it was irresponsible of Barclays to lend to him because  at the time he applied he 
was in his 70s and he had no determinable  income. Since taking out the loan hes had 
problems with his health, hes now in sheltered  housing and hes currently claiming benefits 
to meet his living costs. He also complains  that Barclays  held an incorrect address for him.
Barclays didnt accept  itd been irresponsible to approve his loan. And with regard to the 
incorrect address it said Mr H had a responsibility to ensure his address was kept up to date. 
However, it accepted  that the incorrect address should have been picked up when the loan 
was made  so it paid £75 compensation. Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr H asked  our 
service to look into things.
Our investigator didnt  think that Barclays had acted irresponsibly in making the loan. She 
thought that older age and receipt  of a state pension wouldnt necessarily prevent a loan 
from being approved   as long as there was sufficient information to show Mr H could meet 
his repayments   which hed done  for a number of years. So she hadnt seen anything  to 
suggest the loan was unaffordable or inappropriately agreed.  And she didnt think  Barclays 
could have anticipated at the time of making the loan that Mr H would suffer  from ill-health.
Mr H disagrees  with the investigators view. He says Barclays  offered him a loan without 
checking anything  and they took advantage of him as a vulnerable person without doing due 
diligence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Hs ill-health  and the financial  situation  he now finds  himself in  I 
realise things must be difficult. But I think Barclays treated him fairly so Ill explain why.
From the information provided I can see that Mr H had an initial  discussion with Barclays  
about applying  for a loan in mid January  2016. About two weeks later a loan was agreed. 
Barclays provided pre-contract information to Mr H. This gave information about  the key 
terms of the loan. So Im satisfied that Barclays provided him with the information he 
needed to make an informed decision about whether or not to proceed  with the loan.
Lenders are required to take proportionate steps  to ensure consumers will be able to repay 
what theyre borrowing  in a sustainable way, without it adversely impacting on their financial 
situation. Theres no prescribed  list of checks but they need be proportionate,  based on 
things such as how much is being borrowed, the total amount to be repaid and the length  of 
the loan.
Ref: DRN79644912Irresponsible lending,  on the other  hand, isnt just about whether a consumer can afford to 
repay the money borrowed  but whether theres another reason a consumer shouldnt have 
been given the loan.
I can see why Mr H might think Barclays gave him the loan without doing any due diligence. 
But Ive looked  at the checks Barclays did behind the scenes and Im satisfied  that it did 
sufficient checks to assess  the affordability of the loan.
Mr H provided  details  of his income and expenditure to Barclays at the time he applied for 
the loan. Barclays  has told us that rather than base its decision to lend only on the 
information Mr H had provided it based  its decision on a lower  disposable  income figure. 
And based on that lower figure  it came to the conclusion that the loan was affordable.
Barclays also used its own confidential risk assessment processes to generate  lending  
limits. These processes use information  from credit  reference agencies. And because Mr H 
was an existing customer, Barclays was able to take into account information about  his 
account and the way hed managed it.
Ive looked at Mr Hs current account  statements at the time he applied  for his loan. These 
show regular credits  into his account from the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP)  and 
a consistent credit balance.
Based on the above Im satisfied Barclays did sufficient checks  to assess  that the loan was 
affordable. And Im satisfied that the loan was affordable at the time it was made because 
Mr H made  repayments on time for more than two years after the loan was made.
And neither do I think it was irresponsible of Barclays to lend to Mr H due to his age or 
because he was in receipt of pension payments. Neither of these would automatically 
prevent Barclays from approving an unsecured  loan so long as it undertook  proportionate  
checks to ensure the borrowing was affordable  which Im satisfied was the case here. Ive 
seen nothing to persuade  me that Mr H was a vulnerable customer  purely  on the basis  of his 
age. Ive seen  nothing to suggest that he had any particular problems, for example, that he 
lacked mental capacity.
Since making the loan Mr H has had health  problems and hes found it difficult to make his 
loan repayments  from August  2018  onwards. Im sympathetic  to the position Mr H now finds  
himself in and I appreciate things cant be easy for him or his family. But Im satisfied that 
his change of circumstances happened  two years after Barclays approved his loan. And 
Barclays had no way of knowing  at the time it made the loan how Mr Hs personal  
circumstances might change.
Once Barclays became  aware of his problems  it acted  positively  and sympathetically  as Id 
expect it to do because  it reduced the rate of interest on his loan to zero per cent,  it agreed 
that no payments  needed to made for a number of months and it gave  details of 
organisations that would  be able to provide  him with free, independent debt advice.
With regard to Mr Hs address being recorded  incorrectly Barclays  apologised and paid £75 
compensation which I consider to be fair in the circumstances.
It follows that I consider  Mr H has been  treated  fairly by Barclays and I wont  be asking it do 
anything further.
Ref: DRN79644913my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7964491