K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that it was irresponsible of AvantCredit of UK, LLC to make  two loans 
available to her.
To settle maters shed like all interest  paid to date and future interest refunded.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I wasnt proposing to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final decision.
AvantCredit indicated  that it accepts my provisional  decision. However,  Mrs G hasnt 
provided any further comments for my consideration.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AvantCredit accepts  my provisional  decision and as Mrs G hasnt provided any further 
comments for my consideration I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79810422Copy extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs G complains that it was irresponsible of AvantCredit of UK, LLC to make  two 
loans available  to her.
To settle maters shed like all interest  paid to date and future interest refunded.
background
Mrs G took out two loans  with AvantCredit. The first loan for £4,750 was taken out in 
November 2017.  This was repaid  in April 2018.  The second loan, for £5,510  was taken out 
in July 2018. Mrs G says it was irresponsible of AvantCredit to lend to her because she 
couldnt afford the repayments and it didnt  do any formal checks.
Mrs G complained to AvantCredit about  the second  loan but it didnt uphold  her complaint. 
In its final response it said Mrs G had provided details of her net income and it had 
assessed her monthly outgoings to ensure  the loan was affordable. It also took into account 
that Mrs G was consolidating two existing credit  card debts - which  had a higher  rate of 
interest than the loan  and this meant her monthly  outgoings would be lower after taking 
out the loan. It also did a credit check to make sure shed paid off unsecured  debts in the 
past with no outstanding defaults.
Unhappy with AvantCredits response, Mrs G referred her complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. They 
thought Mrs Gs overall expenditure was within her income amount, shed kept up to 
date with her repayments and she hadnt  informed AvantCredit she was in financial 
difficulties.
Mrs G disagrees  with the adjudicators view. She doesnt think AvantCredit fully looked at her 
commitments at the time she applied for her loans. She told us that in October 2017, just 
before she applied for her first loan, she had an overdraft, five loans, 6 credit  cards,  two 
catalogue accounts and a mortgage  and she also had a phone bill and food and petrol 
totalling £2,325 per month. She says her October 2017 wage slip shows her net salary was 
£2170.75 so the loan wasnt  affordable  to her and shed  like to understand how AvantCredit  
calculated her monthly expenditure.
AvantCredit agreed to our service looking into Mrs Gs concerns  about the loan she took 
out in 2017. In response our adjudicator explained  that although Mrs G provided details of 
her expenditure to our service, these werent  what she had declared on her application to 
AvantCredit at the time.
The adjudicator noted that Mrs G hadnt  defaulted on her payments to AvantCredit  and this 
showed she was able to make her loan repayments. Our adjudicator  didnt think 
AvantCredit should be held accountable for Mrs Gs financial difficulties.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79810423Unaffordable lending is when a consumer cant afford to make payments at the time the 
new lending  was taken  out. AvantCredit made a commercial decision to lend to Mrs G 
based on its own lending  criteria. Its generally  not the role of our service to interfere with 
that commercial judgement. But before agreeing to lend, AvantCredit needed to make  
proportionate checks to assess  Mrs Gs ability to repay each loan in a sustainable way 
taking into account  matters such as the amount of the loan, her credit history and financial 
position at the time.
Theres no prescriptive list of what checks lenders must make  when assessing whether 
a loan is affordable.
Irresponsible lending  isnt just about whether or not a consumer was able to repay  the 
credit at the time it was given  its whether theres another  reason they shouldnt  have  had 
the credit   and that the lender should have been aware of that reason at that time. This will 
depend on the borrowers personal circumstances but it could be irresponsible, for 
example, to lend money  to someone who is in a debt spiral  because theyre clearly 
borrowing money to repay other loans in an unsustainable way.
Mrs G thinks AvantCredit failed to make any checks before making  the loans available to 
her but I dont  agree.  I realise it might have  seemed  this was the case  to Mrs G but I can 
see that behind the scenes AvantCredit obtained details of her income and expenditure and 
its also provided copies  of the credit search  and affordability assessment it made  at the 
time of each  loan.
Ive looked at the checks AvantCredit  made at the time and I think the checks  were 
proportionate given the size of the loans, the monthly repayments  and the information  Mrs 
G provided. I can see that following on from the adjudicators view, Mrs G has explained the 
reasons why she considers the loans  were unaffordable so Ill explain below and in a little 
more detail why Ive reached this conclusion.
2017 loan
Ive seen a copy  of the online application Mrs G completed in 2017. She declared her net 
monthly income as £3,162. Mrs G told us that her total financial commitments in 2017 
were approximately £2,325.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit search AvantCredit  obtained at the time. This gave a 
summary of Mrs Gs total financial commitments broken down between her mortgage, 
loans and revolving  credit. The amount detailed  is broadly similar to the amount of financial 
commitments Mrs G told us she had at the time.
Based on the credit  search it did, I think  its reasonable to assume AvantCredit was aware 
of the extent of her total financial commitments.  But even so, I dont think AvantCredit acted 
unfairly in lending to her. I say this because Mrs G has told us that her payslip for October 
2017 showed her net salary as £2170. However,  when  she completed her application  form 
this wasnt the figure she declared.  and instead  she declared her net income as £3,162 - 
and this was the figure that AvantCredit  used as the basis for the affordability  assessment it 
completed, and which showed the loan was affordable.
I appreciate Mrs G says her payslip for October 2017 showed  her net salary was only 
£2,170 and shes now told us that her outgoings were approximately £2,325.  Ive thought  
Ref: DRN79810424about whether  AvantCredit should have undertaken  any additional checks  or whether it 
ought to have realised that the information  provided was incorrect but, on balance, I dont 
think it needed to because for the reasons I explain below I dont think there was anything  to 
alert it to there being a problem based on the information Mrs G declared at the time.
The credit search doesnt show  that Mrs G has any defaults or County  Court  Judgments.  It 
shows she had some accounts with early  arrears and it appears  she was only making 
small repayments on some accounts.  But I cant fairly say the credit  search  showed  
anything that should have  necessarily  caused  AvantCredit additional  concerns  based on 
the information Mrs G provided.
AvantCredit also provided a copy of the affordability assessment it carried out at the time.  
The affordability assessment was completed  using the £3,162 net income Mrs G declared. 
Its less clear whether the expenses it took into account were those declared by Mrs G or 
the expenses  which were summarised  in the credit  search. Either way, Im satisfied  the 
expenditure was within  the income  shed  declared.
The affordability report shows there were signs her cards were fully utilised but I can see it 
also compared her total debt to her net monthly  income and this was less than 40% - so 
this supports that she had disposable income  remaining after payment of her financial 
commitments based on the information Mrs G declared.
For the reasons  Ive explained above and based  on the information Ive seen I dont  think  
it would  have been proportionate for AvantCredit to ask Mrs G to verify the information 
shed already provided. So I think it was reasonable for AvantCredit  to rely in good  faith 
on the income details  provided by Mrs G.
Ive also looked  at Mrs Gs payment history. This shows she made  the required contractual  
payments on her loan for five months  before  repaying the loan in full in April 2018  so I 
dont agree the loan was unaffordable.
I realise Mrs G says she was in a difficult financial position at the time but I havent seen 
anything to suggest  she informed AvantCredit  of her financial difficulties at the time so it 
wouldnt have been aware of this. So far as it was concerned, her payment record  
indicated that the loan was affordable.
2018 loan
The application form provided by AvantCredit shows that Mrs G declared  her net monthly  
income as £2,600. She also provided details of her monthly expenses. AvanCredit told us it 
verified her income and Ive seen a copy of the payslip  Mrs G provided. Ive also seen a copy 
of the affordability  report  it prepared at the time and the credit search it obtained.
After taking into account the above, AvantCredit  calculated that Mrs G had disposable 
income of £348.37  and it made the decision that the loan was affordable. AvantCredit told 
us it took into consideration that Mrs G was consolidating  two credit cards  which  had a 
higher rate of interest than her proposed loan with AvantCreidt and this would result  in lower 
monthly outgoings.
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that AvantCredit did sufficient checks  to 
ensure the loan was affordable. I also note that AvantCredit didnt automatically approve 
her loan. Ive been provided with a call in which AvantCredit wanted to understand why Mrs 
Ref: DRN79810425Gs credit  balance had increased before it made the decision to lend.  Mrs G explained that 
this was because  shed consolidated her loans.
The 2018  credit report again doesnt show any defaults. It still showed that Mrs G had 
number of accounts with balances where only small payments  were  being made and a few 
instances of historic arrears. But by this time her balance  to limit ratio had decreased  and 
by obtaining the AvantCredit loan she was consolidating debts with a higher rate of interest 
for a lower  rate of interest under the loan.
I realise that Mrs G has told us that she found  her way out of a difficult  financial situation 
with the help of a family member and I realise things were difficult  for her. However,  Im 
satisfied that AvantCredit carried out sufficient checks to ensure the borrowing was 
affordable and it follows that I think it treated  her fairly.
my provisional decision
Unless anything changes  my mind, my provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7981042