K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have removed money from his account and 
returned it to the sender. 
background
Mr H received two large payments into his account. The person (Mr A) who sent the funds 
into Mr Hs account complained to their bank (bank  B). Mr A said the money wasnt intended  
for Mr H. Mr A said theyd been  scammed into sending the money to Mr Hs account number 
and sort code. Bank B contacted HSBC and said Mr H wasnt  entitled  to the money.  
HSBC froze  Mr Hs account. Mr H was unhappy  that HSBC  froze  his account and he raised 
a complaint with our service. This complaint  was dealt with by another ombudsman  here at 
the service. The ombudsman issued a final decision on that case. The ombudsman  decided 
that under  the circumstances HSBC were  entitled  to review and freeze the funds. 
Since that decision was issued  HSBC  have made a decision to return the funds to bank B.  
HSBC have said Mr H didnt provide sufficient evidence to show  that he was entitled to the 
funds. And as such they decided to return the funds to the sender. 
Mr H has explained the money in the account is his. In summary,  Mr H has explained that he 
was owed money from an investment and he believes the funds which  came into the 
account are his. 
Unhappy with HSBCs actions Mr H complained to them, Mr H referred  this complaint to our 
service as he didnt feel HSBC were treating him fairly.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Hs complaint. He concluded that there wasnt any new 
evidence to consider  and without Mr H providing  further evidence,  HSBC hadnt made an 
error by sending the money back to Mr A.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator and Ill explain why. 
I do believe that Mr H invested a large sum of money  and was expecting to get some  money  
returned to him. What  I need to decide is if Mr H was entitled to the funds which were paid 
into his account  by bank Bs customer.  
Based on all the information Im not satisfied  that Mr H was entitled to the funds which were 
paid into his account by Mr A. Bank  B has provided evidence and information to HSBC 
which explains their customer was a victim of a scam. 
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly  that HSBC  shouldnt have returned the funds to bank B. 
But it wouldnt be right for HSBC to hold onto the funds when one party  is able to evidence  
that they are entitled to the money and were tricked into making the payment to Mr Hs 
account. Mr H hasnt  been able to provide sufficient evidence  to show that he was entitled to 
money paid into his account.  
Ref: DRN70188612I appreciate the difficult circumstances  that Mr H is now in. Mr H feels very strongly that Mr A 
has tricked their bank and HSBC into believing they were a victim of a scam. And he feels  
the money does  rightfully belong to him. But the evidence doesnt suggest this is the case. 
Because of this, HSBC were entitled to return the money  to bank B. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  against  HSBC UK Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7018861