K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the life cover  plan he was sold by Phoenix Wealth  Service Limited 
(trading as Sunlife)
background
In 2010 Mr D took out life cover with Sunlife over the telephone. He says the adviser  didnt 
explain that he may end up paying more in premiums than the cash  sum due on death. And 
that the TV advertisements at the time didnt make it clear  that hed have to continue paying 
premiums until he died  even if this meant hed pay more than the cash sum value. 
Mr D says if he had known this then he would have sought alternative cover  elsewhere. 
On realising that hed paid premiums  worth more than the sum insured, Mr D complained to 
Sunlife. He said he wanted his premiums returned  to him and the policy  cancelled.  
Sunlife didnt uphold the complaint.  They  felt the terms of the plan had been made clear to 
Mr D when he took it out. Mr D was unhappy  with this so brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought  the 
policy documentation  Mr D had been  provided with was clear and that it explained  Mr D may 
pay more in premiums than the sum insured. 
Mr D disagreed so the case has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunlife have said they no longer have  a copy of the call where Mr D took out the policy.  This 
isnt unusual and I dont think its unreasonable, given that a number  of years have passed. 
Because of this, I have to make  my decision based on what  I think  is most  likely, given the 
information available.
I understand Mr D says the adviser  didnt say a policyholder may end up paying  more in 
premiums than the sum insured.  Ive been provided with an extract  of the call script advisers 
used at the time, and can see that it expects  them to explain this to customers. On that 
basis, I think its likely the adviser  Mr D spoke to would have mentioned this.
But even if they hadnt, I dont think this means the policy was mis-sold to Mr D. I say this 
because Mr D bought  the policy on a non-advised  basis and I think  he was provided  with 
clear and thorough  policy documentation following  the call. 
Page two of the policys terms and conditions clearly  outline that it is sold on a non-advised 
basis. They  say The information you have been  provided with does not contain advice 
regarding whether the Guaranteed Over  50 plan is suitable for you. The decision is yours 
and therefore  its very important that you: 1. Read and understand these Terms  and 
Conditions. 
Ref: DRN70970052Because this was a non-advised sale, Sunlife would not have considered  Mr Ds personal 
circumstances or provided  him with advice as to whether to take out the policy or not. And as 
they didnt recommend the policy to him, Sunlife didnt  have  to ensure it was right for him. 
But they did need to make sure they gave  Mr D clear information.
Mr D states that he didnt review the documents as he thought the call was final  but as 
Sunlife didnt provide advice, it was up to him to ensure he was happy with the product. And 
theres a general  expectation that a customer will check over policy documents.  This is one 
of the reasons cancellation periods are offered  such  as the 30 day cancellation period 
Sunlife offered for this policy.   
Ive seen a copy  of the documents  Mr D was provided with once he took out the policy.  The 
schedule states  Premiums: £25.00payable every  month for life. The key policy  details 
schedule states  premiums payable  until death.  And under What are the exclusions and 
limitations of the Plan?  the policy terms and conditions state Depending on how long you 
live, the total premiums  paid may be greater  than the cash sum payable on death. 
Taking all this into account, I think the terms of the policy are clear  and not misleading. If the 
Sunlife adviser  didnt  explain  it over the phone, I think its made clear in the documentation 
that premiums were payable for life, regardless of the sum payable on death. Sunlife have 
said this information  was also available in the enquirer pack  which they believe Mr D 
received before he called  them about  the policy. 
Mr D has commented that the Sunlife TV marketing campaign at the time was also 
misleading. To be clear, the Financial Ombudsman Service neither regulates the advertising 
industry nor deals with complaints specifically about  advertising.  
However, as part of Mr Ds complaint, Ive considered the TV advertisements  from the time 
he took out his policy   in relation  to how he feels they misled  him at the time. Mr D says the 
advertisements didnt  mention that premiums would continue until death  and that they should 
have done so, as this is important. 
Having reviewed screenshots of three  advertisements televised around the time Mr D took 
out the policy, I can see each one has a disclaimer visible which  reads Premiums are 
payable for life so you could  pay in more than is paid out and if you stop paying you wont  
get anything back. So I think this was made clear in the advertisements  as well as in Mr Ds 
policy documentation. 
Mr D has requested that his policy is cancelled and feels he should be refunded the 
premiums hes paid to date. Sunlife say Mr D wont receive a refund if he cancels the policy. 
I dont think this is unreasonable.  The policy schedule says This policy has no cash-in  value 
at any time. Page one of the policy summary  says If you stop paying your premiums for 
any reason, your Policy  would be cancelled and you would not get any money back.  Also 
on the same  page,  under  cancellation  rights, it states the plan has no cash-in value at any 
time, so you would not get anything back.
On this basis, I think the policy documentation  is clear on this point  and I dont think Sunlife 
have acted unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN70970053I appreciate Mr D feels strongly about  this complaint. And I can understand his frustrations 
that Sunlife now sell a plan where  payments are capped.  But Im not able to ask them to 
convert Mr Ds plan over to a new one. The products  a business chooses to sell are in its 
own commercial discretion. Mr D bought the plan he did in 2010   I cant ask Sunlife to 
change what he bought at that time.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097005