K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the service hes received from London  General Insurance  Company 
Limited (LGI). 
Where I refer to LGI, this includes their agents.  
background
On 31 October 2018 Mr S purchased an electrical  item from a retailer and at the same time 
took out an insurance policy providing cover for accidental damage.  The policy  is provided  
by LGI. 
Mr S was expecting to receive  the policy documents and literature soon after the purchase. 
When this didnt happen he contacted LGI and asked that the documents were posted to 
him. Mr S says he was told on three separate occasions that they would be sent to him. 
When he still hadnt received them by 12 January 2019, Mr S complained. He feels  his time 
has been wasted  and would like to be compensated for the inconvenience  hes been 
caused. 
On 24 January 2019, whilst the complaint was being investigated, LGI sent out an apology 
letter to many of their customers who, like Mr S, hadnt received policy documents. The letter  
apologised for the delay  and explained  that the documents  would be sent shortly. It also 
highlighted that the period relating to statutory cancellation rights only starts upon receipt of 
the documents.  
On 6 February 2019 LGI responded to the complaint. They again apologised and explained 
that the issue had now been  resolved. They  explained that the documentation would be with 
Mr S shortly.  
Being unhappy with this response Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  He feels  he has 
been lied to and says he never received the apology letter.  One of our investigators didnt 
think LGI needed  to do more. He explained that in the circumstances of this complaint, he 
felt a sincere apology  was fair. 
Mr S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I understand Mr S is likely to be disappointed 
by this, so let me explain why. 
In the circumstances of this complaint  LGI have accepted the service  theyve provided fell 
below their usual  standards.  So what remains to be decided is what should be done to put 
things right. Mr S says he feels LGI have acted dishonestly, wasted his time and that he is 
due compensation.  LGI say theyve apologised and explained why there was a delay, which  
they consider  fair. 
Ref: DRN75154152Fortunately Mr S hasnt had to make a claim under his policy. But Im satisfied that LGI 
wouldve considered  a claim under the policy if this had been necessary. LGIs apology  letter  
also explained that the time period in terms of cancellation rights only starts  when the 
documents are received.  So I dont think Mr S has been disadvantaged in terms of either  his 
cancellation rights  or his ability  to make a claim.
Mr S says he didnt receive  the apology letter. But I can see that it was sent and correctly  
addressed. So whilst  it is unfortunate it wasnt  received, I cant fairly  blame  LGI for this.  
I accept this has been a frustrating experience for Mr S. And I appreciate  having a copy of 
the relevant documentation was important to him. But it isnt the case  that every time there is 
some poor service,  that compensation is due. And having taken everything into 
consideration, I think the apology LGI offered is a fair resolution to this complaint. Im not 
persuaded the impact of LGIs actions,  in the circumstances of this complaint, is sufficient for 
me to direct that compensation needs to be paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7515415