K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Stagemount Limited,  trading  as Quid  Market, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Mr R took five instalment  loans with Quid Market between April 2017 and August 2018. Loan 
one was repayable in four, monthly  repayments. Loan two, three and five were  repayable  in 
25 or 26, weekly repayments. Loan  four was repayable in 13, weekly repayments. Mr R 
repaid loans one to four but didnt repay loan five. A summary of Mr Rs lending with 
Quid Market is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
11 April 2017 350 3 August 2017
24 August 2017 400 8 February 2018
312 February 2018 550 22 February 2018
410 March 2018 350 14 June 2018
523 August 2018 500
Mr R says that Quid Market shouldnt have lent to him as he couldnt afford to repay the 
loans and they made his position worse.  He wants a refund  of interest and charges,  with 
interest.  
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Quid Market offered him a refund of interest  and charges, 
with interest, in relation to loan five. Mr R pursued his complaint.  
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Rs complaint. She said that Quid  Market  shouldnt 
have given Mr R loans  three, four and five. The adjudicator set out what Quid Market should  
do to put matters right. 
Quid Market didnt agree with the adjudicator in relation to loans three and four. It said, in 
summary:
The adjudicator  hadnt taken into account that these were instalment loans. 
The relevant  point is whether Mr R could make the payments from his normal 
income.
Its irrelevant that loan three was for more  than the previous loans. 
Its assessment of Mr Rs application was made  based on information available  to it at 
the time  it wasnt apparent that Mr R was borrowing from other lenders. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN71804432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.  In response to Quid  Markets point, I 
have, of course, taken  into account  that these  were instalment loans. 
Ref: DRN71804433I dont think that Quid  Market was wrong to give Mr R loans  one and two. Given  the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for
Quid Market to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr R provided or the information 
Quid Market shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate for it to 
start verifying what Mr R said about his finances  at that stage.  
Before loan three, I think Quid Market shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture 
of Mr Rs financial situation.  Thats because this was the third instalment loan Mr R had 
taken out with Quid Market, it was repayable  over broadly six months and it was for a 
significantly larger amount  that Mr R had previously borrowed. I dont agree with
Quid Market that the fact loan three  was for more  than Mr R had previously  borrowed  is 
irrelevant. I think it was one of a number of factors that should have led Quid  Market to do 
more before deciding whether to lend to Mr R.
I think proportionate checks before loan three  wouldve meant that Quid  Market took steps to 
verify the information  Mr R provided about  his financial  situation. If it had done so, I think its 
likely it would have seen,  as I have, that Mr R had three other outstanding short-term loans 
at the time he asked  for loan three, one of which was in arrears. Mr R also had three other 
high cost loans.  I dont think that it was sufficient for Quid Market  to simply rely on what Mr R 
said and the results of its credit checks at this stage. Proportionate checks  would likely have 
shown that Mr Rs indebtedness was considerably more than Quid  Markets  insufficient 
enquiries revealed.  
I think by loan three, proportionate  checks would have shown that Mr R was having 
problems managing his money.  So, Quid Market ought to have realised  that it was unlikely 
that Mr R wouldve been able to repay loan three  and any subsequent loans  in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quid Markets lending  history with Mr R, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Quid Market  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful and should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  I dont think that point was reached in this case  but Im 
upholding Mr Rs complaint about loans three to five in any event, for the reasons set out 
above and Quid  Market should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quid  Market  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans three, four and five and write 
off any outstanding interest and charges on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loan five 
and pay Mr R the balance, if any. If there remains an outstanding balance  owed  
to Quid  Market  in relation to loan five, it should agree an affordable  repayment  
plan with Mr R;
remove any negative information  about loans three and four from Mr Rs credit 
file. Any negative information about loan five should be removed once the 
capital due under that loan has been  repaid. 
Ref: DRN71804434 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid 
Market must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint  in part. Stagemount Limited, 
trading as Quid Market,  should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7180443