K822xcomplaint
E, a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked  its bank account, and this 
led to a loss of business and to inconvenience.
background 
E, had an account  with Lloyds for a number of years  but had not used  it since  2013. In
February 2019 Lloyds  wrote to E to say that the account was dormant  and would be closed.
E contacted Lloyds  about this and thought  that things had been  sorted  out. But when  it came  
to use the account  on 26 March 2019  it found that it was still blocked. Lloyds needed more 
information about its business. It was not unblocked  until 25 April 2019 and E says that as a 
result it could not make a business deal which meant it lost over £20,000 and its reputation
was damaged. E has been paying service charges for an account  it couldnt use.
Lloyds offered E £500 in compensation for the service issues  and increased  this to £650  to
reflect that it had also not ordered  a new cheque book and debit card for the company.
Our investigator recommended that the total award be increased  to £1,000. Lloyds had 
blocked the account in July 2018  as there  was outstanding information needed as part of a
Know Your Customer (KYC)  exercise.  This wasnt dealt with in February  2019  when the 
director of E contacted  Lloyds. E was asked for the information in March 2019 and there 
were a number of follow up questions and the director  was out of the country.  The account 
was reactivated.  She said that she wouldnt be in a position to make  an award for 
consequential loss only a direct financial loss which she didnt see Lloyds had caused. What 
happened was not foreseeable. But the service provided was poor and E had needed to 
contact Lloyds on a number of occasions. This is why the compensation was increased. She 
said E would  need to make a separate complaint about the service  charges.
E did not agree. The director had provided  emails shed sent to the business manager that 
had been unanswered  and details of an online chat about  the transaction with a party  
showing why it had been terminated. She did not think  that the severity of the losses  had 
been taken into account and said that Lloyds had manipulated the situation.
Lloyds agreed  to pay £1,000 and it provided  a copy of the template letter  it sent to E about 
the KYC requirements
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 February  2020  setting out that I agreed with the 
recommended compensation but that I wanted  to address the points that had been raised in 
detail. And to allow for any comments about that. I set out below what I said.
I wanted first to set out some of the key dates  and events in summary  here as I understood
them:
- 2013 - the last year that the current account  was used for a transaction before 2019.
- April 2016  E was contacted about the then dormancy  of the account and it asked
that the account is maintained.
- 11 July 2018 - Lloyds  said that it had attempted  to contact E about its KYC
requirements and that as it has not been  able to the account is blocked.
- 14 February 2019 - Lloyds writes to E to say that as the account  remains  dormant it
will be closed  in two months.
Ref: DRN72257142- 19 February 2019- the director  of E says she tries to make  a test payment on the
account and cannot.
- 20 February 2019- the director  speaks to Lloyds and its notes show that it carried  out
a KYC discussion with her about E.
- 20 March 2019 - the name of E is changed  and a new director  (who lives abroad)
added. The existing director tries to make a payment using Es account but is unable
to. Over that weekend  E identifies the business opportunity.
- 25 and 26 March 2019-  the director visits branches  to change the company details
and is eventually told that this cannot be done as the account is still blocked.
- 26 March 2019 a complaint is made and the director posts documents  to Lloyds
(unfortunately to the wrong address).
- 29 March 2019  the director has a call with the business manager who asks a
number of questions  about the business of E and the overseas director.
- 29 March 2019  the director goes back to branch as she is concerned and asks for
alternative solutions. A member of staff suggests she receive the money to her
personal account and that it would be noted so it would not be questioned. The
director decides not to do this as she is concerned  about  the impact  on the credibility
of her business.
- 1 April 2019 - the director  of E goes abroad  having  been unable to resolve  things.
She finds out the information required about  the other director  and arranges for this
to be notarised and sent.
- 9 April 2019 - having heard nothing  she asks if it would be better to open  a new
account.
- 10 April 2019- further information is requested by Lloyds and there is a query about
the notary used. An update is sent by 12 April 2019.
- 17 April 2019  having  heard nothing the director asks if it is better to remove the
new director from the account and continue with her and is told this would mean
removing him as a director  at Companies House.
- 24 April 2019 - documents submitted using a different  notary. But the transaction  falls
through.
- 25 April 2019- a test credit is made  to Es account which is successful. Lloyds  offers
to pay E £500 in compensation  for the service issues  and says it will write  a letter.
- Through  8 May 2019   the director chases this letter  and then the cheque book and 
debit card.
my assessment
Lloyds like all financial businesses must  comply  with regulatory and legal requirements. This
was the reason for the KYC exercise it was carrying out. And this service is not the regulator
and does not have a role in saying what processes it should follow. I was satisfied it
needed information about Es business and that when it did not receive  this it was entitled to
block the account in line with its terms and conditions.
Es account was also not being  used  and Lloyds had a process to review  dormant accounts
and to decide to close them. Id set out above  in some detail what happened after it wrote
to E about this in February 2019.  Lloyds then went through at least some of its questions
about E but did not follow this up. In the complaint letter E says it understood that this could
take up to 20 days. I hadnt seen anything to confirm  that, but Lloyds  accepts that it did not
follow this up at all.
Things became  more  complicated in March  2019.  E decided to start using  the account again
for what seemed  to be a new type of business. It changed its name  and appointed a new
Ref: DRN72257143director. All of these things were  relevant  to KYC. Lloyds wanted to understand the nature of
the business and verify  the new director-  which was more difficult  as he was based abroad.
And as the account was still blocked  no changes could  be made. Meanwhile E identified  its
first client   it was basically acting as an intermediary  and aimed to export  what it had bought
and make a margin.
I could see from the online chat provided that E had told the party about the issue  with the
bank account  in April 2019. And there  was a degree  of patience allowed. But this ran out
before the account was operational. E also says that this has damaged its reputation  and
that it cannot now arrange such deals  in advance, and this has affected its business model.
financial loss
E wants to be compensated for the loss from this transaction and the impact  on its
reputation. I said I was not going  to be making any award for that for the following reasons:
- The account was blocked  and dormant for a considerable period. E had an
opportunity to address the KYC requirements  after July 2018  as it attempted with the
dormancy.
- E had changed  its name  and the nature of its business and appointed a new director
and this appeared to happen  close to the time it wanted to start trading again.
- There  was no guarantee about  how long the KYC exercise would take and Lloyds
asked for clarification and additional information. I could not see that it agreed or ought
to have agreed to meet  any financial consequences  for E of its process or that the
result of its actions were foreseeable.
- E as identified above had an opportunity to arrange for things to be mitigated through
the director receiving  and paying  the money  involved. E had already disclosed to one
of the parties  to the transaction the problems with its bank account  so I didnt see that
would necessarily have  affected its reputation and certainly not more than say not
being able to meet the arrangements  at all.
I did agree  that compensation  is warranted  for the way this was handled  and I could see that
the director of E followed this up on numerous  occasions. I needed to make clear  that I could
only consider the impact  on E who is the complainant here, not the distress  of the director. I
fully appreciated  the inconvenience  for E of not having an operational bank account and that
Lloyds provided  poor service. I said I thought  that this is already fairly  reflected in the
amount already now offered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it accepted my recommendation and it did not have any other comments.
E did not accept this and wanted me to listen to telephone  calls it had with Lloyds during the 
relevant times. I did ask our investigator  to contact Lloyds to see if telephone recordings 
could be obtained.  I appreciate that the process of checking for this was subject to some 
delay - not least as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. Im afraid it has not been possible 
now to obtain  telephone  calls. And so, as I result, Im going  to need to make my decision 
based on the evidence thats  already  available.
Ref: DRN72257144I will summarise  what  the director of Es said. The focus of that is on the financial loss and 
appropriate compensation for the errors.  E accepted that loss of reputation will not be 
considered. E maintained that it was told that the KYC process would  take 20 days  and that 
if Lloyds did not have the information it needed it should have followed this up. E said that 
had the exercise  been completed for the existing company structure  and activities  then it 
would have been more straightforward  for the new business and the account would not have 
been blocked at that time. The director said she thought that Lloyds had manipulated the 
situation. It had not seen  a copy of a letter in July 2018 or heard about this. 
On 14 February 2019 Lloyds wrote to it to say that its account would be blocked if it did not 
get into contact  by 14 April 2019.  The director said she dealt  with this as soon  as it was sent 
to her by her brother.  She said that when she did come home, she went through  all her 
correspondence if shed  been travelling and that this is kept together and overseen  by her 
brother and sister and anything  urgent is scanned  and sent on to her. On 17 April 2019 E 
received a letter saying that Lloyds was investigating her complaint. And on 8 May 2019 she 
chased for a response and after a long call was told that there was a block on her address. 
The letter of 9 May 2019 offering further compensation was not received and she asks 
whether it was instead written after the event  since  I find it odd some letters are reaching  
and some are not. Some letters she believed were  never sent, others were conflicting, and 
she said there is confusion about  how much honesty  there  is in the system.
The compensation of £1,000 the director stated  is not sufficient for the more  than 23 failings. 
She gave  the information needed  at every stage and kept Lloyds  informed but needed to 
keep chasing.  This is especially as the letter of 14 February 2019 was sent out when the 
account had already been blocked. The financial loss is as a direct  result of these failings. E 
asked why Lloyds  should not be accountable  for this.
I have considered these  further comments carefully.  Lloyds has accepted  that it should have 
provided better customer service to E. It didnt  make clear  that its account had already been 
blocked when  it contacted  E about the dormancy. And although  it asked E a number of 
relevant questions in February 2019 it didnt  follow  up on that. Against that those questions 
had been outstanding since it blocked the account in July 2018. And it still seems to me that 
there were some fundamental  changes  to the nature of Es business  and its structure  that 
would still have needed to have been addressed. As I say I havent been  able to listen  to 
telephone calls so I cant add more to what Ive already set out in my timeline of what 
happened. And which absent the comments  Ive referred to above seems to represent what  
happened and the timescales  involved.
I remain of the view that Lloyds cannot  be responsible for the consequences of E not 
completing its KYC requirements. I dont  accept that evidence  of a lack of co-ordination in 
Lloyds means that I should then conclude that it tried to cover  mistakes up. Thats  not my 
assessment of the situation and although I cant account for why E did not receive all of 
Lloyds letters, I dont  have a reasonable basis to find that these werent  correctly  sent.  To 
me all the communications are consistent with actions Lloyds took  for example in blocking 
the account in July 2018.
I have considered again the compensation now agreed to be paid by Lloyds. Thats a 
substantial amount based on our published  guidance. And I am looking at the overall amount 
 not trying to segment  it across individual failings. My conclusion  is that Lloyds provided  a 
poor service and could  have responded better, and more fully and quickly to the requests. 
But it would only unblock the account when it had all the information and, in my view,  there  
was never  any guarantee of how long that might take. Or that it would happen  before E 
Ref: DRN72257145wanted to make an important transaction after a long period of not using the account  at all. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision there  did seem to be a way for E to mitigate  the 
impact by arranging  payment through the directors account.
In conclusion Im not going to be departing from my provisional assessment of what  is 
appropriate here. And so, I wont be asking Lloyds to do more  than pay E £1,000 for the 
level of inconvenience  caused. I appreciate that the director will remain  disappointed  by this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay E 
£1,000 as it has now agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7225714