K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. MrsG disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint because:
Mrs G says PPI wasnt discussed when she took out her store card,  and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. She says shes taken out many  other  credit  cards and 
she didnt buy PPI with any of them.
Ive noted everything  Mrs G has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what 
was discussed  between Mrs G and the sales person when the policy  was sold.  Im 
also mindful that these  events took place many  years ago, and that exact  
recollections of what happened  can fade over time.  
So without anything  else to support  what Mrs G has told me, I havent been  able to 
safely conclude that FICL  didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional.  
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about  any other means that Mrs G had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended the policy to Mrs G, it doesnt  look as though it 
was unsuitable  for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs G says she wouldve been entitled to benefits  if she was off sick, and that she 
couldve relied on her family.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Gs 
employer benefits  and wouldve done  so, it seems,  for longer.  And it wouldve meant 
she didnt need  to rely on her family.  
So I still think Mrs G wouldve  had some use for the policy.
Ref: DRN75340442Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs G would have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7534044