K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 2000. The cost of the PPI was added  
onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy.  It covered Mr Bs 
loan repayments  in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold, for much the same reasons  
as our adjudicator.
This sale was almost two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since  closed. 
So understandably, neither side have the original  documents  from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  rules  Lloyds were required to dispose of Mr Bs data rather than hold on to it 
for too long. Mr B doesnt remember  buying  PPI, and I also think thats understandable given  
just how long ago this sale was, and since buying  insurance is not often  memorable.  Ive 
thought carefully  about whats most  likely to have  happened.
I do have sample copies of the loan application process  from the time of Mr Bs sale.  It looks 
like the PPI wouldve  been described as optional and Mr B wouldve been given the choice 
to take it out or turn it down, with both options being equally prominent.  In order to get the 
policy, it seems  Mr B would have to have  actively chosen it. Ive not seen  any wider 
problems with Lloyds  sales  process  from the time,  nor any evidence  showing that it misled  
Mr B into having PPI in this particular sale. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr B 
aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks  like Mr B 
was eligible for the cover  and wasnt significantly affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
While Mr B had some  sick pay through work,  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and it 
covered him for longer. And he doesnt seem to have  had any other significant protection in 
case he lost his job. I understand Mr Bs family may have been  happy to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And the policy  meant Mr B 
wouldnt have to ask anyone else to pay for his loan  which was in his sole name  if he 
was off sick or lost his job. So it looks like the PPI couldve  been useful for him.
Ref: DRN73982072Mr B wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. But I havent  seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the loan early.  For 
instance, it wasnt a particularly long-term loan and he didnt have a history  of refinancing 
early with Lloyds. So I think  the policy was still probably right for Mr B, and I dont think  that 
better information about the cancellation terms wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it doesnt  look like Mr B was significantly affected  by any of 
the key things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for him in case something 
went wrong. It looks like the PPI wouldve been  affordable. And given  how long the policy  
could have paid out for, if Mr B made a successful claim  he couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. Overall, I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have 
put Mr B off taking it out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7398207