K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) only credited her credit  
card account  with £36.15 after she paid in £350 at a branch of another bank.
background
Ms J queried why £350 she paid into another bank on 2 August 2018 hadnt been  fully 
credited to her credit card account  by Barclays. It told her that the bank into which she paid 
the money hadnt paid it the correct  amount.  And it said she should  contact the other bank to 
put a trace  on the money.  The bank she paid the money into put three different traces  on the 
money and after Ms J complained to that bank it said it had sent the money to Barclays and 
it couldnt help any further. Barclays later wrote to Ms J on 18 October  2018  confirming it had 
received the money and it would be credited to her account.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Ms J paid in £350 to her local bank but only £36.15 was credited by Barclays to her 
credit card account.  Barclays has supplied the giro it received  which  shows the 
correct amount of £350 was hand  written on it. But the encoded amount was £36.15 
and that amount was used to pay the account. 
Neither Barclays nor the bank  the money  was paid into can evidence what clearing 
house made the error when the encoded  amount was inputted.  But Barclays  says it 
didnt make the error. As neither  Barclays nor the other bank can say where the error 
occurred its fair they should both split the compensation Ms J should receive. 
Ms J should be paid a total of £100 compensation. As Barclays  has already credited  
her with £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused, its fair for it to pay her 
another £25. Its also already credited £14.16 to cover the interest that was charged 
in the relevant month.
Barclays doesnt agree and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  It says the fault appears  to 
have been at the clearing house.  And as a fault by Barclays hasnt been  identified, its unfair 
to penalise it. It received  an incorrect amount and processed it in good  faith.  When  the 
mistake became apparent it applied a temporary  credit to the account and refunded all 
interest applied  in that month. Its also given Ms J £25 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused in recognition that this wasnt her fault.  The adjudicators  
recommendation is punitive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It hasnt been  possible to determine exactly which business was responsible for the error 
made when  Ms Js £350 payment was incorrectly credited to her account  as one of £36.15. 
But it looks  most likely it was an error made by a clearing house. 
Barclays says it wasnt its fault as it accepted the payment in good  faith.  Even so it has 
rightly recognised that Ms J is an innocent party and wasnt  in any way to blame for the 
Ref: DRN70516912error. And I think it was fair for Barclays to refund some interest to Ms J and provide her with 
a temporary credit to her account.  
Barclays has also already  accepted  Ms J suffered some distress  and inconvenience as a 
result of whats happened.  And in recognition of this and Ms Js blamelessness its already  
made a £25 payment of compensation to her. I agree  with the adjudicator that the distress 
and inconvenience  Ms J has been caused would justify a payment of a total of £100 
compensation. But in this case on the available evidence and in view of Barclays 
acceptance of Ms Js blamelessness and the distress  and inconvenience  shed been caused 
by whats happened, I think its fair for it to pay her a little more  compensation than the £25 it 
has already done.  
Overall I think  a payment  by Barclays of another £25 compensation for Ms Js accepted  
distress and inconvenience, taking the total paid to £50, is reasonable. Thats one half of the 
amount of the total £100 compensation award I think her distress and inconvenience 
warrants, with the other £50 being  paid by the bank that received the money. I dont  agree  
with Barclays that this is punitive.  I think  its a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint 
given all the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) 
should pay Ms J a further £25 compensation in addition to everything its already done.
Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Ms J 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Ms J how much  its taken  off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051691