K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Intelligent Pensions Ltd caused delays and made administration errors 
when transferring the value of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal  
pension plan (PPP) in 2016/17. She says this resulted in a guaranteed transfer value from 
her OPS provider lapsing. The transfer value, when the transfer  was completed,  some  
months later, was £22,811.05 lower and so she claims  this amount from Intelligent Pensions.
background
The background to this complaint was set-out  in my provisional decision dated 3 July 2019, 
a copy of which is attached and which forms part of my final decision. In my provisional  
decision, I explained why I didnt think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld.
Ms P responded on 29 July 2019  and said, in summary:
She is pleased I agree  a series of errors  were made;
The receiving scheme contacted  Intelligent Pensions on 23 December and explained 
the problem with the wet signatures. Intelligent Pensions delayed  the necessary 
follow-up, initially  denying there  was a problem. It did not contact  the ceding  scheme 
to explain the problem;
The completed papers  were  not received by the ceding scheme until 16 January 
2017, so it did not accept  the delay was due to postal issues. The ceding scheme 
would have paid the original transfer value if the delay  was shorter e.g. one week,  if it 
had been told about the delays;
The situation wouldnt have  arisen  if Intelligent Pensions had sent the original signed  
paperwork to the receiving scheme  by special delivery. It sent other post by special 
delivery; 
The receiving scheme received the paperwork from Intelligent Pensions  on 23 
December 2016 but could not process the transaction because  the papers did not 
contain original  signatures.  It contacted Intelligent  Pensions  to try to resolve this on 
23 December so the process could be completed;
Had the paperwork been presented to the receiving scheme properly and processed 
by it on 23 December  and posted  to the ceding scheme, the ceding  scheme  would 
have accepted late receipt  due to the common law postal  rule;
The ceding schemes procedures allow for management discretion,  regarding dates, 
in circumstances  where there is an administration error or postal issue;
Intelligent Pensions was formally instructed on 15 December. It should have 
forewarned the ceding and receiving  scheme the paperwork was on its way and 
could have negotiated options and made  sure the other parties  prioritised this 
transaction;
The forms sent to the ceding  scheme  could have included  a letter  advising  that the 
forms could be expected shortly and keeping open the deadline  door;
Once aware of the error, Intelligent Pensions  could have contacted the ceding 
scheme and requested an extension;
It is evident from the transcript of the telephone conversation between  Intelligent 
Pensions and the receiving scheme  that Intelligent Pensions did nothing  about the 
error when it was contacted by the receiving scheme on 23 December. Action  was 
not taken to get the correct documents signed  until after the New Year  holidays; and
When the correct documents were sent to the receiving scheme they were turned 
around in one day.
Ref: DRN71332982Ms P also wrote to the ceding scheme to clarify whether it would  have extended the deadline 
for accepting  the original  transfer value quote. She received a response dated  26 September  
2019, which she shared with us, a copy of which I sent to Intelligent Pensions. In this letter  
the ceding scheme said each case is dealt with on its own merits. It also said:
I can advise that if a request had been  made to extend the guarantee period prior to expiry 
date, then it might have been granted under  the following circumstances.
If the IFA had explained  that all documentation  was ready to be sent and would be 
leaving their office  that day
If the documentation had been sent or was being sent that day and they were  
concerned that due to the festive period, it would not reach  us on time.
Both the technical  team and the Trustee  department stated that under the above 
circumstances, short extensions had been granted in the past,  but as each case  was dealt 
with on its own merits, no proscribed length of extension to the guarantee period could be 
given.
I sent a copy of this letter  to Intelligent Pensions, which said the letter  did not confirm that the 
ceding scheme would have granted  an extension.  In its experience,  the ceding scheme very 
rarely grants  extensions. Intelligent pensions says it spoke  to the ceding scheme on 23 
December 2016  and the ceding scheme did not mention the possibility of an extension.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Intelligent Pensions ought  to have known if the receiving scheme required original 
signed documents. It is also not disputed that there  was an error in one of the dates on one 
of the documents and reference  to a deadline of 29 December 2016, rather than 
27 December 2016. So, I think  Intelligent Pensions  made some errors.  That said,  Im still not 
persuaded the transfer would have  been  completed  in time, even if Intelligent  Pensions had 
not made any errors.
Intelligent Pensions  sent Ms P the paperwork (which she needed to complete to enable the 
transfer of her pension) on 20 December 2016. The original paperwork needed to be signed 
by her, returned  to Intelligent Pensions and sent to the receiving scheme;  and processed  by 
lunchtime on Friday 23 December 2016.  Theoretically, the transaction could have been 
completed in time if:
-Ms P received, signed,  completed  and returned  the forms on 21 December;
-Intelligent Pensions received  the forms and sent them to the receiving scheme  on
22December; and
-The receiving scheme received and processed  the forms on 23 December. 
But I dont think its more  likely than not that, but for any error on the part of Intelligent 
Pensions, this transaction would  have been  processed in time. 
Intelligent Pensions  had said from the outset,  when it was first instructed on 5 December 
2016, that it did not guarantee that it would be able to complete the transfer by the deadline. 
Ref: DRN71332983The deadline  was effectively Friday 23 December, when the Christmas bank holiday 
weekend is taken into account. 
It seems  the receiving scheme  didnt get all the paperwork until 23 December. According to 
Intelligent Pensions  records it called the receiving  scheme on 23 December 2016  and was 
told the paperwork hadnt arrived. A telephone note was added to Intelligent  Pensions 
system at 11.13 on 23 December to that effect.  But an email from the receiving scheme  
dated 20 February 2017 suggests that, having looked into the matter, the transfer  forms 
were received on 23 December 2016.  
That was with Ms P signing  and returning  the emailed copy  of the documents  the same day 
they were received. The receiving scheme  says it required  the original paperwork,  which  
Ms P wouldnt have received for a further  day, so it seems  all things being equal   the 
receiving scheme wouldnt have received the paperwork until 24 December (when it was 
shut) if Ms P had waited  for the originals, signed  them and returned them. That would have 
been too late to meet  the deadline for the transfer.
Ms P has mentioned that the paperwork was sent to the receiving scheme  by first class 
recorded delivery and could or should have been  sent by special delivery. I understand both 
are next day delivery  services, but while recorded delivery aims to deliver next day, special 
delivery guarantees it. I think Intelligent Pensions would have been expected  to make 
reasonable endeavours to get the paperwork processed in time,  but Im not persuaded it was 
an error that they opted for a next day delivery option that wasnt  guaranteed  over one that 
was. It seems to me that in general,  Intelligent Pensions turned paperwork around  promptly.  
But even if Intelligent Pensions ought  to have used guaranteed next day delivery, Im not 
persuaded its more  likely than not that would have  made a difference.  If the receiving 
scheme had received the original, signed  paperwork on 23 December, it is far from clear it 
would have processed the paperwork by the time it closed, which I understand was around 
12.30pm on 23 December 2016.  From the evidence available, it seems the receiving 
scheme had not located the paperwork in its office  by the time Intelligent Pensions spoke to 
it at around 11.13am.
The file Ive been provided with contains  an email from the receiving scheme dated 20 
February 2017. This email suggests that when the forms were eventually  correctly signed  
and returned to the receiving scheme, they were processed within its maximum turnaround  
time, which appears to have been  four working  days. 
Ive thought about whether the receiving scheme  might have processed the transaction  
faster if Intelligent Pensions had done  things  differently. I note the 20 February 2017 email  
from the receiving scheme  points  out that Intelligent Pensions told it the wrong  deadline date 
 29 December 2016, rather than 27 December 2016. It goes on to say the receiving 
scheme asked Intelligent Pensions to give it a call in future if there  is a close  deadline, so it 
could do its best to process the transaction quickly. There  has been some  suggestion  that if 
Intelligent Pensions  had done this, the receiving scheme could have processed the 
transaction in time. 
If the paperwork was received  by the receiving  scheme on 23 December 2016 and given the 
covering letter said there  was a deadline  of 29 December 2016, knowing it was closing at 
12.30pm and not reopening until 28 December 2016, I think  it would have been apparent  
that this was urgent. Im not sure a phone  call to further highlight  the deadline  would have 
added much. If Intelligent  Pensions had given the correct deadline in the paperwork i.e. that 
Ref: DRN71332984it needed to be processed the same day, Im not persuaded the receiving scheme would 
have processed it on the morning  of 23 December 2016. As previously mentioned, Intelligent 
Pensions did call on 23 December to chase up the paperwork  and check if it had been 
received and at that point, about an hour before the office closed, it seems the papers hadnt 
been located. 
In order for me to conclude this transaction would  have  been processed in time,  but for 
Intelligent Pensions  errors, I would  need to be persuaded it was not reasonable to use 
recorded delivery to send  the paperwork,  which  would mean  the original paperwork could 
have been received on 23 December.  I would then need to be satisfied the receiving scheme  
would, more likely than not, have received and processed the paperwork on the morning of 
23 December 2016, despite having a standard turnaround time of four days  or more. While it 
says it would have  done its best to process the paperwork promptly if it had been  aware  of 
the tight deadline, I think it was aware there was a tight deadline and it doesnt seem it was 
able to locate  and process  the papers it actually received by 12.30pm,  notwithstanding  they 
didnt contain  original signatures. So this doesnt  really persuade me its more likely than not 
it would  have processed the transfer  in time, if it had received all the correct paperwork on 
23 December, especially in view of the fact it was only open  for half a day. 
There is some suggestion  that the ceding  scheme could have exercised its discretion and 
might have paid the original transfer  value even  if the deadline had been missed, if the forms 
were returned a short while later and if Intelligent  Pensions had asked for an extension  
before the deadline expired.  
There is limited  evidence  on this point. The ceding schemes original  letter dated 
27 September 2016, which contained  the guaranteed transfer  value said:
If any of the discharge  forms (refer to checklist on page 2) are received after 27 December 
2016, that is after the guarantee period  has expired, the transfer  value will be recalculated  
and may be more or less than the amount quoted  above. We will also require that new 
discharge forms are completed and returned to us
The letter from the ceding scheme, dated 26 September 2019, suggests  an extension might  
have been granted in certain  circumstances, set out above. In essence,  the ceding  scheme  
says it might have granted an extension if Intelligent Pensions had asked for one and had 
explained that all the documentation was ready  and would  be leaving its office that day or 
had been sent and Intelligent Pensions  was concerned  the ceding scheme might not receive 
it in time due to the festive period. 
I have considered this point carefully.  The situation  was that the ceding scheme had already 
received the paperwork from Intelligent Pensions  on 23 December  2016,  so the 
circumstances described above do not quite fit the facts  of this case. If Intelligent Pensions  
had requested an extension from the ceding  scheme on 23 December 2016, it would have 
been on the basis that it was not sure whether  the receiving scheme would  process the 
paperwork in time,  as Intelligent Pensions  had been advised that the receiving scheme had 
not yet received the paperwork. So Intelligent Pensions would not have been able to say the 
final pieces of documentation would be sent that day by the receiving  scheme. The same 
may well have been true even if the correctly signed, original paperwork had been received 
by the receiving scheme on 23 December 2016. There  was still no guarantee the receiving 
scheme would  have been able to locate and process the paperwork by 12.30pm  and 
Intelligent Pensions  would  have had to request  an extension from the ceding  scheme  on the 
Ref: DRN71332985basis it wasnt able to say how long it might take the receiving scheme  to locate and process  
the paperwork. 
As it seems the ceding schemes criteria  for granting an extension  would not have been met, 
in either  scenario, I am not persuaded it would have granted  an extension.  
On balance, for the reasons given  above and set out in my provisional decision,  I am not 
persuaded that it is more likely than not that the transfer would have been completed in time 
but for the errors of Intelligent Pensions. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Greg Barham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN71332986copy of provisional decision 
complaint
Ms P complains  that Intelligent Pensions Ltd caused delays in transferring  the value  of her
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal  pension plan (PPP) in 2016/17. She says
this resulted in a guaranteed transfer value from her OPS  provider lapsing. The transfer
value when the transfer was completed, some months later, was £22,811.05 lower and so
she claims this amount  from Intelligent  Pensions.
Background
Intelligent pensions received  the client and instructions to provide advice  on a possible OPS
transfer to a PPP on 5 December 2016.
An analysis  and recommendation was completed by Intelligent Pensions and sent to Ms P
on 12 December 2016.
Ms P replied on 15 December 2016 saying she wanted to proceed.
Intelligent Pensions says it prepared the paperwork and emailed it to Ms P on 20 December
2016. It sent the originals  through the post the same day. Ms P signed the emailed  copies
and returned them in the post with Intelligent Pensions receiving them on 21 December
2016. Intelligent Pensions says it posted these forms to Ms Ps OPS  provider that day, by
special delivery to ensure it got there by the expiry date. It also posted the necessary
paperwork to the receiving scheme on the same day, again by special delivery.
Intelligent Pensions says the OPS  provider  confirmed, on 23 December 2016,  that it had
received the paperwork from Intelligent Pensions. It says the receiving scheme  told
Intelligent Pensions it hadnt received the forms, on 23 December 2016. Intelligent  Pensions
says the receiving scheme contacted it on 29 December  2016 and said the application  form
needed a wet signature from the adviser. The receiving  scheme did not return the forms
until 6 January 2017 and Intelligent Pensions was able to return the completed paperwork on
11 January 2017, but by that time the guaranteed transfer value  had expired.
Intelligent Pensions says it had made  Ms P aware at the outset that the turnaround  time was
tight and it did not guarantee it could complete  the transaction before the transfer value
guarantee expired.
Intelligent Pensions says if it had not emailed the documents  to Ms P on 20 December 2016,
given the time of year, it is unlikely the paperwork  would  have been completed in time
anyway.
It also says when the transfer  did not go ahead and the transfer value  was recalculated, 
Ms P chose  to go ahead, knowing the transfer value  had fallen. She did not need to do that and any 
loss she incurred was due to her own actions.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ps complaint. She said there was enough  time to complete  the
transfer and if it had not been for Intelligent Pensions  errors, the transfer would  have been
completed in time. In particular, she said Intelligent Pensions should  have sent the forms
that needed completion  with the suitability  report and recommendation, which would have
saved time. She also said as Ms P had an adviser who had asked Intelligent Pensions to
facilitate the transfer, the detailed report could have been reduced  and therefore  taken less
time to produce.  When Intelligent  Pensions received Ms Ps confirmation to proceed on 15
December 2016 it did not send her the documents for completion until 20 December 2016.
Given that the timescale was tight and every  day mattered, it should  have sent the papers
sooner. Intelligent Pensions should have checked whether a wet signature was needed.
Intelligent Pensions did not accept the adjudicators view.  It said that while it appreciated the
timescale was short, it owed Ms P a duty of care to ensure she understood the advantages
Ref: DRN71332987and disadvantages  of the proposed transfer and was given sufficient  time to consider it. If it
had included  the partially completed forms with the suitability report it would have been
placing undue pressure on Ms P to go ahead and that would not be in the spirit  of treating
customers fairly and the FCAs requirements.
While the adjudicator thought it had a duty to take all necessary actions to avoid delays, it
considered its primary duty was to provide suitable advice  and give her sufficient time to
make an informed  decision  without feeling pressured by Intelligent Pensions to go ahead
with the transfer. It had said at the outset that it could  not guarantee being able to complete
the transfer before  the guaranteed expiry date and Ms P chose to engage Intelligent
Pensions on that basis.
It did not agree with the adjudicators  point  that it could have produced a shorter report due
to the involvement  of another adviser. Ms P was introduced to Intelligent  Pensions by that
other adviser for advice  on a potential  pension transfer. It was a requirement  of COBS  19.1
to provide her with a detailed  analysis  and suitability report. It would not avoid those
requirements to meet a deadline specified by the OPS provider.
It sent the paperwork by recorded delivery  on 21 December 2016, the same day it received it
from Ms P. Both the OPS  and receiving scheme confirmed they received the paperwork on
23 December 2016.
It says in its experience providers do not require  a wet signature and even in the receiving
schemes email dated  29 December it says ...we  require  most of our forms to be wet signed
by the client and/or financial adviser. So it is not clear the adviser needed to wet sign the
form. The form was wet signed by the client.
While one of the forms was dated incorrectly. the receiving  scheme has not suggested  the
incorrect date would have  prevented the transfer from going ahead. The other forms were
correctly dated.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
All parties accept  that the timeframe for completing the transfer was tight. Ms P had a
guaranteed transfer value but the guarantee was due to expire on 27 December 2016.
Intelligent pensions received  the client form and instructions  to provide advice on a possible
OPS transfer to a PPP on 5 December 2016. 5 December 2016 was a Monday, giving just
15 working days until the Christmas Bank Holiday weekend. businesses  would not be
expected to reopen  until 28 December  2016, after the transfer deadline. It made clear it
could not guarantee the transfer  would be made in time.
An analysis  and recommendation was completed by Intelligent Pensions and sent to Ms P
on 12 December 2016, which was a prompt turnaround  time. Ms P replied on 15 December
2016 saying she wanted  to proceed.
Intelligent Pensions says it prepared the paperwork and emailed it to Ms P on 20 December
2016, which, bearing in mind  17 and 18 December were a Saturday and Sunday
respectively, was once again, a reasonable turnaround time.
Intelligent Pensions was aware  of the urgency but by 20 December there was very little time
in which to complete the transfer. If it used next day delivery to send  the original  documents
on 20 December, it might  then have  received  the original  paperwork  back from Ms P on 22
Ref: DRN71332988December and sent the form to the receiving scheme on 22 or 23 December  with the wet
signatures. But there was no guarantee the receiving scheme would  have been able to
receive and process  the paperwork,  if it had arrived in time, on the morning of 23 December
(it closed at midday  for the Christmas holidays). It seems to me that the deadlines were very
tight. I have  little doubt  the receiving schemes  service standards were  such that it would  not
have guaranteed to process the transaction within half a day of receiving the necessary
paperwork and get paperwork over to the OPS provider  that same  day and I do not think it is
reasonable to expect  this.
While Intelligent Pensions might have made some errors, such as the wrong  date on one of
the forms and mis-informing  the receiving scheme about the expiry date in one of its letters, I
have seen little to persuade me these errors would  have  made a difference.
I do not agree with the adjudicator that Intelligent  Pensions  should have reduced the time
taken to complete the suitability  report or included the forms with the suitability report. I think
it acted  very promptly in producing a transfer analysis and suitability  report  in a matter of
days.
I do not think  it made any identifiable errors until 20 December, when it sent the forms back
to Ms P with the wrong date on one and failed  to make it clear she needed to sign and return
the original  papers, not the emailed  copies.  But as explained above,  I am not persuaded the
three and a half working days, inclusive  of 20 December,  that it had in which  to post the
originals, receive them back from Ms P and send them to the receiving  scheme to process
and send the receiving scheme warranty to the OPS, was ever likely to be enough  time.
Had it not made these errors, it is reasonable  to think it would have taken  at least  another
day for it to have received the original paperwork  back from Ms P, because  she would have
had to wait for the originals  in the post.  So it would have most likely received the signed
originals back from her on 22 December  2016. Since it took two days  for the receiving
scheme to receive the letter sent on 21 December, if it had taken two days  to receive the
signed originals, if they had been  sent on 22 December, it seems likely  the receiving scheme
would not have received  them before the guaranteed transfer value  expired.
If I add in to that the fact the receiving scheme would have had to send the OPS  a receiving
scheme warranty, even if the necessary paperwork had been  received on 23 December
2016, it is not clear to me that the receiving scheme, which was only open in the morning,
would have been able to complete that and send it to the OPS. It is not clear the OPS would
have accepted  emailed forms either, which seems to have  been the only realistic way the
documents could have  been  sent to it on 23 December 2016. I say this because  Intelligent
Pensions letter  to the receiving scheme dated 21 December 2016 requested that, in view of
the deadline, the receiving  scheme  send  the original documents  to the OPS as a matter of
urgency.
Overall, I am not persuaded Intelligent Pensions caused Ms P to miss out on the guaranteed
transfer value.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Ps complaint.
Greg Barham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7133298