K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them a Total Mortgage  
Protection Plan (TMPP) which provided  unnecessary life cover  along with a form of PPI, 
called mortgage  repayment cover (MRC),  in 2002.
background 
They said:
They had existing  life cover in place
Mr Cs employer wouldve paid out a sum equivalent to four years  of his salary in the 
event of death 
His income was sufficient to continue repaying the mortgage in the event that Mrs Cs 
income was lost
The cover  was set up without their knowledge or consent
Halifax rejected their complaint, saying it was satisfied that the cover was suitable  and that 
they had knowingly agreed to it. In particular it argued that as Mr and Mrs C had cancelled 
the PPI part of the policy in 2003 this indicated  they had been  aware  of what  theyd 
purchased and actively chose to continue  with the life cover beyond  2003.
An investigator at this service said that it was reasonable to recommend bespoke cover  for 
their new mortgage even though they had existing  workplace protection. This was a sensible 
additional insurance for a new debt and, in any case, any workplace benefits could not be 
guaranteed to be available  throughout the lifetime  of their mortgage.
That said,  he noted that as Mr and Mrs C had taken out a repayment mortgage it was not 
appropriate for BoS to have recommended a level term insurance  policy  i.e. where  the 
amount of cover did not reduce in line with the declining mortgage debt. Instead, it should 
have recommended a decreasing term policy, something which was typically cheaper than a 
level term policy.
But after various  exchanges with BoS,  he concluded that the level term policy had not been 
more expensive than a comparable decreasing term policy in this instance.
He also didnt feel there was sufficient evidence  to conclude Mr and Mrs C had been  
unaware of what the policy included. He therefore  felt they had, more  likely than not, agreed 
to take out life cover and the protection element.
Mr and Mrs C did not agree, and said: 
Whether this policy was suitable or note, it was for them  to decide whether to 
purchase additional cover; they were  not given that choice
The fact that we cancelled the MRC part of the plan in 2003 - when we realised we 
were paying it - is indicative of our desire not to have had any additional cover
If we had been aware of the life cover, we would also have also cancelled  that; t is 
difficult to consider cancelling something, if you dont know you have it
It is surprising that BoS claims that a DTA policy would have been more expensive  
than an LTA one as the DTA plan would actually have been  insuring  less
Based  on his limited  research about  the cost of policies at the current  time,  the 
general consensus  is that DTA policies were  cheaper
Ref: DRN78366782Using data that would  have been applicable in 2002, they have been  quoted  - by a 
very reputable  company - figures  of just over £14 a month for a DTA plan and over 
£20 a month for an LTA one
If they had wanted additional cover to that already had in place, they would have 
been better served by seeking  policies  elsewhere
We still believe that the cover we already  had was more than sufficient for our needs. 
This view is reinforced  by the fact that when  he retired in March 2017,  hed had 27 
years of 100% attendance; if our situation  had changed during this period then we 
would have reviewed  our position  at that time
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain  that in order to uphold a complaint I need to see sufficient, 
persuasive evidence  to safely conclude that a business did something wrong  and that a 
customer has suffered financially as a result. When the issue relates to something which 
occurred 20 years ago, there  is often  very little paperwork  making it difficult, but not 
impossible in some cases,  to safely assess what happened.
In this case, I recognise that Mr and Mrs C are adamant  that they werent aware of what  was 
being sold and that they didnt need  either element of the policy. But I simply dont feel there  
is enough evidence  to conclude that BoS or its advisor misled  them  into taking out a policy  
that they didnt  want, giving the limited paperwork available.
I have therefore  assessed whether, on balance, it was reasonable to recommend life cover 
for their mortgage and a protection plan as part of it.
For the reasons  the investigator explained,  I dont think it is unreasonable for an advisor to 
recommend someone  takes out insurance cover for a new mortgage,  particularly where  they 
have at least one family  member who would be left with having to try and pay the mortgage  
in the event of their death (in order to avoid selling the property).
I think this is still the case  where someone has workplace life cover and related benefits as 
there is no guarantee that these will last for the length of the borrowing commitment.  I do 
take Mr and Mrs Cs point  that it was for them to decide whether they wanted to take out 
bespoke mortgage  protection in addition to their workplace cover; and that it would have  
been reasonable to decide to reject this recommendation and wait to potentially reconsider if 
they left their existing  jobs. But this comes back to the question of whether  they were  made  
aware that this was an optional recommendation rather than a condition of the mortgage.
I also was surprised that BoS claimed this LTA policy was as cheap or cheaper  than DTA 
cover, whether  this be the policies sold by its retail advisors in a different division or other 
providers at the same time. On the face of it, this seems unlikely as a DTA policy would  have 
provided less cover  across the mortgage  period as a whole.
But I am now satisfied  that this was the case. Ive discovered that this service investigated 
BoS/Halifaxs policy of recommending LTA policies between 2000  and 2007,  and its 
repeated justification  that these policies were  cheaper due to lower  charges. After extensive 
research it concluded:
Ref: DRN78366783Weve compared the cost of the LTA with a variety of DTA products available  from 2000 to 
2007 across the market  and have found  that the LTA was cheaper than most  and it 
appears the reason is simply that Bank  of Scotland  offered relatively cheap cover.
It also concluded that BoS loss calculations, where it had admitted that it shouldnt have 
recommended an LTA policy, were broadly fair, saying:
We have carefully considered the decreasing term assurance policy  Halifax  uses  to 
complete these calculations, and as a service we think it is a fair policy,  as it is not dissimilar  
in price to those provided by other  companies  at the time of the sale. 
Given this, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr and Mrs C lost out as 
a result of being recommended an LTA policy.
For the reasons  I outlined  at the start, I also dont think  there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that they were  mis-sold the mortgage  premium protection policy either.  This would  
have been of value if they were unable to pay their monthly direct debit due to sickness, 
unemployment etc. Importantly Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs C couldnt have 
made a successful claim if such circumstances arose; so it didnt suffer from the common 
drawbacks of many PPI policies where the customer could never have  benefitted from the 
policy. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in so far as I do not believe Bank of Scotland plc should  have  
recommended a level term policy for a repayment mortgage without, at least, fully explaining 
why it was doing so. But I do not instruct it to pay any compensation as I have not seen 
sufficient to safely conclude that Mr and Mrs C suffered financially as a result of this 
unsuitable advice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7836678