K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Ulster Bank  Ltd (Ulster Bank) mis-sold her a U First packaged 
bank account  in 2011. She paid a monthly  fee for the account which provided several 
benefits in return.
Mrs H says that she felt pressured into upgrading her account. She says that shes not used 
any of the benefits  other than receiving cash back and wasnt told that shed have to declare 
any pre-existing medical conditions to the travel  insurance underwriter to check if shed be 
covered.
background
Mrs Hs account history  is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  current account on 27 September 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying U First account on 31 May 2011
U First account changed to fee-paying U First Gold  account on 16 September 2014
Closed on 29 March  2017
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the U First account had 
been mis-sold. She explained that the account  changed to U First Gold  in 2014  as Ulster 
Bank had transferred all U First account  holders  over to the U First Gold  account.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help decide  what to do about Mrs Hs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Hs complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think the U First account  was mis-sold 
to her. And I dont think Ulster Bank  was wrong or acted unreasonably by transferring Mrs 
Hs account to a U First Gold account  in 2014.  Ill explain why.
U First account
Firstly I have thought  about  whether Mrs H was given a fair choice in taking out the account. 
Mrs H held a free account for many  years prior to having this account, so I think  that she 
would have been aware that free accounts  were  generally available.
Ref: DRN71702212Mrs H says that she felt pushed into upgrading her account. However, based on what Mrs H 
has said, it doesnt seem as though Ulster  Bank forced her into agreeing to the account or 
that it used unreasonable sales tactics during the sale. On the contrary, it seems that Mrs H 
was persuaded  into agreeing to the account because of what it offered, but with hindsight  
Mrs H now regrets  agreeing to it as she made little use of the account benefits.  However  this 
on its own doesnt mean that Ulster  Bank was unreasonable or wrong  to have sold the 
account to Mrs H in the first instance.
Mrs H says that she was led to believe that she had to agree to the upgrade to increase her 
overdraft. But a feature  of the account was that it offered  an interest and fee-free overdraft 
facility of up to £500, as well as reduced interest  rates on balances overdrawn by more than 
£500 up to an agreed limit. In addition to this the account also offered discounts on personal 
loan interest rates. 
Mrs H already had an agreed  overdraft  limit of £200  before the sale of the U First account, 
which was then then increased to £400  on 2 November 2011.  So I think Mrs H was most 
likely told about the overdraft benefits provided by the U First account, and she agreed  to it 
to get those benefits, rather  than because she thought she had to agree to it or that it would 
necessarily improve her ability to get further lending. 
So taking everything into account, I think that Mrs H agreed to the U First account knowing  
that it was optional.
Looking at what Ulster Bank and Mrs H have said, I dont think the U First account was 
recommended to Mrs H. This means  that Ulster  Bank didnt have to check  Mrs Hs 
circumstances or check that the account  was right for her. But it did have to give Mrs H the 
important information  about the account  and the associated benefits.
Based on what Mrs H has said,  I think that she was given some information about  the 
account. For example,  her recollections suggest the overdraft benefit was explained to her 
and she was told about other features  of the account, such  as receiving  cashback  when 
booking events  as I can see she received cash back  on some  bookings. Mrs H has said 
that she didnt  always receive cash back,  but that doesnt mean Ulster Bank was wrong to 
have sold the account to her for that benefit  as the cash back benefit  was, like all benefits,  
subject to various terms and conditions.
However, I think its possible  that Ulster Bank  didnt give Mrs H all of the important 
information it shouldve.  For example,  Mrs H has said that she was unable to register  her 
BlackBerry mobile phone following  her account  being upgraded, because BlackBerrys 
werent covered  by the mobile  phone insurance.  
Ive looked at the insurance wording and prior to May 2011  it does appear to exclude cover  
for BlackBerrys. But, it seems that the terms and conditions changed around the time Mrs H 
upgraded to the U First account and BlackBerrys were subsequently covered. So although 
Mrs H mayve been given  information  about  the existing mobile phone insurance  terms and 
conditions, Mrs H chose to keep  her account, so Im not persuaded she wouldve necessarily 
been put off from upgrading  to the U First account,  had she been told that BlackBerrys  were 
shortly due to be covered.  And I cant see that Mrs H has lost out from being unable  to 
register her Blackberry either.
Ref: DRN71702213Mrs H also says that she wasnt  told about the need to declare pre-existing  medical  
conditions to the travel insurer  to check if she would be covered for them. Again it looks  as 
though travel insurance wasnt  a benefit  previously  and was added  as a benefit around the 
time of the sale. So its possible  that it wasnt mentioned as it wasnt  an active benefit on the 
day Mrs Hs account changed. But going on the basis  that it was a benefit at the time, had 
Ulster Bank made Mrs H aware of this requirement, I think she wouldve told the insurer 
about her conditions. And based on what I know about those conditions, I think  its likely that 
Mrs H wouldve received  cover for at least one of them. 
For the condition  that Mrs H might not have been  covered for, its likely that the decision of 
the insurer wouldve  been similar to what  many other travel  insurers  wouldve done had she 
sought cover  elsewhere instead. Mrs H has also not told us of any instances where shes 
had travel insurance claims declined because she didnt declare her medical conditions. And 
Mrs Hs recollections suggest she agreed to it mainly  for the banking  benefits rather than for 
all of the other benefits the account provided.  So I dont think  Mrs H has been  prejudiced,  or 
has lost out, if Ulster Bank failed to draw this requirement of the policy  to her attention during 
the sale of the account.
Mrs H has also said that her pre-existing  medical conditions meant that she might  not have 
been covered  by the accidental death insurance  that looks  to have been added  as a benefit  
when the travel insurance was added. But this type of insurance only pays out in the event of 
death caused by an accident  - rather than an illness. So I dont think  it is likely that Mrs Hs 
medical conditions  wouldve  affected  her estates  ability to claim on this benefit,  if the worst   
were to happen. 
So I think Ulster Bank shouldve given Mrs H more information about the account than it did. 
But Im not persuaded that Mrs H wouldve been  put off from agreeing  to it, had she been 
given more information about the U First account
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont think  the U First account was mis-sold to 
Mrs H. Because of this, Ulster Bank doesnt need to refund the account  fees Mrs H paid to 
have the U First account.
U First Gold 
Mrs H says that she upgraded her account again in 2014 because she was told that having  
the packaged bank accounts  would help her secure  lending. 
But Ulster Bank says it transferred all U First account holders on to the U First Gold  account 
(which cost the same as the U First account at the time) in 2014. And given the date that this 
happened to Mrs Hs account, I think its likely that her account  changed  because  of this, 
rather because she chose  to upgrade.  
Banks are able to transfer account  holders on to other accounts - often because the existing 
account is being withdrawn - providing  those banks  inform  the affected  account holders with 
sufficient notice. 
Mrs H appears  to be aware that her account changed.  And shes not said anything to say 
that shes lost out from anything  that mayve gone wrong during the account transfer. So I 
dont think that Ulster  Bank did anything wrong  in relation to this change and it follows  that it 
doesnt need to refund any of the account fees Mrs H has been charged since the account  
was changed.
Ref: DRN71702214my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7170221