K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC unfairly  closed his accounts and registered a default 
on his credit file.
background
Mr W says he had a Lloyds bank  account  and a Lloyds  credit card that were both closed in 
February 2013. He says he had an injury at work but could have brought  the accounts back  
up to date if given  a chance  to do so. Mr W says Lloyds told him it would help him and that 
an agreement had been reached. He would like the defaults removed and half of the amount 
he owes written  off.
Lloyds says it agreed a repayment plan on the credit  card debt in March  2013 but Mr W 
broke the terms of it and so it closed the account and registered the default. It says there 
wasnt a formal agreement for the bank account  but that was also closed as Mr W was no 
longer making  any payments into it and it was overdrawn. Lloyds says Mr W did contact it 
about making repayments and made  an offer to repay the debt but that payment wasnt  
made. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt  think Lloyds had acted unfairly  or 
made a mistake.  The adjudicator thought an agreement had been reached  on the credit card 
debt but Mr W failed  to keep to the terms of it. And the adjudicator  thought Mr W had 
exceeded his overdraft and so Lloyds  hadnt  made a mistake in closing that account either.
Mr W didnt accept that view and asked  for a copy of the call between him and Lloyds which 
he says took place on 6 February 2013  and not 6 March 2013. Mr W says that call provides  
evidence that there  were  agreements in place to repay the debts.
I looked at the complaint and decided I wanted further information from both sides.  In 
summary I asked Mr W to explain why he thought the accounts were  closed  in February 
2013 as Lloyds records suggest  the date was some  time after that. I also asked  Mr W to 
explain why he thought there  was an agreement on his bank account  and what  was it. 
I asked Lloyds to check its records about  any possible agreement on the bank account and 
why it wasnt discussed in the call.
Lloyds has replied and confirmed it tried to speak to Mr W about his bank account without 
success. It says Mr W did call it in April 2013 when  he made the offer and he was advised 
about the possibility of the account  being  defaulted.
Mr W hasnt replied to my request.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr W will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Lloyds records and listened  to the call between the parties which  Im satisfied 
took place on 6 March 2013. Ive come to that conclusion as Lloyds records satisfy  me that 
was the correct date.  And I think Mr W believes it was a month  earlier as he has worked 
Ref: DRN70364002backwards from the end of the agreement  which he says was August 2013 and taken six 
months of that date.  I think it unlikely that Lloyds  records are incorrect. Im satisfied that the 
call is about the credit card and not the bank account. And Im satisfied a repayment 
agreement is reached.  But I dont think Mr W kept to the terms of it as having looked at 
Lloyds records, Mr W only made  two payments  during  that time. So I dont think  Lloyds 
made a mistake by closing the account  and registering  a default on Mr Ws credit file.
I dont think there was formal agreement  reached  between the parties  for the bank account 
debt. I also dont think the account was closed in February 2013 as Mr W believes, as I can 
see account transactions taking place some time after that time. But Im satisfied Mr W was 
told during the call in April 2013  that the account would be closed and defaulted and that he 
didnt make the agreed repayment. I can see that Mr W had exceeded his overdraft in the 
months leading  up to the account being  closed.  So I dont  think  Lloyds made a mistake by 
closing this account either and by registering a default on his credit file.
Im satisfied that banks  and building societies should accurately report the position of 
accounts to the Credit  Reference Agencies and I think  that is what  happened here.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. And Im satisfied that Lloyds  has treated Mr W in such a way here.  I think it 
fairly agreed  a repayment plan for the credit  card debt which Mr W didnt keep to. And I think 
Lloyds tried to speak to Mr W about  the bank account debt. But no agreement  over and 
above the informal offer by Mr W, which he didnt keep  to, could be reached.
Overall Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt acted  unfairly  here or made a mistake.  And so in those 
circumstances I cant fairly order it to remove the defaults from his credit  file or order  that 
some of the debt should be written off. The defaults  were registered nearly six years ago and 
should no longer be reported  after six years in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036400