K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 2001 and 
2004. Mr B says Lloyds  bank PLC trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester  PLC (C&G) mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
C&G had to make Mr B aware  that the PPI policies were optional  and gain his consent 
before adding them to his mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr B 
applied for the PPI policies but C&G has provided  a copy of the available  paperwork. For 
both sales Mr B signed an application form separate  to his mortgage application to take the 
PPI. With this in mind I think C&G made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it out.
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr B 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled to generous sick pay from his employer at the 
time he took the PPI and that he had considerable savings. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Bs sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI 
would also have allowed Mr B to keep his savings  in place to be used towards  any other 
essential expenses  he may have had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think the PPI was right for him. 
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the policies  - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like they would have been  useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like they were  affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But C&G has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  C&G didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, C&G has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN76580512Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including that he worked for C&G at the time 
and that due to his personal circumstances the initial mortgage application was rushed and 
that for both the sales of the PPI policies the forms were completed  by separate  advisors  
and he just signed where he was asked to. Ive considered this but as Ive said above I cant 
be certain what was said when the polices  were sold, and Mr B was agreeing to an important  
financial commitment on both occasions so I would have expected him to read all of the 
information he was presented with before signing  an agreement with both the mortgage and 
PPI. So with this in mind  these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds bank PLC does not have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds bank  PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7658051