K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr Cs credit  application.  Considering the 
length of time since this policy  was sold, I dont think this is surprising. It has given us a 
generic credit application that was in use at the time Mr Cs policy was sold.  This form 
requires the customer  to tick for the PPI if they wanted it. Ive also seen copies  of some 
of Mr Cs credit card statements  where  PPI appears. So I think if PPI had been added  
without Mr Cs knowledge he couldve questioned why it was appearing on his 
statements. So on balance I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr C 
says he was self-employed  at the time the policy was sold,  but looking at the terms and 
conditions of PPI policies Lloyds sold around  this time  and with what I know of Lloyds 
policy terms more generally  I dont think that being self-employed would have made it 
any more difficult for Mr C to claim on the PPI. 
I note Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the other  exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mr C says he had no other means  of 
making his repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think he wouldve 
found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. Mr C says 
his wife was not working at the time and money  was an issue  but I havent seen 
anything to suggest the PPI was not affordable  for Mr C. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. And I dont think  
Mr C has lost out as a result of anything Lloyds has done  wrong.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Ref: DRN71759632Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7175963