K820x#14complaint
Miss Ns complaint relates  to a property  insurance  policy she holds  with Aviva Insurance  
Limited for a rental property she owns. Shes unhappy that Aviva hasnt paid loss of rent for 
the duration of the claim and how she was treated by members of staff during telephone 
conversations about the claim.  In addition, shes not happy with the level of excess  
associated with the subsidence  peril on the policy.
background
In 2018 Miss N made a claim under her insurance policy for cracking to the rear of a 
property she owns and rents out. Aviva appointed experts to assess  the damage and by late 
2018 it was determined the property  was suffering from subsidence, which  had been  caused 
by a tree in the garden of the property itself and one in an adjacent garden. It was 
recommended both trees be removed. Miss Ns tree was removed at the end of November 
2018 and Aviva approached the neighbour about  removal of the other tree. 
Loss of rent had been agreed and paid for October  and November 2018.  However, it was 
decided not to pay any further  loss of rent as the property  was habitable. Miss N was told 
this in November  2018 and she appealed. She arranged  for a letting agent to look at her 
property. It said, as the property currently stands, I would  consider it to be unprofessional to 
carry out viewings;  the condition will undoubtedly deter potential tenants and experience 
proves that in order to achieve the best price, presentation needs to be immaculate. 
Aviva explained  to Miss N in late 2018  and again  in early 2019  that once the other tree was 
removed, the ground would  stabilise,  and Aviva would be able to do the superstructural 
(above ground)  repairs.  No further loss of rent was agreed. It was also confirmed that some 
drainage problems that had been  identified were  not linked to the subsidence, but could be 
dealt with under a separate claim under a different section  of cover.
In February 2019  Miss N asked for the path and fence  to be included  in the claim. She also 
asked about the cost of decoration that would be part of the claim, as she was considering 
having repairs done before the neighbours tree was removed. Aviva responded and 
confirmed the amount  it had determined the decorations and crack repairs  would cost 
(£6967.12). It confirmed  it would settle  in cash,  but the £5,000 excess would be deducted 
from the settlement  if it did. It also confirmed  that the path and fence didnt fall under the 
subsidence claim. In addition,  it repeated  that it didnt think  the damage meant the property 
was uninhabitable or couldnt be rented out.
Miss N questioned the amount of the excess.  She thought it was excessive and that it was 
based on the property having  suffered from subsidence  over 30 years  earlier. She thought 
the excess should be no more than £1,000 and asked that Aviva review  it.
There were further exchanges  during February 2019  regarding  the scope  of the decorations  
covered by the amount  Aviva had detailed earlier and other questions about  repairs.  Aviva  
supplied Miss N with a copy of the schedule of works and explained it was the repairs 
detailed in it that were  covered by the cash settlement offer.  The schedule of works  didnt 
include repairing the cracked window cills or the bay window. Further answers were given to 
Miss Ns questions that are not key to this decision,  so I wont detail them here.
Ref: DRN72313972Miss N remained  unhappy  with the decision not to pay loss of rent and the amount of the 
excess. She also raised some concerns about  how she had been  spoken to by members of 
staff. 
The complaint was responded to in two letters. Aviva acknowledged that at some  points 
during a conversation with a member  of staff, Miss N and the staff member had spoken over 
each other.  It was confirmed that feedback was being given to the member of staff. 
However, in relation to the excess, Aviva said it had been in place since  the policy  had been 
arranged and had she not been  happy with it, she could have taken alternative cover.  It 
confirmed the excess needed to be paid before  any repairs were done. In addition, Aviva  
pointed out in the policy what  was said about  this and when it was payable. It confirmed the 
property didnt meet the policy requirements for loss of rent to be paid.
Miss N wasnt  satisfied  with Avivas response and asked us to look at her concerns. 
Following doing  so, she told us that Aviva had cancelled some  of the repairs it had 
previously said it would  do. This placed  her in the position of having to find someone to 
complete the job with only five days before the new tenants were due to move  in. This work 
was to repair damage to the window cills and under the bay window. Miss N paid the 
insurers builders to do these works  at a cost of £745.80 plus VAT.
Aviva issued a further complaint response  as she had said shed been treated badly. It said 
that it was not sure how Miss N believed she had been treated badly as she hadnt  
explained. However, it could understand she felt that way because  her claim for loss of rent 
had been declined and the excess hadnt been reduced. However,  it couldnt  find evidence  
that she had been treated badly or differently to any other customer.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Ns complaint, but she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. Miss N wasnt happy with the investigators  conclusions and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N is unhappy at the amount of the excess for subsidence claims being  £5,000.  An 
insurer is allowed to set the terms of a policy it is offering  based  on its commercial 
judgement. The excess was set at that level from the outset and Miss N chose to accept  the 
offer of a policy on that basis. I dont consider Aviva did anything  wrong  in setting the excess  
at this level. Miss N didnt receive  advice from Aviva to take the policy  and could have looked 
elsewhere for an alternative had she not been  happy with the excess.
I note Miss N has commented that many of the neighbours on the street  have excesses in 
the region of £1,000.  That is entirely plausible as that does  tend to be a typical excess  for a 
domestic policy for a property in which a policyholder lives. However, Miss Ns policy isnt a 
domestic one, its commercial. In addition,  as she has pointed  out, her property  has a history  
of subsidence.  Aviva has also commented that the property is in an area at higher risk of 
subsidence. These factors would indicate the property is likely to be a higher risk than 
average domestic property. Excesses  and premiums associated with a policy  will usually 
reflect any increased  risk factors and its not unreasonable for an insurer  to do so.
Ref: DRN72313973I would also comment that under the terms of property insurance policies, the excess 
payable isnt dependent on the cause of the subsidence or whether the policyholder could in 
some way be considered  responsible. The excess is payable  simply because there is a valid 
subsidence claim. Any decision about whether to attempt to recover the claim costs and any 
excess, is made by the insurer under its commercial discretion  and isnt something we would 
usually interfere with. 
Miss N has complained that she didnt receive loss of rent while she was unable to let the 
property because of the subsidence damage. The policy provides cover for loss of rent when  
the property is unable to be lived in because  of an insured peril having caused damage.
I have considered what Miss N has said about the property and the content  of the exchange  
with the local letting agent. I am not persuaded the property wasnt tenanted because it was 
not able to be lived in, but rather because it was not aesthetically  appealing to prospective 
tenants. So I dont  believe that it qualified for loss of rent to be paid to Miss N. 
Whilst I note that Aviva  incorrectly paid two months  of loss of rent early in the claim, I dont 
think this means that it had to continue to do so. Miss N benefitted from this mistake and I 
note that Aviva didnt  try to claim the money  back, so I dont think  shes suffered any 
detriment from the mistake that was made.
Aviva has accepted that Miss N didnt receive  the level of service  she should have in a 
telephone discussion  in February  2019  and I dont propose to comment on that further  as it 
has acknowledged the situation. However,  I am not persuaded  that, outside of this incident, 
there was a trend of poor or negative behaviour toward Miss N.
As for the issue of the repairs Miss N believes should have been  done as part of the 
subsidence claim, but were not, I cant agree. As our investigator explained, we rely on 
expert opinion  when reaching  our conclusions. The schedules of work  that were  drawn  up in 
February and March 2019 detailed the subsidence damage and the repairs  needed  to fix 
that damage. The schedules didnt, include the damage to the window cills and the crack 
beneath the bay window. This shows the damage  wasnt considered to have been caused  
by the subsidence and as such  Aviva wasnt responsible for repairing it. 
Although Miss N has said she was told these  works  were included,  I dont consider the 
evidence supports that being the case. She was provided with a schedule of works in 
February 2019 to show her what works  were  included  in the claim. That schedule  didnt 
include the works she has said were later deauthorised, so I cant  find that Aviva  did 
anything wrong  in this regard.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss N to accept or reject my decision before 
17 January 2021.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7231397