K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt  with a 
claim he made under his car insurance policy.
background
In August  2018,  Mr A parked his car in a car park. When he returned, he found  that his 
vehicle had been damaged. 
Mr A claimed on his car insurance policy. He wanted to use his own repairer  and got an 
estimate for repairing the damage. Advantage said it would  have to have the car inspected 
before it could authorise the repair and instructed an independent motor engineer. Mr A 
subsequently queried the damage to his windscreen. Advantage says the damage  to the left 
hand side of the door was listed by his repairer but the windscreen  damage wasnt  included,  
so it asked for an updated estimate.  Mr As repairer said the windscreen damage  wasnt 
related to the accident.  
Advantages independent engineer inspected  the vehicle and said that in its opinion the 
damages resulted  from two separate incidents.  It thought the damage to the left hand  side of 
the door was likely to be caused by impacting a low wall or similar object, but it thought  the 
windscreen crack was pre-existing likely from a stone chip.  
The engineer estimated  that the cost of repairing the left hand side of the door damage was 
£1,345.39. Advantage say Mr A has to pay an excess of £500 on accidental damage and 
make a separate claim  for the windscreen  damage  but this claim would  be subjective to its 
own excess of £85 (reduced to £25 if the window is repaired). 
Mr A complained to Advantage  about it treating the two areas of damage as separate claims 
with the result of him having  to pay excess twice. Mr A says he believes the incident  
happened at the same time because when  he left his car in the car park there was no 
damage, but when he returned the damage to the left hand  side of the door and windscreen 
were apparent. However, Advantage  considered it was justified  in treating the two areas of 
damage as separate claims in light of the independent engineers  report. 
Mr A was also unhappy with the service he received. Advantage  agreed  that there were 
times when  their call queues were long,  Mr A was on hold during calls for longer periods of 
time and it couldve communicated with him more frequently. So it offered  £50 compensation 
in recognition of this inconvenience. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with Advantages response so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and didnt think Advantage had done anything  
wrong so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A didnt agree with this and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.  He says he was having  issues  with his own repairer and the 
independent engineer spoke to his repairer  before completing its report, so he didnt  think  
the engineers  findings  were independent. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
Ref: DRN71712182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to him but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Mr A says he wasnt aware of any damage to his vehicle  before the incident  in the car park. 
So I can understand why he thinks the damage  in both areas  was caused in the car park.
However both the independent engineer and Mr As own repairer say that in their 
professional opinions the damage resulted from two separate incidents. They thought  it likely 
that the car park incident caused the damage  to the left hand side of the door, but not the 
windscreen damage which they think is pre-existing  with it likely to have been caused  by a 
stone chip.
In technical matters, we tend to place weight on expert opinions, if these are available.  In 
this case both the independent engineer  and Mr As own repairer consider that only the left 
hand side door damage was caused  by the car park incident. So based on the available  
evidence I think Advantage has treated Mr A fairly  in deciding the windscreen damage isnt 
related to the accident in the car park.  This means the damage would need to be treated as 
two separate claims if Mr A wants the windscreen repaired as well.
I note Mr A says he was having issues with his own repairer and the independent engineer 
spoke to his repairer,  so he didnt think the engineers findings were  independent.  I dont 
think its unreasonable for the independent  engineer to communicate with Mr As selected 
repairer when completing his report to be able to determine the costs for the repair.  
Advantage admits  its service could have been  better,  in particular for its long queue time,  
lengthy hold times and for not updating Mr A more frequently. For its poor service,  
Advantage offered £50 compensation. I think this is a fair and reasonable compensation in 
these circumstances.  
I recognise how stressful Mr A found  the experience and I know  this will be disappointing 
news for him. But taking  everything into account,  I think Advantage acted reasonably.  This 
means I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7171218