K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Close Brothers Limited, (trading as Close Brothers  Savings), 
closed a fixed term deposit account  early,  and that they missed out on interest  as a result.
background
Mr and Mrs A opened a three year fixed term deposit account  with Close  Brothers in 
December 2015.  But Close  Brothers closed the account in error in December 2016. Mr and 
Mrs A only discovered this in 2018.  They considered Close  Brothers should reimburse them  
for the interest they missed out on because the account was closed early.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It accepted  it had made  a mistake by closing the account early,  
but it considered  it wouldve been  reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to notice the money had 
been returned to them sooner than they were expecting. 
Close Brothers said it had also sent an annual interest statement to Mr and Mrs A in April 
2017, and this shouldve prompted them  to realise the account had been closed.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. Close Brothers  had made a 
mistake, and he considered Mr and Mrs A should be put back  into the position they wouldve 
been in if the mistake  hadnt happened.
Our investigator said Close Brothers should  reimburse Mr and Mrs A for the interest theyd 
missed out on, together with simple interest  at 8% per year.
Close Brothers didnt  agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Close Brothers  made a mistake by closing Mr and Mrs As account  
early. And our usual  approach is to make sure that the customer  is put back into the position  
they wouldve  been in if the mistake hadnt been made.
But Close Brothers  considers it wouldve been reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to realise that 
the account had been closed in error. And that as they were expecting  a similar sized  
payment from another account at the time the incorrect  repayment  was made, they received 
roughly double the amount they were expecting. Ive thought carefully about everything 
Close Brothers has said.
I accept that the payment from the account  closed in error was relatively large. But having 
reviewed the historic financial records Close Brothers holds for Mr and Mrs A, I think  its 
likely that the turnover on their current account could also be large. So Im not persuaded 
that it shouldve  been obvious  to them that theyd  received a payment in error.
Mr and Mrs A say the account  balance was paid to their current account and remained there  
until they realised  what  had happened. Their testimony has been consistent throughout the 
complaint, and Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that the money earned  any interest while  it was 
in Mr and Mrs As current account.
Ref: DRN75260852Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs As Close Brothers  account was fixed with a term of three  
years. So I dont think it was unreasonable for them to assume that once theyd paid in their 
money, it would  remain  there  for the full term.
Given the nature of the account,  I dont think it would be reasonable to expect them  to 
monitor the accounts activity in detail  during  the three year term. So Im not persuaded that 
they shouldve  realised from Close Brothers  annual interest statements that the account had 
been closed.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Close Brothers should reimburse Mr and 
Mrs A for the interest they lost when the account  was closed in error. It should also pay 
interest on that amount at the rate of 8% a year simple.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Close Brothers Limited, (trading as Close  
Brothers Savings) to:
1.pay Mr and Mrs A the interest  they shouldve received on the account from the actual 
date of closure to the date of closure under the account terms.
2.pay interest on that amount at the rate of 8% a year simple, from the date of closure 
under the account  terms to the date of settlement of the complaint.
Close Brothers must pay this compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mr and Mrs A accept  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income  
tax from the interest  elements of this award,  it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken 
off. It should  also give them  a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7526085