K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about how Legal  & General Insurance  Limited has handled  his building  
insurance claim and the amount they have paid in settlement. Because LG are now trading 
as Fairmead Insurance Limited I have referred to them as Fairmead throughout.
background
In early 2018, after his property  had suffered external damage,  Mr E made a claim for storm 
damage. His insurance brokers notified  the claim on 1 February, enclosing a signed 
mandate, giving  them  authority to act on behalf  of Mr E. Fairmead  set up the claim on 7 
February, providing a claim  reference  number.
Mr E said that on 18 February, Fairmead  told his brokers they couldnt find any record of his 
claim or policy.  By 28 February, Fairmead said they now had Mr Es claim set up and the 
brokers sent another signed mandate the same day.
By mid-March, Fairmead told the brokers the claim was under review. Fairmeads claim 
handler sent Mr E a new claim  reference number and said they were awaiting an update  
from their underwriters. On 23 March,  Fairmead  said there was a query about the propertys 
business use. They also said the claim had been  logged twice in error and was on hold until 
some checks had been made and they could  confirm  they could go ahead with the claim.
On 29 March, a surveyor  from a company appointed by Fairmead (BVS) met Mr Es builder. 
He confirmed the claim was valid. He said it would  cost £12,000-£15,000  to provide 
scaffolding to carry out the repairs.  The builder  sent a schedule  of estimated repair costs to 
BVS in early April.  The builder's initial estimate  was £39,272 plus VAT.
After some delay, BVS said they couldnt  go ahead as the claim was a commercial  one. And 
after being  chased, Fairmead told the insurance  brokers they needed  proof Mr E owned the 
whole building. This was provided to Fairmead the same day. Then BVS said Fairmead  had 
decided to work with BVS on the claim after all.
After receiving a report of the estimated  costs,  Fairmead decided  to appoint  loss adjusters 
(DG) to handle the claim.  DG visited and surveyed  the property.  DG confirmed the claim was 
valid and discussed  the figures already submitted  to BVS. They took photos,  videos, notes,  
and measurements.  They  also indicated scaffolding  costs  would be a large part of the claim. 
In mid-May,  DGs loss adjuster working  on Mr Es claim had a discussion with DGs loss 
adjuster working  on a claim  on the neighbouring building, (K). The two loss adjustors 
decided to erect scaffolding across the roof of both buildings, so surveyors  and engineers  
could gain access, and work could be started. Fairmead also agreed that K could take over 
the management of both claims  as they were  neighbouring  buildings. Over the next 10 
weeks, work went ahead on Mr E's property. The scaffolding was dismantled  on 30 July.
On 29 June, K made an offer of £18,000 for the building repairs  element of Mr Es claim. The 
offer was rejected as insufficient. The builder provided a revised  estimate of £32,914 plus 
VAT and all invoices were passed  to K. On 10 July, K made  a revised  offer of £28,000. The 
insurance brokers accepted this on Mr Es behalf  in full and final settlement  of Mr Es claim. 
They said payment expected was £28,000 less the excess  of £100 (£27,900)  plus VAT at 
20% (£5,580) = £33,480. K sent her final report to Fairmead on 31 July.
Ref: DRN73850692By September,  Fairmead still hadnt  paid out in settlement. They  said they were  waiting for 
another report from DG. On 5 October, Fairmead  issued a cheque for £15,778.02 and told 
Mr Es brokers it was an interim payment. But then they said they didn't agree with the 
amount DG had offered Mr E. And said K shouldn't  have agreed a settlement. So, Fairmead 
said the £15,778.02 was in full and final settlement. But they would offer Mr E something for 
distress and inconvenience.
In November, in their final response  letter,  Fairmead acknowledged that Mr E was unhappy. 
They said theyd reduced their original offer after a detailed review  of the work needed on 
the damage. And their final offer was right because the repair schedule included a lot of work 
and costs beyond  what was needed  to repair the damaged covered under Mr Es policy.
But Fairmead also accepted that Mr E hadnt received good  service and apologised. They 
recognised thered been unnecessary delays. And they hadnt kept him or his representative  
updated. To acknowledge his loss of expectation and the distress  and inconvenience, 
Fairmead offered  Mr E compensation of £200. Mr E was unhappy with this response.
DG then did a further review of the damage to Mr Es property and the cost of the works 
carried out. Despite  Mr Es insurance brokers chasing Fairmead several  times  in January, 
February and March 2019, they didnt receive  a response.
On 28 March 2019, Mr Es brokers wrote  to Fairmead to complain. They  said Mr E had 
accepted the initial  offer in good faith and was unhappy with the substantial delays. They 
said he shouldnt have  to suffer  because of a difference of opinion  between Fairmead and 
their loss adjusters.  On the same  day, Mr E complained to us. He asked that the original 
settlement offer be honoured. This means Fairmead  would pay him a further  £17,701.98. 
In October  2019, our investigator set out his view.  He said Fairmead  had given no 
explanation as to why DGs  offer had been withdrawn or how their reduced second offer had 
been calculated.  And he didnt think the reduction  was fair. He thought the original  offer was 
made, and accepted, in good faith,  and work was completed on that basis. He thought 
Fairmead should make a further payment to bring  the settlement to the figure originally 
agreed. He also said Fairmead should pay 8% interest for the period between  DG submitting 
its original report to Fairmead and the date that Mr E was paid the balance  of the original 
offer, to compensate him for the time he's been out of pocket. 
Fairmead didnt agree,  so the case has come  to me for a final decision. Fairmead explained 
that they think the amount  charged for scaffolding was excessive, that Construction Design 
Management (or CDM) fees of £650 shouldnt  have been necessary and that there was 
insufficient evidence  to show the insulation  at Mr Es property needed replacing at a cost of 
£1,230.31.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Delay
In this case, there were delays in setting  up the claim leading to duplicated  efforts,  a lost 
claim reference and a second reference number. And a surveyor only visited Mr Es property 
two months after hed first notified  Fairmead  of his claim. Plus, L&Gs  second  offer through  
DG was reduced three and half months  after it had been accepted, and this was 
Ref: DRN73850693communicated to Mr E while works  were  actually being carried  out. And there  were  multiple 
attempts by Mr Es insurance  brokers to get information out of Fairmead before and during 
the handling of his complaint, and right up to the date he brought  his complaint to us.
Fairmead doesnt dispute this. They recognised  there  were  several unnecessary  delays in 
assessing Mr Es claim. And they said hadnt  kept him or his insurance brokers  properly 
updated. They acknowledged that hed received poor service. They apologised and offered 
him £200 for distress and inconvenience. And, although Mr E rejected  this offer,  I think its 
only fair that he receives some compensation for all this. So, I think Fairmead  should  pay Mr 
E £300 for all the delays he suffered.
Reduced offer
The loss adjuster, DG, visited Mr Es property  as Fairmeads agent,  together with the builder. 
DG examined the site in detail and pronounced the claim valid, identified all the work 
required and agreed a settlement with Mr E. I can see DG made  an offer of £28,000, less the 
excess of £100,  to Mr E on 10 July. And the brokers accepted this on behalf of Mr E.
I think this offer was made, and accepted, in good  faith and that repair works went ahead  on 
this basis. But when  the works  began no offer had been made. Then  the first offer of 
£18,000 was rejected.  And the works  were  nearly completed by the time the second offer of 
£28,000 was made.  Ive seen nothing to suggest anyone  told Mr E he could go ahead on the 
basis of the estimate  provided when the works  started. So, I dont think  Mr E was relying on 
the offer to press ahead, and I dont think he was prejudiced  by the change  in offer. So, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to make Fairmead honour DGs offer because  no 
prejudice occurred  to Mr E.
But looking  at the work done, Ive considered the deductions  made  by Fairmead  which led 
them to reduce the settlement offer. The £12,300  for scaffolding costs  seems very high. So, I 
think Fairmead should look again  at why the contractor has charged so much for scaffolding. 
And then reconsider  the claim  for these costs.  
Theres also the £650 for CDM fees. Fairmead  discounted these because  they said the claim 
wasnt notifiable. (This refers to the scale of the works carried  out.) But I think these fees 
should be reconsidered too and Fairmead needs to establish whether they did have to be 
paid and then reconsider Mr Es claim for them in light of this.
Fairmead also removed  £1,230.031  for replacement  of insulation as they said this wasnt  
fully evidenced.  But, based on what DGs loss adjuster  has said in her report about covering 
it, and the fact that the builder confirmed  it had become saturated  and needed replacing  in 
his own report in the first place, I think that would be fair and reasonable for Fairmead to pay 
for the costs of this.
So, I think Fairmead should look into these points again, as well as into any other evidence 
their further  investigation  reveals and then reconsider  the amount they should pay Mr E.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr Es brokers responded with a number of points  on his behalf.
In relation to the scaffolding, they said they couldnt disclose any figures  as to costs for the 
adjoining property  but confirmed the scaffolding costs had been shared 50/50 between  the 
Ref: DRN73850694two jobs. They said all initial estimates  had been  between £12,000 and £15,000  plus VAT. 
Because both buildings are very high and on the main street,  a sophisticated  arrangement of 
cantilevered structures  had been  required. They also said the insurers for the adjoining  
property had accepted the scaffolding costs, that the adjoining works had been  overseen by 
DGs surveyor and the scaffolding costs had already been reduced by 15% by negotiation.
In relation to the CDM  Fees, they said the works were notifiable  and this cost was 
necessarily incurred as the builder  had to register both jobs and obtain two permits  from the 
local council. Again, they said these  costs had already been reduced by 15% by negotiation.
In relation to the replacement of insulation,  they said this had been  necessary, as evidenced 
by both the loss adjuster and builder. Once again,  it had already been  reduced by 15% by 
negotiation.
They thought the full amount of £17,701.98 plus VAT at 20%, plus 8% interest since  the date 
the money should have been paid and should be paid to Mr E now.  They also asked that the 
compensation be increased  to reflect the length  of the delays caused by Fairmead better.
Fairmead replied with a number of points of their own.
In relation to the scaffolding, Fairmead  said the 50/50 split on costs over the two claims was 
disproportionate. They provided a photograph of the extent of the scaffolding across  the two 
buildings and explained  that Mr Es building is the smaller, lower property to the left. 
Fairmead also said they werent aware of an agreement to split these costs 50/50.
In relation to the CDM  fees, Fairmead acknowledged that compliance with this was 
mandatory whether  the claim was notifiable or not. They  said costs associated  with 
managing CDM are built into their contractor rates. And they add an additional sum if the 
project is notifiable  as health and safety  considerations  are more time-consuming to 
manage. They accepted  they can contribute to this and do so on tendered or rateable works  
which are notifiable to the HSE. But if the criteria arent met then the project  is non-notifiable. 
And said the criteria hadnt  been  met here. They also said that if theyd been able to proceed 
on rates  they wouldnt have paid an extra fee. They also said thered been no delays.
In the interests  of settlement,  Fairmead agreed to cover the replacement of the insulation , if 
further evidence  of necessity could be provided or, if not, pay 50% without such  evidence as 
a compromise.
Fairmead also agreed to pay £300  in compensation to Mr B. Though werent  sure whether I 
was suggesting  they should pay this in total or in addition to the £200  theyd already paid.
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Ref: DRN73850695In terms of the scaffolding , notwithstanding the photograph of the properties  I was sent, I 
think that a 50/50  split on costs had been  agreed.  Though Fairmead have said they were 
unaware of this arrangement, Ive seen confirmation that a 50/50 split was agreed between  
DGs loss adjuster, K, and the other  insurer on 14 August 2018. So, I think Fairmead should 
honour that part of the agreement. And I direct  that they pay 50% of the cost of the 
scaffolding.
In terms of the CDM fees, I accept that Fairmead  feels that if theyd  used their own 
contractor, or agreed rates, theyd  have expected them to cover any fees and not add them 
on. But I think it was the delays caused by Fairmead which meant  that Mr E had little choice 
but to go ahead when he did and use his own contractor. And I think  it would be difficult  to 
see how Fairmead could  justify not paying these fees. So, I direct Fairmead to pay the CDM 
fees of £650.
I also note Fairmead has agreed to cover the replacement of the insulation with further  
evidence of damage provided or, without, pay 50% as a compromise. But I think theres 
already been enough  evidence of this damage  provided in the past without  the need to 
demonstrate anything further, as I explained in my provisional decision.  So, I direct Fairmead 
to cover the costs of the insulation in full.
I also note Fairmead has agreed to pay a total figure of £300 in compensation  to Mr B. I 
think this is fair and I direct that they do so.
my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that Fairmead should:
pay 50% of the cost of the scaffolding;
pay the £650 CDM fees;
pay the full £1,230.31  costs of the insulation; and
pay Mr E £300 in total for the delays he suffered.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7385069