K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complained she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
by Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mrs M took out the PPI in November  2005  when she applied for a credit card. BoS said the 
sale took place  during  a meeting and that Mrs M was advised to take the cover. Mrs M said 
the sale took place by phone, with the paperwork sent out afterwards.  She complained about 
a number of aspects of the sale, but in summary  she said she wasnt  given a choice about 
taking the PPI, she wasnt given enough  information about it and it wasnt  suitable for her. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs M had successfully claimed  on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application and agreement. These  show branch 
details, and from whats on the documents Im satisfied that Mrs M took out the card and PPI 
in a branch of the bank  rather  than over the phone. 
The application page shows a cross in a box to say that Mrs M wanted PPI (but no cross in a 
second box relating  to another  insurance product). The cross  was pre-printed  but so was 
all of the information on the form, including  Mrs Ms income and employment  details. So I 
think its likely that the form was printed out after a discussion with the adviser  and that the 
PPI formed part of that discussion. The agreement   on a separate  page  - shows a tick in a 
box and Mrs Ms signature to say she wanted  the PPI  and this is separate  from her 
signature for the credit card itself.  Taking all this into account, I think  its more likely than not 
that Mrs M was given a choice about whether to take the PPI and that she agreed  to it - and 
probably just doesnt remember  doing  so after all this time.
I can also see from the information that BoS provided that the PPI was cancelled  at Mrs Ms 
request in May 2006, although  Mrs M kept the credit card for another  three years or so. 
Mrs M has mentioned feeling pressured to take out the PPI, and Ive carefully considered 
what she told us. Im satisfied that BoS advised  her to take out the policy.  So its possible 
that what Mrs M might have remembered as pressure to take the policy was, instead, a 
recommendation that she should take it. Having reviewed the evidence, I dont consider that 
theres enough for me to say that pressure  was exerted on Mrs M to take the PPI. 
Ref: DRN79095692Because BoS advised Mrs M to take out the PPI, it had to make sure that the cover was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
BoS sent in a copy of the demands and needs statement from the sale (this also included  a 
policy summary). As the sale took place in a meeting  I cant know  how the adviser  verbally 
explained the PPI, or the things not covered by the policy (although the main  exclusions 
were briefly  described in the policy summary). But I cant  see that Mrs M wouldve been  
affected by any of these.  
Mrs M said she would have  been  entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months full 
pay and six months half pay. She also said she could  have relied on help from family and 
friends if necessary.  But circumstances can change,  and I dont think such help couldve 
been guaranteed. So I think  she couldve found  it difficult to make  the monthly payments on 
the card once her sick pay reduced or if shed lost her job  and Ive kept in mind that the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim and in addition to her employee 
benefits. So I dont  think there was anything  wrong  with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs M. As Ive said, I cant  
know how the adviser explained  the policy, or at what  point  Mrs M mightve been given the 
policy summary or the full policy document. I can see that some cost information  was 
included in the demands and needs statement, so I think its likely that the cost was 
discussed in some way. But its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think more  detailed information about  the 
cost and benefits wouldve changed  her decision to take the policy. It couldve provided 
useful protection  if shed  been unable to work. 
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs M 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7909569