K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about a 'key facts' document produced by Strathearn Insurance 
Services Limited (SISL) in relation to a property  deposit bond.
In summary,  Mrs B says that SISL failed to disclose material information and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the 'key facts' document. She says that she decided  to invest in 
a property investment  scheme (Scheme A) based solely upon the respective 'key facts' 
document. The scheme failed, and Mrs B lost her capital. She says that had the full facts 
and risk disclosures been made in the 'key facts'  documents,  she would not have invested  in 
the scheme and suffered this financial loss.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint. A copy  is attached  
and forms part of this decision.
Mr B representing Mrs B responded to accept my provisional decision. He also clarified the 
amount Mrs B received from Scheme A.
SISL did not accept  the provisional decision. Its representative said, in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by this 
service in the jurisdiction  decision  in a similar case. Notwithstanding  this, it does not 
accept that Mrs B falls within the ordinary meaning of a client. There  was no retainer 
of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by the consumer to SISL.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of the 
IPIN network tend to be high net worth/sophisticated  investors  who are familiar with 
property club type investments.  SISL understood that the IPIN members had self-
certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making investments of this 
nature and they invested via IPIN because they sought a high rate of return, 
something which is inevitably associated  with increased level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, 
IPIN and potentially, independent financial advisers and that is something that 
needed to be taken into account.  
The provisional decision appears  to regard the key facts document  as if it had 
either been  a policy  summary or key features document as defined the FCA 
Handbook. It is actually initial  disclosure document  (IDD)  and should be treated as 
such. It is unfair to judge the IDD against the standard  of another  type of document 
which it never purported to be.
It cannot be said that Mrs B relied  on the key facts  document as it appears  quite  
possible that if the same bond had been  in place and she was told of the bond but 
the key facts document had not been present, she would still have gone ahead  
with the scheme.
Ref: DRN75587252Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that the 
settlement set out in my provisional decision represents fair compensation.
It seems  to me that a lot of points raised  by SISL  were already considered  by me in the 
provisional decision. So I dont think there is much more to add to what I have already said.  
However, for completeness, I have gone  through again here what  in my view are the key 
points raised by SISLs representative in response to my provisional  decision.
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said Mrs B wasnt  its customer, the deposit 
protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any regulated 
activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case. So I do not want to repeat those  findings  here.  I remain of the view that 
this complaint is within our jurisdiction  for the reasons I mentioned in my provisional 
decision. I will however  address  the point raised  by SISL following my provisional decision in 
this regard.  
SISL says that Mrs B does not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client, there was no 
retainer of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by her to SISL.
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook
DISP2.7.1R  states:
"A complaint  may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman  Service if it is brought by 
or on behalf of an eligible complainant."
An eligible complainant  is defined by DISP 2.7.3R  as including a consumer, which 
means  "any natural  person  acting for purposes outside  his trade, business  or profession ".
DISP  2.7.6R  further  states:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which  arises from matters 
relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1)the complainant is (or was) a customer.. of the respondent
(2)the complainant is (or was) a potential customer of the respondent
Ref: DRN75587253     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose  benefit a contract of insurance was taken out or was 
intended to be taken out with or through the respondent "
Mrs B was a beneficiary under a contract of insurance. And for the reasons already 
explained, I am satisfied  that the contract of insurance was taken through SISL. So I 
consider that Mrs B is an eligible  complainant  under DISP 2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Mrs B but often insurance brokers are 
paid commission by the insurer and that is what had happened here. SISL was paid 
commission by the insurer NWIC.  As stated in the key facts  document  the commission  was 
about 11% of the premium, paid by the developer to NWIC. As I understand it, the premium 
in turn was 2.25%  of the deposit  paid by Mrs B. Of this, 2% was retained by NWIC and 
0.25% was paid as commission  to SISL.  
In addition, I also consider  that Mrs B is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(2)R.    It 
may be that there  was no retainer of SISL by Mrs B but I am satisfied that she was a 
potential customer of SISL and therefore eligible complainants  under the DISP rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance intermediary offered its services to potential 
customers. It said in the key facts document: Due to the regulated nature of the product 
offered, any direct questions relating  specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES offering 
should be directed to Strathearn Insurance using the contact  details below ..
It further  said:   The FSA requires you to be provided with this information. Use this 
information to decide if our services are right for you..
It also referred  to our service  in the event  of any complaint  and to the FSCS  in the 
event  SISL  could  not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied  that SISL  envisaged  the 
recipients  of the key facts  document  of the specific  schemes  as its potential  
customers.  
It may be that Mrs B did not eventually approach SISL but SISL made  its services  available  
to her in its capacity as the regulated firm. And as noted earlier,  SISL was paid commission  
in relation to the deposits made, whether or not the respective  investors contacted it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Mrs B was a potential customers of SISL and 
therefore eligible  complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
relevant considerations
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Ref: DRN75587254Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes  potential client (and so potential customer). 
Mrs B was a potential customer,  and her complaint is essentially about what  SISL 
communicated (or failed  to communicate)  to her through the key facts document.  So, I 
consider that Principle  7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance, which  says:  "A firm must  pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
IPIN provided Mrs B with a promotional literature about the scheme. It was called the 
Investment Analysis Document (IAD).  The IAD stated that the bond would protect the full 
amount of the deposit in the event of a contractual default by the developer. Investors  were  
referred to a Key Facts document  produced by SISL, which was included  in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Page 22 is where  SISLs key facts document  can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided the key facts document for the IAD, it knew that the 
consumers were being referred to the key facts for information about  the bond.  So SISL 
had an obligation  to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear,  fair, 
and not misleading.
was the information provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I remain  of the view that that SISL  did 
not provide clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the insurance  in its key facts  
document provided to Mrs B.
SISL says that what it provided was an Initial Disclosure Document. However  I note that 
this document  was referred to as a key facts  document by SISL  itself on more  than 
occasion. The IAD also refers to it as a key facts  document and not as an Initial  Disclosure 
Document.   
In any event, as I explained  in the provisional decision, this key facts document was 
clearly intended  as the source of information  about the bond for potential customers  
thinking about investing in the schemes  and SISL was aware  of it. So I consider that 
SISL had an obligation to ensure that this communication was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
did Mrs B rely on the key facts document?  
Ref: DRN75587255Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading,  I 
need to consider how much reliance Mrs B placed  on this document  before she decided  to 
make the relevant investment.
For the reasons  explained my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude that 
Mrs B looked at what SISL  stated in the key facts document about the bond, and relied on it 
when she decided to proceed with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club type investments.  It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  informed decision. 
On the other hand, Mrs B says that she has very little investment experience.  At the 
time of her investment Mrs B was a housewife, and as I understand she has been so for the 
majority of the last thirty years. She says she was looking for a safe investment with a fairly  
high return. Because of this, the security offered by the insurance was crucial in her 
decision-making. She decided to place  the money  she had intended to use as a buy-to-let 
deposit into investments  with IPIN,  because her understanding  was that her funds would be 
protected from loss, but also had the opportunity  for high growth rates.  
In my view the issue here is not so much  about consumers net worth or their 
knowledge of the investment (i.e., the property scheme  opportunities) but about the 
insurance that was intended to offer protection should something go wrong with the 
investment. To that extent, I accept  that Mrs B was not expert enough to understand the 
intricacies of the insurance product - for example the solvency of the insurer  or whether 
they would  be eligible  for FSCS protection should  something happen  to the insurer. This 
is more so as the insurer  was based overseas. So I do not consider it unreasonable 
when she says that she relied  on SISLs information  in relation to the bond.  
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  
their lawyers, IPIN and potentially other  independent  financial advisers,  and that is 
something the investigator failed to take into account. 
I have considered what SISL  has said and I am not persuaded  by it. As previously 
mentioned, in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential investors 
towards SISL for information about the bond and not to other professionals.  As I 
understand it, IPIN was concerned that it or other related companies should not provide 
information or advice  in relation to the insurance as they were  not authorised by the 
FCA in that regard. This was why SISL  was brought in to handle  that part of the 
scheme. 
Also, as noted  earlier, the key facts  document / IAD recommended that consumers 
seek independent advice on the investment proposals and contract.  However for 
information about the bond they were  directed to seek  information from SISL. 
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond. So I am doubtful whether the potential investors 
would have been directed  to other professional  people for information  or advice about 
the bond. 
Nevertheless, even if it is the case that Mrs B considers that another professional also 
failed her in their obligations,  then it is up to her to decide whether  she wants to take 
Ref: DRN75587256action against  either  or both. In my view, even if another professional  was involved 
concerning the bond, that does not absolve SISL of the obligations it owed to its 
customers or potential customers. Mrs B considers that SISL failed in its obligations to 
her and she is entitled to bring that complaint of hers about SISL to us, which she has 
done. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says 
that the schedule provided the name and address of the insurance company and so 
Mrs B ought  to have  known that the insurer was an overseas insurer.  
Firstly, Im mindful  that SISLs key facts document was produced as part of the pre-sale 
literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over after the investment had been 
arranged and monies paid over. And in any event, the document also did not highlight the 
risks involved adequately - for example,  they did not highlight  the lack of FSCS protection. 
SISL has also argued that Mrs B would still have invested even  if the key facts 
document had not been provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit bond was in 
place.
IPIN directed the potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information about 
NWIC and the insurance protection it provided. 
In the key facts  document  SISL clearly gave  the impression that it was the expert  and it 
told the consumers  that they accept the policy  as it was designed to work specifically 
with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors". 
As it happened, the insurer failed. Had the key facts document  provided  the 
appropriate warnings  about the insurer then I do not think that Mrs B would have gone 
ahead with the scheme.  
In other  words, that the bond was in place isnt just the reason why Mrs B invested  in 
the scheme. She invested in the scheme with the belief that the bond would satisfy her 
needs (i.e., protection of her capital)  and I consider that SISLs key facts document  
which provided information about  the bond  played  a key role in leading her to believe 
so.
The bond  cannot be considered in a vacuum.  It seems to me that to understand whether 
or not Mrs B most likely  relied on the key facts document, it is necessary to first 
understand the features  of the overall  scheme.  Then consider the role played by the 
deposit bond within that scheme. And then go on to consider what information was 
provided in relation to that product and whether  the consumer relied on that information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within the wider context of the investment - to be 
clear - the key question  I have considered is what the consumer has complained  about  - 
which is about the key facts document  provided by the SISL.  
summary
In summary  I find that:
When Mrs B decided  to invest in the property scheme she was looking for a low risk 
investment with potential for good  growth. 
Ref: DRN75587257The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Mrs Bs risk appetite. 
However the security  of capital was provided  through the bond. 
Given her risk appetite, I am satisfied that Mrs B would have wanted to consider the 
information provided in relation to that bond  before  deciding to invest in the scheme. She 
was directed to look into SISLs  key facts document for information about the bond. So I 
consider it reasonable to conclude that she relied on that information along  with SISLs 
recommendation that she accept the policy in deciding to invest in the scheme. 
SISL knew or ought to have known that it was its key facts  document that potential 
investors were directed to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to 
ensure that the key facts  document was clear, fair and not misleading. For the reasons 
already explained, the key facts did not provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. Mrs B has suffered a loss as a result. 
I consider it more likely than not that had SISL  provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the risks involved with the bond,  she would not have invested in the 
schemes. So it is fair that SISL compensate her for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs B 
in the position she would  have been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the 
bond - which  was the key component of the SES - been explained clearly,  it is more likely 
than not that Mrs B wouldnt have invested  in the SES scheme at all.
I am satisfied Mrs B was looking  to invest her money, so I think she would  have invested  
elsewhere, but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what  she would have 
done differently.  But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair, given her objective  
for growth  with capital  protection.
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  the business should calculate the position Mrs B would now be 
in if her investments  had produced a return matching the average rate for fixed  rate bonds 
with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view Mrs B wanted  to achieve a 
reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. The average  rate would be a fair 
measure given her circumstances and objective. It does not mean  that Mrs B would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The compensation payable to Mrs B is the difference  between  the fair value and the actual 
value of their investment  If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable.
Ref: DRN75587258actual value
This means  the amount  received by Mrs B out of the scheme.  
Any amount  received by Mrs B from the scheme  should be deducted from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that 
point on.
It is not clear  whether  at all Mrs B would receive any further  disbursement from Scheme A. It 
seems unlikely. However, SISL  could take ownership of the investment if it wishes  to, 
provided Mrs B agrees. If it is not possible for SISL to take ownership, then it may request an 
undertaking from Mrs B that she repays  to SISL any amount  she may receive from the 
investment in future.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
The calculation should be made from the date of investment to date of my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance  Services  Limited  should  pay to Mrs B the fair 
compensation as set out above.  It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this 
amount from date of decision  to date of settlement, if compensation is not paid within  
28 days of the business  being  notified of acceptance. Income tax may be payable on this 
interest payment.  
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mrs B in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarah Holmes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75587259Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs Bs complaint  is about a 'key facts'  document produced by Strathearn Insurance Services Limited 
(SISL) in relation  to a property deposit bond.
In summary, Mrs B says that SISL  failed to disclose  material information  and provide appropriate risk 
warnings in the 'key facts 'document. She says that she decided to invest in a property investment 
scheme (Scheme A) based solely upon the respective  'key facts' document. The scheme  failed, and 
Mrs B lost her capital. She says that had the full facts and risk disclosures been made in the 'key 
facts' documents, she would not have invested in the scheme and suffered this financial loss.
background
Mrs B is a member of IPIN Global Prospects Network (IPIN).  This is an investment network which 
aims to provide real estate schemes  to its members. IPIN is the trading  name  of a Spanish company 
 Global  Prospects S.L. 
IPIN typically marketed  its schemes  as secure exit strategies (SES). As I understand it, under this 
strategy, the investors funded property developments such as hotels, student accommodation and 
residential care homes  by way of a deposit. The deposits were  initially sent to a lawyer  where they 
were maintained within an escrow facility. The developer  would draw  the deposit down, when needed, 
to finance the project. The property units would be sold by the developer  before a set date and the 
investor would  get their deposit back, along with a share of any profits  from the sale.
A key characteristic of SES schemes was the protection offered to the investors for their deposits. 
This was provided by the property developer  entering into an insurance contract  with an insurer.
So, if a project  failed  or the developer defaulted, the investors  - who were named  as the beneficiaries 
of the insurance  contract - could claim any difference between the deposit paid and any money 
already returned to them.
The deposits  held in escrow facility could  be drawn down  by the developer  only after they had put this 
insurance in place  for each scheme. This insurance was called the Property Deposit Bond ('the bond'). 
Mrs B's complaint against  SISL is in relation to this insurance product.
Mrs B invested  in Scheme  A in October  2012,  paying a deposit of £55,000. 
An insurer based in Nevis,  Northern & Western Insurance Company  (NWIC) underwrote the bond.  
Unfortunately, the company behind  Scheme  A went into liquidation.  Mrs B received no payment from 
the property  developer, so attempted to claim against the bond. However, NWIC itself entered 
liquidation in January  2015, leaving Mrs B out of pocket. So Mrs B contacted  the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme  (FSCS). But because NWIC was not regulated  by the FCA,  it was also not 
covered by the FSCS. 
Mrs B complained to SISL that its literature was misleading and its advice to her (contained within  that 
literature) had been poor. She says she went ahead with the investment solely  on the basis of the 
information and recommendations  provided by SISL in its key facts  document. But SISL failed to 
explain the risks and limitations involved, especially that the insurance  company was based offshore, 
meaning there was no recourse  through the FSCS, should it fail.
SISL responded saying, in summary, that Mrs B was not its customer  and that the property  bond was 
not, strictly an insurance  product, but a financial guarantee and the purchaser  of the bond was not 
Mrs B. It also denied giving Mrs B any advice.
Ref: DRN755872510As the complaint was not resolved, Mrs B has brought it to us. 
my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the 
reasons set out below. 
can we consider the complaint?
SISL has previously objected to this service considering  this complaint, and a number of others 
similar to it. Briefly, it has said Mrs B wasnt its customer, the deposit protection  insurance wasnt a 
regulated product and that it did not carry out any regulated activity.  
This was considered at length  by us in another similar case  and SISL recognises that the jurisdiction 
issues that are relevant to this case have  been  considered  in the jurisdiction decision in that case. So 
I do not want  to repeat that here. However, for avoidance of doubt - I am satisfied that this complaint 
is within our jurisdiction. In summary I consider  that: 
(a) The property deposit bonds about which the consumers have complained are contracts  of 
insurance. 
(b) SISL carried out the regulated  activity  of arranging  (bringing about) deals in investments and/or 
making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
(c) Mrs B is an eligible complainant.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes  of practice; and, where  appropriate, 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.
The FCA handbook sets out the Principles  which are a general statement  of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer  and it includes  potential client (and so potential  customer). 
Mrs B was a potential customer, and her complaint is essentially  about what SISL communicated (or 
failed to communicate) to her through the key facts  document.  So, I consider that Principle 7 is 
relevant here.
I also consider  that Principle  6 is relevant in this instance, which  says: "A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
IPIN provided Mrs B with a promotional literature  about  the scheme. It was called the Investment 
Analysis Document (IAD). The IAD stated that the bond would protect  the full amount of the deposit in 
the event of a contractual default by the developer.  Investors  were  referred to a Key Facts document  
produced by SISL, which was included  in the IAD.
Ref: DRN755872511The IAD said:
"The property  deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Page 22 is where SISLs key facts document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided  the key facts document for the IAD, it knew that the 
consumers were  being referred  to the key facts for information about the bond.  So SISL had an 
obligation to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear, fair, and not misleading.
was the information  provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
Mrs B says it was not. She says:
the key facts document reassured her as it said the policy was recommended  by an FCA 
regulated business  (SISL);
SISL did not make  clear that the insurer was not regulated by the FCA,  and not covered  by the 
FSCS; and
this led her to believe  that her money would be protected, under the usual consumer protections. 
If SISL made it clear this wasnt the case, she wouldnt have  invested.  
Having considered  everything, I am minded to agree that the information  provided in the key facts 
document was not clear  or fair; and was misleading.  
There is no mention in the key facts that the insurer was NWIC. The document does not say that 
NWIC was outside  FCA regulations. And there was no warning that should NWIC fail to meet its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  
Also, considering that this was the document that the consumers were referred to in the marketing 
literature for explanation about the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it explained  the key 
terms and conditions  of the policy but that wasnt the case. So I consider that the information  wasnt 
clear.
Further, the key facts document  said: "Strathearn Insurance  recommends that you accept this policy, 
as it is designed to work specifically  with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors ".
However, it did not highlight the potential risks as noted earlier. I consider that failing to balance its 
recommendation to potential customers to accept the policy with explanation  of the potential risks meant 
that the information  was presented in a misleading, and not in a fair way.
Overall, I consider that SISL did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the 
insurance in its key facts document provided  to Mrs B.
did Mrs B rely on the key facts  document?
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need to 
consider how much reliance Mrs B placed on this document before  she decided to make the relevant  
investment.
Mrs B says she relied solely on the key facts document before making  her decision  to invest. To 
determine the likelihood of this, I have considered what it was she was looking for when she decided 
to invest  in Scheme A. 
Ref: DRN755872512At the time of her investment, Mrs B was a housewife; as I understand she has been for the majority 
of the last thirty years. She says she has very little investment experience,  but in 2012 was looking  for 
a buy-to-let property.  A friend  of Mrs Bs husband had introduced Mrs B to IPIN previously, and she 
attended an event where its investment opportunities were discussed. Mrs B has said she was 
looking for a safe investment  with a fairly high return.  Because of this, the security offered by the 
insurance was crucial  in her decision making. She decided to place  the money  she had intended to 
use as a buy-to-let  deposit  into investments with IPIN, because her understanding was that her funds 
would be protected from loss, but also had the opportunity for high growth  rates.  
Property schemes generally have potential for higher returns.  So I can see why Mrs B considered them,  
given she was looking  to increase her funds  in the medium term. On the other hand,  they tend to involve 
a higher level of risk and that would not be suitable  for Mrs Bs capital safety objective. However, in this 
instance the schemes were  marketed as  low risk exposure and it is clear from the promotional  
literature that the protection offered through the bond was a key selling point  to convince the consumers 
that the schemes were  indeed low risk. So, given  her objective  and circumstances, I am persuaded  
that Mrs B would not have considered investing in the schemes  without the protection  offered by the 
bond.
So the next question I have to consider is whether Mrs B relied on SISLs key facts document  for 
information about the bond before deciding to invest in the scheme.
It seems to me that to understand whether or not Mrs B most likely relied on the key facts  
document, it is necessary  to first understand the features of the overall  scheme. Then consider the 
role played  by the deposit  bond  within that scheme. And then go on to consider what  information  
was provided  in relation  to that product and whether the consumers relied on that information. 
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within  the wider  context of the investment  - to be clear  - the 
key question I have considered is what the consumer has complained about - which  is about the 
key facts document provided by the SISL.  
It seems to me that when  Mrs B was provided with the marketing literature she would  want  to look at 
the information concerning  the bond to ensure  that it meets her objective. And IPIN directed potential 
investors, like Mrs B, to SISLs key facts document for information about  the insurance. The key 
facts/IAD said: 
 Due to the regulated  nature  of the product  offered,  any direct questions relating specifically  to the 
bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  Insurance.  
This clearly portrays SISL as the entity that potential  investors  needed to look to for information  about  
the bond.  And SISL described itself in the key facts  as a specialised  advisory  services company 
dedicated to residential and commercial real estate markets. SISL also said The companys  
solutions are supported by leading international speciality  insurance groups. 
And SISL went on to state in the key facts:
"What services will Strathearn  Insurance provide you with?
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy, as it is designed to work specifically 
with the investment proposal developed  for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn Insurance does not offer 
advice on the SES investment proposal, the associated contracts or their interpretation.
You are recommended to obtain independent legal  advice on all associated contracts, and the duties,  
responsibilities and obligations of the parties to the contracts."
From the way this is written,  I consider  that a distinction was made  between  the insurance part of the 
scheme and the rest if the investment,  and that SISL  was portrayed  as the financial business  tasked 
with providing  information about the insurance.
Ref: DRN755872513So Im minded to find that Mrs B looked at the things SISL said in the key facts document  in respect 
of the bond, and reasonably relied upon these representations when deciding to invest in the scheme. 
SISL knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that potential investors would be directed  to its key 
facts document for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that document  was 
clear, fair, and not misleading.  But, as Ive set out above,  Im not presently persuaded it did this. 
The scheme  Mrs B invested  in failed and NWIC has been liquidated. Mrs B has suffered a loss as a 
result. And, from what Ive seen so far, I think had SISL  provided information  about  the risks involved 
with the bond which was clear, fair, and not misleading,  she wouldnt have invested in the scheme. So 
it is fair that SISL compensate them for the loss.
I am aware  that the bond schedule provided  the name and address of the insurance company. 
However Im mindful that SISLs key facts document was produced as part of the pre-sale 
literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over after the investment had been arranged 
and monies  paid over.  And in any event, the documents provided later also did not highlight the 
risks involved  adequately - for example, they did not highlight the lack of FSCS protection. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mrs B in the 
position she would have been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above, it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the bond - which 
was the key component of the SES - been  explained  clearly, it is more  likely than not that Mrs B 
wouldnt have invested  in the SES scheme at all.
I am satisfied  Mrs B was looking to invest her money, so I think she would have invested elsewhere,  
but with capital protection.  It is not possible to say precisely what she would  have done differently. But 
I am satisfied  that what  I have set out below is fair, given  her objective  for growth  with capital 
protection.
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  the business should calculate the position  Mrs B would now be in if her 
investments had produced  a return matching the average rate for fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity  as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen this method of compensation because in my view Mrs B wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return  without risking any of her capital. The average  rate would be a fair measure given  
her circumstances and objective. It does not mean that Mrs B would  have invested only in a fixed rate 
bond. It is the sort of investment  return  a consumer  could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
The compensation  payable  to Mrs B is the difference between  the fair value and the actual value of 
their investment If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
actual value
This means  the amount received by Mrs B out of the scheme. I understand Mrs B was paid about 
£2,600 following  the developments failure. If this is not the case  Mrs B should let me know.
Any amount received  by Mrs B from the scheme should be deducted from the fair value at the point  it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
It is not clear whether at all Mrs B would  receive any further disbursement from Scheme A. It seems 
unlikely. However, SISL could take ownership  of the investment if it wishes to, provided  Mrs B agrees. 
If it is not possible for SISL to take ownership,  then it may request an undertaking  from Mrs B that she 
repays to SISL any amount  he may receive  from the investment in future.
Ref: DRN755872514fair value
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, the business  should  use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.  The calculation should be made from 
the date of investment to date of my decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional decision is to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should pay to Mrs B the fair compensation  
as set out above.  
It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this amount  from date of decision to date of 
settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance. 
Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs B in a clear, 
simple format.
Sarah Holmes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7558725