K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Marsh Finance Ltd sold her a hire purchase agreement  she couldnt  
afford.
background
In May 2014  Mrs S acquired a car under a three-year hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Marsh Finance. She settled the agreement  and bought the car in May 2017. Two years later 
she complained  that the agreement had not been affordable,  and that Marsh Finance  had 
sold her the agreement irresponsibly. She said that her history  of taking payday loans in the 
months leading  up to the agreement should  have served as a warning to Marsh Finance that 
she could not afford  the loan. She asked for a refund of all the interest she had paid.
Marsh Finance did not agree that the agreement  had been unaffordable. It said it had carried 
out a full credit  check and that she had passed. It added  that out of 36 monthly payments, 
only two had been late, and these had both been  paid only a few days  later. She had not 
mentioned being in financial  difficulty during the agreement, or for two years afterwards, and 
she had settled the agreement in full and on time.
Mrs S brought this complaint to our Service, and our investigator upheld  it. She said that at 
the time Mrs S entered the agreement, she had already been overstretched with her existing 
credit agreements, and that her expenditure had exceeded her income. She acknowledged  
that Mrs Ss payment history under the agreement  had been good,  but she thought  that this 
was only because Mrs S had been  taking  out payday loans in order  to make  the payments to 
Marsh Finance (these were shown in her credit file), and that she had prioritised her 
payments under the agreement because  she needed the car to get to work.  So she 
recommended that the interest and fees Mrs S had paid should be refunded,  with interest  on 
the refunds,  and that any negative information  about the loan should  be removed from her 
credit file.
Marsh Finance reiterated that Mrs S had never  mentioned  that she had been struggling with 
her payments during the agreement, or for two years afterwards. It argued that it had been 
her responsibility to disclose her true financial  situation when shed applied for the 
agreement, and that she should not have  withheld pertinent information to obtain a loan she 
could not afford. She had signed a declaration to the effect that she could afford the 
repayments, and had confirmed this again  on a phone call. Marsh  Finance suggested  that 
Mrs Ss husband could have contributed to the household bills (but Mrs S denies this, as he 
earned less than she did and he was also in debt).  It also said that in 2014 it had not been 
obliged to take expenditure into account.
Our investigator did not change her mind.  She said the declaration  made by Mrs S did not 
relieve Marsh Finance  of its obligation  to lend affordably. So Marsh Finance asked for an 
ombudsman to review  this case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78169842The relevant  regulations  which applied  when the finance agreement  was entered  into were 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook, a chapter of the FCA Handbook, introduced by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in April 2014. Paragraph  5.3.1(4)(b) says:
It is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customer's  
income and expenditure,  on a statement of those matters  made by the customer.1
So Mrs Ss signed  declaration  and what she said in the phone call didnt absolve  Marsh 
Finance of its duty to verify that the hire purchase  agreement was affordable.
Marsh Finance looked at Mrs Ss most recent  weekly payslips at the time. These showed 
that her income fluctuated a bit, but was generally  around £800 to £850  a week.  Taking the 
lower figure, this works  out as a net monthly  income of £3,467.  Her payments under  the 
agreement were £309 a month, or less than a tenth of her income. But Marsh Finance 
actually calculated her income as lower than that, using  instead the figure  of £2,756  a month  
(a difference  of £711). Her payments under the agreement  would  then have come  to 11% of 
her monthly income. So that would certainly  have seemed to be affordable, at least before 
taking into account  her credit history  and expenditure.
It is true that the rules  back then did not expressly  require  a lender to take a customers  
expenditure into account  the rules  say that a lender may, not must, consider  expenditure. 
But the rules also go on to say, in paragraph 5.3.1(2):
The creditworthiness assessment  should  include  the firm taking reasonable 
steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments under a regulated credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  the customer  incurring  financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [Emphasis added.]
Paragraph (6) of the same rule says that sustainable means that the borrower should not 
have to borrow again to meet the repayments.
Its hard to see how a lender could reasonably determine whether a credit agreement  could 
be repaid sustainably without taking into account  not only the customers income, but also 
expenditure.
I have seen the copy of the credit file which Marsh  Finance used in 2014. It is sparse on 
figures: it does not show the balance or monthly payments on each account.  However,  it 
does show that Mrs S took out large numbers of loans in the years  2011 to 2013,  two loans 
in January 2014, and one in February  2014. These were all payday loans or instalment 
loans. So it would have  been clear to Marsh Finance that Mrs S routinely depended  on 
borrowing. (This pattern continued afterwards.)
Mrs S has provided us with a more detailed credit file, dated 2018.  It shows the following 
accounts in May 2014:
A mortgage on which she paid £461 each month.
An unsecured  loan on which she paid £181 each  month.
A credit card with a balance of £989  (credit limit £1,000).  She paid £340 that month.
Another credit card which was in arrears, balance £930. She paid £50.
A mail order  account which was in arrears (balance £624).
1 https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/CONC/5/?date=01-04-
2014&timeline=True&view=chapter
Ref: DRN78169843An overdraft of £1,705 (almost the limit).
The accounts in arrears, and accounts  close to their credit limits, suggest that Mrs S was 
already struggling  to control her finances. This supports her case  that the agreement was 
unaffordable, but even so, I still cant uphold  this complaint unless I am also satisfied that 
Marsh Finance knew that, or ought to have known. And this information  was not available to 
Marsh Finance, as it was using a credit report provided by a different credit  reference 
agency. Marsh  Finance  didnt have to use more than one credit reference agency. I will 
therefore disregard this information, because Marsh  Finance was unaware of it through  no 
fault of its own.
Nevertheless, on the information Marsh Finance did have  at the time, Mrs S had a long and 
recent history of dependence on short-term loans, and there  was no reason to think  that this 
would stop after May 2014 (and it didnt). So I think Marsh Finance  should have found out 
more about her outgoings before  selling  her the hire purchase agreement. It wasnt  enough 
to take her word for it that she could afford  it.
While I would not expect  Marsh Finances to ask all of its customers  for their bank 
statements, as often  just a credit check would have  been enough, in this instance  I think 
Marsh Finance needed to do more than it did, and checking recent bank statements would 
have been one way (though not the only way) to ascertain  Mrs Ss spending habits. Our 
investigator reviewed Mrs Ss statements for the period October 2013 to October 2014, and 
found that even when  taking a monthly  salary of over £3,000  and child benefits as well, her 
expenditure still exceeded her income.
I wouldnt expect Marsh  Finance to check twelve  months  worth  of bank statements, so 
I have only considered the three  months of February to April 2014. I have counted  all 
transactions. During that period, Mrs Ss income  was £11,480.53, and her expenditure was 
£12,358.45.
At this point I think it is relevant to quote  from rule 5.3.7:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful [Emphasis added.]
I think that Mrs S ought to have known that she could  not afford the agreement,  and that 
Marsh Finance ought reasonably to have suspected that was the case. So I will uphold  this 
complaint and order Marsh Finance to refund the interest and charges. But I dont think it 
would be fair of me to award interest on the refunds, because  Marsh Finance would certainly 
not have lent to Mrs S if she had told it she couldnt afford the repayments.
I will also order Marsh  Finance to remove the agreement from Mrs Ss credit file  not just 
the adverse information, but all information about  it, as to only remove adverse information  
would risk misleading other lenders.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Marsh Finance Ltd to:
Refund all interest  and charges to Mrs S, and
Remove the hire purchase agreement from her credit file.
Ref: DRN78169844Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.  But my final decision concludes  this Services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7816984