K820x#14complaint
Ms Ss complaint is about a claim she made  under her U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) legal 
expenses policy. Ms S says that UKI has unreasonably refused to appoint  an alternative law 
firm to assess her claim. 
background
Ms S made a claim to UKI wanting to take legal action against the management company of 
her block  of flats for nuisance.  
UKI said they would  ask one of its panel law firms (A) to look at the claim.  Ms S let UKI 
know she wasnt happy with A looking at the claim. Shed previously had claims dealt  with by 
them and had made complaints about  their conduct. Ms S said she believed a conflict  of 
interest existed and asked  UKI to appoint an alternative law firm. Ms S also pointed  out that 
on a different claim; UKI had agreed  for her to use a different law firm because of this same 
reason.
UKI said having reviewed  this claim,  it didnt agree a conflict  of interest  existed and in any 
event, it would be for A to make this assessment  when considering  the claim. It said that A 
had the required  expertise  to assess the claim and was best placed  to do so. It couldnt 
comment on why it made  the decision it did on Ms Ss other claim some years ago. 
Ms S disagreed, she remained of the view the policy allows  for an alternative law firm to be 
appointed due to the conflict  of interest.  She wanted  UKI to do this or allow her the 
opportunity to choose her own. Ms S brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he didnt  
think a conflict of interest existed and because of this, UKI hadnt done anything wrong by 
saying the claim could be assessed  by A.  
Ms S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so, 
she made several comments.  In summary, Ms S feels she should have been  made  aware 
when taking out the policy if UKI only had one preferred law firm in her part of the country 
and believes  UKI should  be required to give reasons why A is the most preferred law firm 
from its panel. She points  out the policy doesnt define what  a conflict of interest is and 
reiterates UKI accepted  on her previous claim she had a conflict. Ms S has said she doesnt 
believe UKI has grounds to change  that decision now and suggests UKI is only doing so to 
punish her for making complaints about it previously.
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Ms Ss 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN75416892The starting point  is the policy terms. They say:
Choosing who represents you
If we accept your claim, we will choose a preferred law firm to try to settle the matter  without 
having to go to court.
If it is necessary to take your claim to court, or if there is a conflict  of interests, you can 
choose a law firm to act as the appointed  representative. 
If you choose an appointed representative who isnt a preferred  law firm they must agree to 
act for you in line with our terms  of appointment (you can ask us for a copy). We will only 
cover their costs from the date they agree to our terms of appointment. 
The appointed representative will enter into a separate contract of appointment directly  with 
you. You will be responsible for any of their costs that arent authorised  by us.
I think those terms are clear about  the circumstances in which a consumer can appoint their 
own solicitor and where thats the case we wouldnt usually expect an insurer  to fund a 
consumers own choice  of solicitor before it becomes necessary for proceedings to be 
issued. There is of course exceptions to this such as where there are exceptional 
circumstances that apply to the consumers case,  perhaps  where its quite complex or where 
there is a conflict of interests.  Ive considered the underlying claim Ms S wishes  to bring and 
I dont think its overly  complex or one that is outside  of As expertise. And, I dont think there 
are any other exceptional circumstances that mean Ms S should be entitled  to her own 
choice of law firm at this stage. 
Ive also considered what Ms S has said about  her historic relationship with A and that shes 
previously complained about  their conduct.  I understand she believes a conflict of interest 
exists and points  to the fact there  is no definition  of this term within  the policy literature. 
Whether there is a conflict of interests  or a significant risk of one is usually a matter  for 
solicitors to assess themselves and as such,  this would  be something for A to consider 
before agreeing to act. Wed usually  consider  a conflict of interest arises only where  the 
solicitor would be in breach  of their code of conduct,  or would  be "professionally 
embarrassed" if they continued  to act for their client. 
While I appreciate Ms Ss concerns about how her past legal claims have  been  handled,  
including the aspect of her complaint  that was upheld, these things in themselves  wouldnt 
normally constitute a true conflict of interests  as Ive set out above. Of course, even if there 
wasnt a conflict of interest we might  still expect the insurer to consider whether it was 
reasonable to appoint  a different firm if there had been a breakdown of relations  to give the 
chance for a fresh start. But, I dont think there were grounds for that to be done  in this case.
UKI may have previously agreed  to appoint a different law firm on one of Ms Ss earlier legal 
claims but this doesnt mean it would be obliged to do so in this instance or that action set 
any precedent. Looking at whats happened  here I dont think UKI did anything  wrong in 
deciding not to appoint an alternative  law firm in this case.
Ref: DRN75416893Ms S has said that she wasnt made aware that UKI only has one preferred law firm in her 
part of the country  however this doesnt make any difference  to my decision. In the first 
instance, as set out in the term above, it is for UKI to choose a preferred  law firm. If for any 
reason that law firm says it is unable to act, I would expect it to find another firm with the 
required expertise  from its panel  or appoint a firm of Ms Ss own choosing. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied UKI have acted fairly and in line with the 
policy terms. So I wont be asking it to take any further action
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint against  U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7541689