K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  HSBC UK Bank Plc sent him text messages prompting him to review 
messages on his online portal despite them knowing hes unable  to access his online 
banking.
background
Mr M says he shouldnt  be receiving the text messages. He asks for compensation for the 
time spent  and the calls hes made explaining this to HSBC.
HSBC said the reason  Mr M was still receiving the text messages  prompting him to check 
his online  portal  was because he hadnt  deregistered his online banking. And until he does 
this, hell continue to receive the text messages because theyre automated.
Mr M complained to us and one of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. Our 
adjudicator didn't think HSBC had done  anything wrong. He explained that he couldnt  see 
that Mr M had specifically requested to deregister his online banking so the texts have 
continued to be sent by HSBC. 
Mr M didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. He feels  he 
should be compensated for HSBCs error  in not deregistering his online banking. So the 
case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms concern that hes still receiving  the text messages despite  not using his 
online banking. And I can see why Mr M is very frustrated by this. 
HSBC say in order  for Mr M to stop receiving  these text messages,  he needs to deregister 
his account from any form of online banking. I can see HSBC wrote  to Mr M in January 2019 
letting him know that if he wanted to deregister  from any form of online banking, he should 
contact HSBCs telephone banking team who would have been  able to assist Mr M with this. 
HSBC have provided me with a copy of their internal records which Ive looked at. I cant see 
anything to show me that Mr M instructed HSBC to deregister his online banking.  So based 
on this, I cant say HSBC have done  anything  wrong. They told Mr M how to deregister, but 
he doesnt appear to have  followed  those  instructions.
Whilst Mr M changed  his preferred method  of contact to post in December 2018,  this isnt 
the same  as deregistering  his account for online banking.  And until this happens, Mr M will 
continue to receive the automated text messages. 
HSBC have said that if Mr M accepts my decision, theyll  arrange  to deactivate his online 
banking. However,  if Mr M doesnt accept  my decision, he has the information about who to 
contact  provided to him by HSBC - should he wish to arrange this himself.
Having thought about everything and because I havent seen  anything  to show  HSBC have 
made a mistake,  I wont  be telling them to compensate Mr M. 
Ref: DRN78534082my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before18 May 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7853408