K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced the credit limit of his credit card 
account after he made a payment to reduce the outstanding balance.
background
Mr F has a credit  card account with Barclays who in March 2019  contacted  him and provided  
some generic financial information  and advice about how to keep his finances in shape. 
This was followed up in April 2019 with a letter explaining that in the last 18 months  Mr F had 
paid more in interest  and charges on his credit card than payments toward what was 
borrowed. Barclays explained this is something called persistent debt, and that the letter 
was being sent due to rules introduced by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  in order to 
help customers avoid  long term debt. The letter went  on the say that increasing payments 
would save money  on interest, and take years off the time it would  take to repay  the 
outstanding balance. Barclays explained that if increased payments werent made  over the 
next 18 months, and the persistent debt remained, they would  suspend  the account. Mr F 
continued to make payments to the account. 
Barclays wrote to Mr F in early May 2019 saying  they were  reducing the credit limit on the 
account from £9,200 to £8,950.
Mr F complained to Barclays who said that the credit limit was reduced following a review of 
his account. They also explained that the letter asking for increased payments had been 
sent in line with rules  set down by the FCA. Barclays went  on to say that they were  trying to 
assist in reducing the level of debt. Mr F was unhappy with this response so brought  his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. He was satisfied that Barclays acted 
fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the account, when making 
the commercial lending decision to reduce Mr Fs credit limit. Mr F remained unhappy saying 
that he wanted to raise  awareness of the shady practices of Barclays  who he thinks put 
people off repaying their debt by reducing credits  limits after asking  for extra  payments. 
Because Mr F remained  unhappy  the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
Each business will have  their own criteria to consider when deciding what limit to apply to 
credit card accounts. These criteria  might  include things like income, expenditure, patterns of 
use and information  from credit reference  agencies.  Its up to a business to decide on what 
basis they will make  credit available to consumers, and theyre entitled to keep  that 
information confidential. My role is to decide whether Barclays  acted fairly  when  reducing  the 
credit limit on Mr Fs account.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the account which  allow Barclays to set a credit  
limit they feel is appropriate in the circumstances. They  go on to say that Barclays  will, from 
time to time, review that limit and let a customer  know  if there is a change. Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN71768672Barclays acted in line with these terms and conditions when decreasing  the credit limit. 
Barclays also wrote  to Mr F confirming the change, as they said they would.
Mr F has wider concerns  about Barclays reducing  credit limits after consumers have made 
extra payments.  He says by taking this action Barclays are penalising consumers  and 
putting pressure  on them to stay in debt.
I understand Mr Fs unhappiness  at his credit limit being reduced,  and his wider concerns for 
other consumers who might have their credit limited reduced. However,  Ive seen no 
evidence that Barclays has acted in any way other than what is expected of them by the 
FCA when dealing with consumers who are in persistent debt. 
Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably,  and in line with the credit card account  
terms and conditions, when reducing  Mr Fs credit  limit. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019. 
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176867