K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions,  which  he says he 
didnt make.
background
Mr C said that his debit  card was used  to make several payments and cash  withdrawals,  
totalling £594.95, on 22 and 23 December 2018.  The payments were  made  in a pub and two 
nightclubs. He said he didnt make these transactions.
Mr C said he last used his debit  card on 22 December 2018  at 3pm to withdraw  £100  cash  
for Christmas shopping. He said this was the last time he saw his card. He didnt need to use 
it because he had cash. After doing some shopping,  he went home and didnt leave the 
house again.
In the early hours  of 23 December 2018, he received a text alert message from HSBC about  
his balance. He checked his online banking and saw the disputed  transactions.  It was then 
that he noticed his card was missing. 
He reported his card as stolen later the same day. 
Mr C said he went to the ATM alone.  He hadnt noticed anything  unusual with the machine 
or anyone  suspicious  in the vicinity.  He said he kept his card in his pocket and he hadnt 
shared his PIN with anyone, other  than his partner.
He expected HSBC to refund the disputed transactions.
HSBC investigated  his complaint but decided not to refund him. It said his genuine card and 
correct PIN had been used to make the disputed transactions. It concluded, therefore, that 
he had authorised them. However,  it paid him a total of £150 for providing him with a poor 
service.
As Mr C didnt  agree with HSBCs decision,  he asked this service  to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold  it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the disputed transactions had been  made  fraudulently. She was 
persuaded they were most likely  made and authorised by Mr C. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view, so hes asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote two detailed views. Each view sets out, in full, the facts, the 
transactions, the relevant  regulations and the evidence. Both Mr C and HSBC have read the 
Ref: DRN75159272investigators views, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of 
my decision.  However, I can assure Mr C that Ive read the file, including  his comments  and 
those made  by his partner. 
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Cs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this 
effect, are the Payment  Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). So, I also need  to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C authorised the 
transactions, either by making them  himself  or allowing  someone  else to use his card.
Mr C said he didnt suspect anyone, and he couldn't place blame on anyone. He only knew  
that his card was missing  and that he was at home when  the disputed  transactions  were  
made. However, from what Ive seen,  I dont think its unreasonable  for HSBC  to conclude 
that it was Mr C who authorised the transactions. This is because:
on his own admission, Mr C said he didnt share  his PIN with anyone,  apart from his 
partner.
The only opportunity for an unknown third party to find out his PIN was when he used  
his card at the ATM on 22 December at 3pm. However, Mr C said he was alone at 
the ATM. He said he didnt see or notice anyone suspicious.
He didnt mention  anyone  at the ATM  being close  enough to observe him entering his 
PIN.
The ATM  returned his card, as he said he placed  it back in his pocket, so he didnt 
lose it there.
He didnt mention  any problems  with the ATM,  which might  point  to a fault or to a 
scamming device attached to the machine.
The disputed payments were small and consistent with his normal  spending habit  in 
other bars and pubs.   
Mr C had visited the pub, where  some  disputed transactions were made, on previous 
occasions.
Ive considered whether someone  saw him enter his PIN on an earlier occasion. The banks 
records show that he used his card at an ATM on 22 December  at 11.27 am and he made  a 
chip and PIN purchase on 21 December  at 3.31pm. A third party  might  have  observed  him 
entering his PIN on one of these occasions.  However, I dont think  this is what happened 
because it would mean that the third party followed him for three  hours at least or, at most, 
24 hours before stealing his card. Besides, Mr C didnt mention anyone  suspicious in the 
vicinity when he made these two transactions
Based on this evidence,  Im afraid  I dont consider  theres any plausible  explanation  for how 
an unknown third party knew  Mr Cs PIN. Taking everything into account, I find on balance 
that its more likely than not that Mr C made  and authorised  the disputed  transactions.
I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for HSBC to refuse  a refund of the disputed 
transactions on the basis they were authorised by Mr C.
Ref: DRN75159273my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2019.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7515927