K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Ms R says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms R took out on a store  card account  in January 1994. 
It was added  to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Ms R mainly  says that she wasnt aware that she was taking out PPI. Ms R told us she was 
an agency worker when  the policy was sold so she wouldnt have been able to claim under 
the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made Ms R aware  that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application 
from the time of sale. There  are Yes and No tick boxes for PPI  so I think  Ms R wouldve  
been aware that it was up to her to choose if she wanted to take out PPI. And she couldve 
ticked the no box if she hadnt wanted  PPI. 
The Yes  box is ticked on Ms Rs application and shes  signed  the completed  form. I dont 
know what mightve been said about the PPI  but I think it wouldve been clear from the 
paperwork that it was up to Ms R to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
I can completely understand why she mightve forgotten  this now as the sale was a long time 
ago. But, based  on all the information  Ive seen, I think Ms R was aware  the policy was 
optional and she chose  to take it out. 
As Ms R completed this application  in a store I dont think a recommendation was made  by 
FICL. This means that FICL didnt have to check if the policy  was suitable for her. But it still 
needed to make sure it gave Ms R enough clear information to decide if the policy  was right 
for her, taking into account her personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Ms R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Ms R wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy,  if 
better information had been provided.  
On balance I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped Ms R taking out the PPI.
Ref: DRN72194322The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment. It couldve paid a 
monthly benefit for as long as Ms R was off work. Ive taken into account  everything Ms R 
has told us about  her work arrangements.  But what she says isnt enough on its own for me 
to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look at all the available  information  and decide 
what I think is most likely.  
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Ms R couldve benefitted from having PPI if 
shed needed  to claim. Ms R told us shed always been fully employed (apart  from a 2 week 
period when she was 19 years  old). And FICL  says its records  from the sale in 1994  indicate 
that when Ms R took out her store  card shed been  working for the last 4 years.   
So, I havent seen  enough information  to be able to say that Ms R was affected by any of the 
usual conditions that mightve limited  the policys benefit to her. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Ms R clear enough information  about the costs of the 
policy. But she chose to take it out when  she didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted 
it at the time, even  if shes forgotten this now. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Ms R, I think  it unlikely she wouldve  made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7219432