K820x#14complaint
Mrs R was accused of reversing into a third partys car and causing damage.  Shes unhappy  
that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) settled the claim on a fault basis.
background
Mrs R was parking her car in a supermarket car park when she was accused of hitting the 
car behind  her. She doesnt know if she hit the car, and she doesnt agree that any damage  
was caused. But the third party claimed  for damage, and LV settled  the claim. Mrs R has 
complained about LV settling the claim and the effect this has had on her insurance 
premiums.
Our adjudicator found LV had acted reasonably by settling the claim in the third partys  
favour. He felt that, given the circumstances  of the alleged incident, Mrs R wouldnt have 
been successful  if the case had gone  to court. Because of this, he didnt think  LV needed to 
do anything more.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She felt the third party had no right to be so close to 
her car and that there  was no impact and no damage. Shes unhappy  that LV didnt consider 
the third partys photographic evidence and feels we believed the third party rather  than the 
engineer who examined  her car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether LV handled the claim  in a fair and reasonable manner.  It isnt 
to decide who was at fault for the accident. Decisions on responsibility are best dealt  with by 
the courts.
The terms of Mrs Rs car insurance policy allowed LV to conduct  the claim,  and gave  them 
full discretion to agree  a settlement. Because of this LV didnt need Mrs Rs agreement or 
approval to agree liability (or any other  decision) with the third party  insurer. But I would 
expect them to base  any decision on things  such as:
The versions of events provided  by Mrs R and the third party.
Evidence provided to support or challenge the versions of events.
I have listened  to the telephone calls when Mrs R reported the incident to LV, and her follow 
up call a few days later. Mrs R told LV that she may have rolled back  into the third partys  
car, but she couldnt  be sure. She also said that the back of her car was outside the lines of 
the parking space, because its a long car, but all four wheels were within the lines.
Mrs R said she hadnt finished parking  her car at the time of the alleged  incident and she 
feels that the third party shouldnt  have  been  so close  she said he may have been  driving  
too fast or just couldnt stop in time. LV told Mrs R that, if shed moved backwards and hit 
another car, they would have to accept responsibility  for the accident and any repairs. They  
also told Mrs R that the third party was entitled  to be in the car park,  and in the space behind  
Mrs R, regardless  of how close the vehicles  happened to be at any given time.
Ref: DRN79372812Theres no CCTV evidence of the alleged incident, nor are there any independent witnesses. 
This means  that the versions of events from both parties would have to be relied  upon,  and 
Mrs R was unsure whether she had hit the other  car  although she was sure that, if she had 
have done, then there was no visible damage. I agree that Mrs Rs uncertainty  as to whether 
she hit the third party or not would make  it very difficult  for LV to successfully defend the 
claim if it went to court.
Mrs Rs car is a 4x4, and has a spare  wheel mounted on the rear which protrudes past the 
bumper. If any impact  had happened, and any damage caused, all parties agree it would be 
caused by the impact  of the spare wheel onto the bonnet of the third partys car. The 
engineer who inspected Mrs Rs car said there was no damage  to the spare  wheel. But I 
havent seen that the engineer said the spare wheel couldnt have caused  any damage to 
the third partys car.
Mrs R says that the third party took photographs of the damage at the time, but didnt let her 
see these or provide them to LV. The damage claimed for by the third party was consistent 
with the bonnet of his car being struck at low speed by an object such as a spare tyre, and 
the value of the claim reflected this. LV had told Mrs R that, if they had any concerns about 
the damage being claimed for, or the value of that damage, then they would have the third 
partys car examined by an engineer. LV were  satisfied with the claim and, because of this, I 
dont think that not seeing  any photographs of the damage made any difference.
Because of this Im satisfied that LV handled the claim  in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Their decision to accept  liability was made  with full regard to all of the evidence and 
circumstances of the accident,  and was taken in line with the terms of Mrs Rs car insurance 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7937281