K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that the information Experian  Limited are reporting on his credit file is 
incorrect.
Background
Mr S signed  up to be on the anonymous  electoral register  meaning  he was on the register,  
but his information wasnt available to the public.
But when Mr S looked at his credit report provided  by Experian, he noticed  he was showing 
as not being on the electoral register.
Mr S complained to Experian about  this, and said it was affecting  his credit score, and so 
affecting his ability to get credit.
Experian said it reported the data it received  from the people  responsible for the data. So, in 
terms of reporting  Mr Ss electoral register, it reported the information it was provided by 
local councils. It said it hadnt received  any information to show Mr S was on the register, so 
it couldnt report he was. But it did say Mr S could add a notice of correction (NOC) to his 
credit report,  explaining he was on the register but registered anonymously.
Unhappy Mr S brought his complaint to us. He said Experian had a duty to report correct 
information, and the information they were  reporting  was knowingly factually incorrect.  Hes 
said he can prove he is registered to vote and thinks Experian should be able to take this 
information into account.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and recommended it not be upheld. He thought  
Experian were acting reasonably and in line with regulations when reporting the data they 
received from the local council, and thought  Experians suggestion of adding a NOC was 
fair.
Mr S remained unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so. Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I understand why Mr S is unhappy, he is on the electoral register, but this isnt showing on 
his credit report. Hes registered to vote anonymously  and is well within  his rights to do this. 
Ive seen proof he was registered to vote.
Experian has a duty to report information relating to Mr Ss creditworthiness   including 
where hes registered to vote. But it reports this information from the third parties who hold it, 
not the information provided by Mr S. So, information about how Mr S handles his bank 
account is provided by his bank. Information  on where Mr S is registered  to vote is provided 
by the local council hes registered  to.
As Mr S is registered to vote anonymously, his local council arent  providing  any information 
to Experian showing  hes registered  even  though  he is. So it follows  that Experian cant  
Ref: DRN73176272report hes registered to vote. Meaning  its reporting Mr S isnt on the electoral register.  I 
understand Mr Ss frustrations, but I cant say Experian  has done anything  wrong.
Experian has said Mr S can add a NOC to his credit report, and this NOC will be visible to 
any potential creditors. Im satisfied thats reasonable, as it allows any potential  creditor  
access to the information  about Mr S being registered to vote anonymously,  should it need  it 
to assess Mr Ss creditworthiness.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  Experian Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7317627