K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about CIS General  Insurance  Limiteds (CIS) handling of her motor 
insurance policy.
background
Ms M had a policy with CIS. She told it about  an incident in which  she hit a pedestrian while  
parking. She wasn't happy with a number of aspects  of CISs service  and complained. CIS 
accepted that some  of its service wasn't at the standard  that it hoped  for. So it paid Ms M 
£175 compensation.
Ms M brought her complaint about  CIS to us. I issued  a provisional decision on 
6 August 2019.  For ease I've copied  my provisional  findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  I won't uphold  it.
In bringing this complaint Ms M has made  a number  of detailed points. And Ive considered  
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points.
Ms M said that a pedestrian stepped out behind her car while she was reversing.  She said 
the incident wasn't her fault. She rang CIS to tell it about the incident. She said CIS gave her 
incorrect information during that call. And, as a result, she lost the opportunity  to gather 
evidence that could show she wasn't to blame for the incident.
When she called it CIS told Ms M that, as long as the pedestrian didn't submit a claim, 
Ms Ms no claims discount  (NCD) would be unaffected and that she didn't need to tell other  
insurers about the incident. So it seems  that Ms M wasn't initially  concerned by the incident. 
But she later found out that CIS had invited the pedestrian  to make a claim.  And it had 
recorded the incident on a shared insurance  database. At that time it said the claim was 
open  that is unsettled. It might help if I explain that insurers  will generally  treat open claims 
as fault claims until theyre  settled  as non-fault or no actual claim is received. So the open 
claim did initially affect Ms Ms NCD but that was because  CIS didn't act quickly  to close it 
down when no claim was received.  
Ms M said CIS should have told her that it was essentially holding  her at fault for the 
incident. And if it had done so shed have taken action to try and get CCTV footage  or other  
evidence which might have been  available at the time in order  to prove she wasn't  to blame  
for it.
Ive some sympathy with Ms M here. But I need to make  it clear that its not my role to 
decide whos at fault for an incident, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. But I will look 
to see that CIS has acted  reasonably.
If the incident happened as Ms M described,  that is a pedestrian  stepped into her path 
without giving her any time to stop, then the accident is unlikely to be considered  her fault.  I 
don't think  the fact that she was reversing  would change  that. On the other hand, CIS will be 
aware that the onus is generally  on the driver reversing  to ensure that the way behind them 
is clear.  And it would have  been concerned that the likelihood was that a liability decision 
would go against  her because she was reversing.  So I can understand CIS concerns as well 
Ref: DRN79074562as Ms Ms. And if CIS had made  it clear to Ms M at the outset that a liability  decision might  
go against her she could at the very least have  seen if other evidence such  as CCTV 
footage had caught the incident. But because  it didn't give her that information  she lost the 
opportunity to do that while  any CCTV footage  was still available.  
We can't  now say what would have happened  if CIS had given Ms M different advice at the 
outset. And its certainly possible  that the incident wouldn't have  been  caught on CCTV or 
that no other supportive evidence was available. But I can understand why Ms M might  feel 
that she lost the opportunity to at least find out if that was the case. 
But, as I understand  it the pedestrian didn't  submit  a claim and I believe that the timeframe  
to do so has since passed. And CIS did correct the record on the shared database to show 
as notification only with NCD  allowed. That means  its showing as a non-fault incident.  In 
other words it shows Ms M was in an incident  but that no blame  has been attached to her.  
Ms Ms concern was that the pedestrian could have made a personal injury  claim up to three 
years after the incident.  I understand that date has only recently passed. And during that 
time Ms M might  have felt that there  was the potential for the pedestrian to submit  a claim 
that could affect  her insurance history. And that she felt shed lost the opportunity  to defend  
that robustly because of CIS actions. She was also plainly concerned  with CIS initial  view 
that she might be held at fault for the incident.  So I can certainly see why she felt the need to 
complain even though the pedestrian didn't  actually  make a claim.
But I need to be clear that CIS didn't ever actually  make  a formal decision on liability.  It 
appears its initial view was, because  Ms M was reversing,  it might struggle to defend any 
claim. But CIS didn't ever actually make a liability decision. It would only have done that after 
it had received a claim and looked  into the circumstances of it. So as the pedestrian  didnt 
put a claim in, CIS didnt ever make  a final decision on it. I appreciate  that its initial  view was 
that it was more likely than not that Ms M would be deemed at fault should  such  a claim be 
made. But no claim was actually made so the initial view didn't  become a liability  decision.
Also, CIS told Ms M in the initial call that she didn't need to tell other insurers  about the 
incident. Its since acknowledged that that was poor advice  and that she would need to tell 
other insurers about it.  
Ms M was also unhappy that the incident was affecting her NCD when her policy was due for 
renewal following the incident. CIS had previously told her that if the pedestrian didn't claim it 
would close down the incident  and it wouldn't affect  her NCD. That was the correct  advice 
and that was the action CIS should have taken. But CIS didn't close the claim promptly.  So 
the open claim did initially affect her claims history. But after she contacted it CIS corrected 
that; it closed the claim and recorded  it as notification only. So her NCD was no longer 
affected and other insurers  could see the incident was correctly  recorded.
Ms M commented that the incident  affected her premiums.  But she didn't insure  with CIS 
again. So its not responsible for the premiums other insurers  offered. I can see there's been 
some confusion over this point. In her assessment our adjudicator referred to the premium 
that CIS calculated at renewal. But Ms M said that CIS didn't give her a quote at renewal; so 
she wasn't sure what our adjudicator was referring to. I think  I can explain the discrepancy. I 
note that Ms M used a broker to source her policies. Most brokers have a panel  of insurers 
they work  with. And, when sourcing new policies or when policies are due to renew, brokers  
will ask the panel  of insurers to provide quotes for that customers cover. And brokers  may 
only show their customers  the cheapest  quotes  they received from the various insurers they 
Ref: DRN79074563use. In other words  a broker might, in theory,  receive 12 quotes from insurers  but only show 
their customer one or two of those. So, if CIS wasn't one of the cheaper insurers,  then the 
broker might  not provide  Ms M with the quote  from it. And I think  that would  explain  why CIS 
has a record of the renewal premium  if calculated when Ms M said she didn't receive  a quote 
from it at all.
As I've said above I can understand why Ms M felt the need to complain. And CIS has 
acknowledged that it didn't get everything right. But ultimately the pedestrian  didn't make  a 
claim so CIS didn't have to make  a formal liability decision. And it correctly  recorded the 
incident on the shared database,  although it accepted that it was slow to do so. And it paid 
Ms M £175 compensation  to address  her distress and inconvenience from the things it got 
wrong, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not going to direct CIS to 
take any further action now. 
developments
Ms M made  a number of detailed comments on my provisional decision.  I don't intend to 
repeat everything  she said here but I believe the key points are that she said I didn't 
accurately summarise her version  of the incident with the pedestrian. She said that CIS was 
incompetent and unprofessional  throughout. She added that the quotes she received for 
premiums at renewal were all high because of the manner in which  CIS had handled the 
matter and it took her a long time for that to be corrected.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I've checked  our file and Ms M is correct that I didn't accurately represent  her version of 
events concerning the incident with the pedestrian. Ms M didn't say that the pedestrian  had 
stepped out behind her but rather that the pedestrian  had walked into the rear flank  of her 
car. I trust Ms M will accept my apology for the error. But, I don't  think  that has any bearing 
on my findings. Ms Ms account is still that there  was little she could do to prevent the 
collision, so Im satisfied that the rest of my findings above still apply. In particular  that if CIS 
had advised her correctly  at the outset then she could have taken different action, although 
we can't  now say what the outcome of that action might have been. 
Ms Ms suggested that she could have asked the pedestrian to sign a statement admitting 
her fault for the incident. But Ms M could have  taken that action at any stage.  I commented  
in my provisional decision that I had some sympathy that Ms M felt that shed  been  denied 
the opportunity  to gather other evidence, assuming that evidence existed. But in the end the 
pedestrian didn't ever submit a claim,  so I don't think she was prejudiced  by CIS actions.
I understand Ms M feels that CIS handled the matter poorly from the outset. But, as I've said 
above, no matter  how strongly Ms M feels about  the situation the pedestrian didn't ever 
submit a claim and so CIS didn't ever actually make  a liability  decision. And CIS has 
accepted that it didn't get everything right and paid Ms M compensation because  of that. I 
think that was a reasonable response in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN79074564Ms M thinks the manner  in which CIS dealt  with the claim caused her premiums  to rise at 
renewal. But I think  its likely that the incident would have affected Ms Ms renewal premium, 
anyway. 
Its standard across the motor insurance industry for insurers  to ask potential  policyholders  if 
theyve had any accidents,  incidents or losses regardless of whether a claim has been 
made or not. So Ms M would have had to tell other  insurers about  the incident  with the 
pedestrian regardless  of how CIS handled  it. 
And Im aware that at the time of her renewal Ms M had two other  claims in her history that 
were likely to be influencing the premiums other  insurers offered.  For example Ms Ms 
provided us with an email  form the insurer that provided cover after CIS (the renewal 
insurer).That email  clearly refers to the two other claims and how it was coding them. And 
Ive noted that the renewal insurer said that it was its decision to treat the incident with the 
pedestrian as a fault incident,  because a third party has three  years  in which  to make a 
claim. So I dont think  its fair to hold CIS responsible because  Ms M found  her premiums 
had increased. And I dont  see any reason  to alter my provisional  decision.
For completeness Ms M asked if the incident would have dropped off the shared database 
now that the pedestrian wouldnt be able to make  a claim. But insurers are required to record  
all incidents on the database regardless of whether or not a claim is made. And CIS 
recorded the claim as notification only, which means no claim was made. Thats  still the 
case, so I dont think the incident would be removed now.  Its my understanding that 
incidents remain on the shared database for six years.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7907456