K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the service  provided in relation  to his central heating insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr W made a claim under his policy  on 23 December 2018, as there was a leak at his 
property. At that stage,  I understand  the boiler was still working. British  Gas told Mr W that it 
was not therefore an emergency and no one could attend for three  days. However, the 
following day (Christmas Eve) the leak became worse;  water was leaking through the ceiling  
into the lounge  and the boiler had to be turned off. British  Gas sent a gas engineer  out that 
evening. Mr W says he didnt want to investigate  the leak,  he said he didnt have the right 
tools with him and that Mr W should contact his home insurer.  It appears the contractor said 
it was a plumbing leak rather than a central heating system leak. 
British Gas sent out a plumbing contractor  on 27 December  2018, who said the leak was 
from a central heating pipe, which he could not deal with and the previous contractor should 
have been able to fix it when he attended  on Christmas Eve. British Gas arranged to send 
another gas engineer. At 8.30pm on 27 December  2018, Mrs W called British  Gas to say the 
engineer had not yet attended  having  waited for him all day. British Gas told her he would 
get to her at around 10 pm or they could reschedule the appointment for the next day. Mrs W 
agreed to reschedule the appointment. The leak was in her daughters bedroom, and she 
needed to be able to go to bed. Another gas engineer attended on 28 December 2018 but 
he didnt have a circular  saw which was needed to access  the leak through  the floor. So 
another appointment was booked for the next day, when the leaking pipe was finally  
replaced.  
Mr W is very unhappy with the way the claim was handled, which  meant he and his family 
were without heating  and hot water  for six days over the Christmas period.  Their daughter 
was unwell and sleeping in a damp room as a result of the leak.  Mr W says the contractor 
that came  out on 24 December 2018 was unwilling to look at the problem, as he said it might 
not be a central  heating  system problem. The contractor told him to contact his home  
insurer, which he agreed to do. He had also told British  Gas on the phone  when  arranging  
the other appointments that they would need a circular saw to make  an access  hole to fix the 
pipe but the engineer still turned up without one again.
British Gas says the first engineer didnt complete the repair  as Mr W said he was going to 
contact his home insurer because of the damage caused to the property.  It accepted there 
were some delays but said that Mr W asked  for the appointments  to be rescheduled rather  
than accept an appointment later the same  day, which meant it took longer to complete the 
repair and Mr W and his family were without heating and hot water  for longer. British Gas 
offered £80 compensation for the delays  it was responsible for.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that British Gas pay an 
additional £120 compensation (£200 in total). She didnt  think  Mr W had much  choice but to 
agree to reschedule two appointments, given the engineers had not attended by mid/late 
evening; and the fact British Gas sent a plumber, rather  than a central heating/  gas engineer  
on 27 December 2018 meant two more  days without heating and hot water. 
Mr W accepted the investigators assessment. British Gas did not accept it and said a total of 
£150 would  be reasonable,  so the matter  has been passed to me.  
Ref: DRN74955332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The leak was from a central heating pipe under the floor in a bedroom. It appears to have  
been a relatively  quick  problem  to repair when it was finally  repaired  on 29 December  2018,  
with access made through the floor and a section of pipe replaced. I have seen  no 
persuasive evidence  as to why this could not have  been done on 24 December 2018. 
The engineer that attended  on 24 December 2018 gave a statement to British Gas which 
says: 
I attended  the property  late in the day on Xmas  eve. I advised the customer  that I would 
need to come back with another  engineer and or more equipment to start making access  to 
find the leak. Unfortunately  due to the timing  of the leak over the Xmas  period I wasn't able 
to go back until after Xmas due to the time/ tools required. I advised the customer of this 
along with the £1000  limit on access/ damage to find and repair  the leak so I asked if their 
home insurance would  cover it due to property damage already. I didn't know  if they could 
get it done quicker/ potentially cheaper  that way or wait for me to go back  after Xmas  and 
chance going over the £1000 limit. They said they would  look into it and call us back  if they 
would prefer us to do it.
British Gas says the repair wasnt done that day because Mr W said he would see if his 
home insurer would cover it. 
Mr W held a central heating insurance policy with British Gas to cover emergency situations  
exactly like this one. Even  if Mr W had agreed to try and make a claim under his home 
insurance for the damage caused to his home by the leak and/or trace  and access (which is 
disputed), that is no reason why British Gas should not have repaired the leak. And, even if 
Mr W said he would do so, this would seem  to have been on the basis of the engineer 
suggesting there wouldnt be sufficient cover under  the British Gas policy  to trace  and 
access the leak. It seems to me, having considered all the evidence  provided, that Mr Ws 
testimony that the contractor was unwilling to look at the problem seems  to be credible. 
There is nothing that suggests that it would have cost anywhere near the £1,000 policy limit 
to access this leak. It required a hole to be made in the floor and possibly also the ceiling 
below. There is also no reason why this could  not have been done on that first attendance, 
rather than leaving it until after Christmas, The only tool required  was a circular saw and I 
dont think it is unreasonable to expect  a gas engineer attending  to a call out for a leak from 
a pipe through a floor/ceiling  to expect to bring  that with him. Instead twice  engineers  turned 
up without one. 
Given the fact the leak was affecting  the boiler there seems to reason for a plumber being 
sent out who was not qualified to deal with central heating leaks. 
It seems  to me that the first engineer could and should have been able to repair the leak on 
24 December 2018. It was a leak from a central heating pipe. There has been  no suggestion 
it was difficult to find. If it had been repaired then as it should,  it would have  avoided  all the 
subsequent problems: Mr W and his family  would not have been  without  heating  and hot 
water for several days over the Christmas period; and would not have  had to accommodate  
Ref: DRN74955333three more  unnecessary appointments,  including two which were entirely futile  (as one was 
unqualified and one didnt bring  a saw with him, despite knowing hed need to make  access  
hole). 
The investigator recommended  that British Gas pay a total of £200 compensation (to include 
the amount already offered). I consider that the total sum of £300 is more appropriate to 
reflect that they were  without heating and hot water  for several  days, over the Christmas 
period. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay Mr W the 
sum of £300  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495533