K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the cancellation of their motor  insurance policy  in the name 
of Mr R, with Mrs R as a named driver  by Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
background 
Mr R took out the insurance policy with Advantage via an online comparison site. During the 
course of the application he was asked various questions, and at the end was offered a 
policy.
On receipt of further documents,  after the start of the policy,  Advantage learned that Mr R 
had a previous  road traffic offence.  It said he hadnt  declared it during the application 
process. Advantage said that if it had known  about the offence it would still have offered the 
policy, but would have charged  more  for it. So it tried to charge Mr R the additional premium.  
Mr R complained. He disputed the increase in premium  and said the offence was spent so 
didnt need to be disclosed.  Advantage cancelled  the policy and sent Mr R a notice  of 
cancellation by email. Mr R responded, also by email, disputing  its right to cancel the policy.  
A few days  later, Mrs R was stopped by police for driving without insurance.  She was 
subsequently convicted of the offence, fined,  and had six penalty  points added to her 
licence.
Advantage accepted that it hadnt  give Mr R seven days notice of the cancellation. It only 
told him of the cancellation when it had happened. It offered £75 compensation for not giving 
him notice  sooner. But it didnt accept any responsibility for Mrs Rs conviction, since by then 
Mr R did know  of the cancellation and Advantage said it hadnt done anything  to lead him to 
believe the policy hadnt been cancelled.
Our adjudicator said that Advantage hadnt  given  Mr R enough notice  of the cancellation  for 
him to find alternative  insurance. And he said that Mr R had reasonably thought a dialogue 
was still open,  rather than that the policy had been cancelled.  He said this led to Mrs R being  
stopped by the police.  So he said Advantage should:
Give Mrs R a letter  of indemnity which she could use to try and challenge her 
conviction;
Pay Mrs Rs expenses, including the fine, and pay her £350  compensation for the 
distress of being stopped and having to attend  court.
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said it told Mr R of the cancellation the same  day. Mr R knew 
about this because he responded to the email. Although he received an acknowledgement  
of his email, nothing about  it would have led him to believe the cancellation had been 
rescinded. It was Mrs Rs choice to drive the car for over a week  after they had been  told the 
policy had been  cancelled. But it offered a further £100, making £175 in all, as compensation 
for not giving  advance  notice of the cancellation. And it agreed to give Mrs R a letter  of 
indemnity if she wanted one.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN74251222Ive also taken  into account the relevant law  the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act  applicable to cases where  an insurer believes its been misled when 
selling an insurance contract.
In summary, the law says that an applicant for insurance  has a duty to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation as part of their application. Where a misrepresentation is 
made, which would have affected  the basis on which  the insurance was offered   or whether 
it would have  been offered at all  the insurer has a series of remedies  as set out in the Act.
I think  that in this case Mr R did make a misrepresentation, and didnt  take reasonable  care 
not to. Ive seen the question he was asked when he took out the insurance policy, and it asks 
Have you committed  any driving offences or had any fixed penalty notices in the last five 
years?  Mr R committed the offence  of ignoring  traffic signals in 2014 and his licence was 
endorsed with six penalty points.
Mr R argues that this conviction was spent. But I dont  think it was. I dont know if it was a 
fixed penalty  notice or a formal conviction, but either way it was something he should  have 
declared. The rehabilitation period for a driving offence that results in conviction and 
endorsement of a licence is five years  which  is why Advantage  asked about that period in 
its question. And a fixed penalty notice that results in an endorsement like this one must  stay 
on the driving  record for four years.  Either way, the time limit hadnt expired when he was 
asked the question.
I accept Mr R genuinely believed  the offence was spent and he didnt need to declare it. But 
he was wrong about that, and as the wording of the question is clear  it asks for any offences  
or fixed penalty notices in the last five years  I think he didnt take reasonable  care not to 
make a misrepresentation. And Advantage has shown  that the endorsement  would  affect the 
premium, so this was a qualifying misrepresentation   that is, one which would  affect the 
basis of the insurance. 
In the case of a careless misrepresentation   one like this one which isnt reckless or 
deliberate  where a claim hasnt been made (as is the case here) if the insurer can show it 
would have offered insurance but at a higher premium,  it can:
Cancel the insurance, with notice, refunding any unused premiums; or
Agree  to continue the insurance,  but on the basis that any claims  will be paid 
proportionately (so, for example, where  the premium paid is only 80% of what the 
premium should have  been, only pay 80% of any claim  made).
Strictly speaking, those  are the only options open to it. However, as cancellation is a big step, 
and would have to be declared  on future applications,  we think its fair to give the insured the 
option of either accepting proportionate cover or choosing to cancel the insurance themselves 
(rather than it being cancelled  by the insurer).  And, if the insured  is willing to pay the higher 
premium for full cover to continue, thats a fair outcome  too  though the insurer cant  insist  on 
that.
In this case, Advantage didnt give Mr R the option  of continuing with proportionate cover, and 
it didnt give him the option of cancelling  the policy himself. It simply demanded the higher 
premium and when Mr R refused to pay it cancelled the policy without giving him the notice  it 
should have given.
That shouldnt have happened. It should fairly  have  given  him that choice. However, given 
that Mr R didnt accept that hed made a misrepresentation and strongly  objected  to the 
premium increase, I dont think its likely he would  have  paid the extra or accepted 
proportionate cover.
Ref: DRN74251223So even if Mr R had had that discussion with Advantage,  I think  its likely the policy would 
have ended up being cancelled  anyway.  However, I think Advantage should, acting fairly, 
have given Mr R notice of the cancellation and should have allowed him the option of 
cancelling it himself  rather than it being a declarable  insurer cancellation.
Things also went wrong when Advantage cancelled the policy without giving Mr R seven 
days notice so he could find alternative insurance. It shouldnt have  cancelled the policy  
immediately, and it accepts that. 
But I dont think it was the failure to give notice that led to Mrs R driving without  insurance, 
and her subsequent conviction. Ive explained above that even if things had gone right, the 
policy would have ended  up being cancelled  anyway, and that would have happened around 
the same time. 
In any case, Mr R clearly knew the policy was cancelled with effect from 16 May 2018.  The 
cancellation is very clear that the policy has been cancelled and no insurance is in place. 
Mr R immediately  replied to the email  disputing  Advantages right to cancel  the policy and 
saying he was appealing  to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So he received the 
cancellation and understood its contents.
On 21 May, Advantage replied and asked for more information about  his concerns. Mr R 
replied stating that he did not think Advantage could ask him to pay more money or cancel the 
policy. A few days later, Mrs R was stopped by police.
Im afraid I dont agree with our adjudicator that Advantage is responsible for Mrs Rs 
conviction. It did make mistakes  but as Ive said, I think the policy would  always have  been 
cancelled anyway.  
And, importantly,  Advantages letter was clear  that the policy had been cancelled. Mr R 
received the letter and understood  its contents.  Nothing in Advantages reply  could have  led 
him to believe  that the cancellation had been rescinded  or overturned, or suspended pending 
an investigation of his complaint. So while  I think its clear  Mr R was disputing  Advantages 
right to cancel  the policy, its also clear that it had in fact done so  rightly  or wrongly. And 
while it hadnt  given notice before cancelling,  Mr R knew it had been cancelled. I think  Mr and 
Mrs R should have  understood that the policy  had been cancelled, even  though they thought 
that was unfair, and therefore that their car couldnt be driven until alternative cover had been 
found or Advantage agreed to reinstate it.
So I dont think its fair to ask Advantage  to pay Mrs Rs fine, or to compensate her for the 
distress of being stopped by police, or taken to court.  Its said its willing to provide a letter of 
indemnity, so thats a course thats still open  to Mrs R if she wants to pursue  it, or take legal  
advice about it.
Where Advantage  went wrong in this case was in cancelling the policy without considering the 
other alternatives Ive set out, and without giving notice first. Its offered £175 compensation 
for that, which I think is fair in all the circumstances.  It should also allow the cancellation to be 
recorded as cancellation  by Mr R, not by Advantage.
Advantage accepted my provisional  decision, but Mr and Mrs R didnt. They  said:
Mr R responded to the cancellation  email the same day rejecting  it. Advantage didnt 
reply straightaway, and when  it did, it didnt do what it should have done;
My finding that Mr R knew of the cancellation ignores this history,  that Advantage 
hadnt responded properly when it discovered  the issue, and didnt respond  to his 
rejection of the cancellation except to ask for more information;
Ref: DRN74251224An insurance company cant cancel a policy if its not entitled to, so even if it told Mr 
R of the cancellation it shouldnt have  been  cancelled;
Its not right to assume that the policy would always  have  been  cancelled anyway, if 
Mr R was presented with options;
Mr and Mrs R would  never  drive if they believed  they were uninsured. Its not 
reasonable to say they would and Mr R didnt believe the policy  had been cancelled,  
but thought there  had been an error;
Being  stopped by the police and the subsequent conviction had a significant impact  
on Mrs R and their family.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further points Mr R has made, but I havent changed my mind about what 
I said in my provisional decision. Mr R hasnt  disputed my finding that he didnt declare the 
endorsement on his licence, should have  done so, and that therefore there was a 
misrepresentation.
So the issue  in this case is about  what the outcome of that misrepresentation should have 
been. As I said in my provisional  decision,  Advantage  should have offered Mr R the option of 
proportionate cover or cancelling the policy himself,  and it didnt  do so. But at the time, and 
since, Mr R has disputed strongly that there was a misrepresentation. I dont think, on 
balance, that its likely  he would have accepted proportionate cover  or agreed to pay a 
higher premium, so the policy would always have ended up being  cancelled anyway, even if 
Advantage had communicated  better and done the right thing.
In any case, the fact is the policy had been cancelled.  The email from Advantage, replied to 
by Mr R, was very clear about that. And while Mr R disputed its right to do that, he couldnt 
reasonably have been under the impression that the policy  was still in place. And while  
Advantage did later ask for more  information, nothing in what  it said,  in my view, gives  the 
impression that the cancellation had been  rescinded  or overturned.  So, whether or not they 
agreed that the policy had been  cancelled fairly, Mr and Mrs R knew   or ought to have 
known  that it had been  cancelled and hadnt  been reinstated.  Mr R says he and Mrs R 
would never  intentionally drive without insurance, and I dont doubt what  he says. But I think 
the cancellation notice was clear,  there  was nothing to suggest that Advantage had reversed 
the cancellation, and so Mr and Mrs R reasonably ought to have understood that they in fact 
had no insurance  in place. I dont think it would  be fair to hold Advantage responsible for the 
consequences of that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs R £175 compensation;
Record the policy as having been cancelled by Mr R, not Advantage; and
Give Mrs R a letter  of indemnity if she requests one.
Ref: DRN74251225Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7425122