K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains about four instalment loans that she took out with Gain Credit LLC,  trading 
as Lending Stream,  (LS). The complaint is brought to this service  on Ms Ms behalf by a 
firm of solicitors.  But for ease I shall refer below  to all actions being taken by Ms M.
background 
Ms M took out four instalment  loans with LS. Loan 1 was repayable  by five monthly 
instalments and Loan 3 by four monthly instalments.  Loans  2 and 4 were  repayable  by six 
monthly instalments.  The monthly instalments were of varying amounts for each loan, but 
the highest instalment amount for each  loan is shown below. Ms M had also taken an 
instalment loan from LS in July 2011.  Ms M has agreed to withdraw this from her complaint. 
A summary  of the loans  taken out by Ms M which we are considering is shown below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Highest instalment amount
1. 8/9/11 21/11/11 £125 £68.75
2. 5/12/11 31/5/12 £345 £172.50
3. 13/2/12 31/5/12 £95 £60.17
4. 1/6/12 Unpaid £255 £127.50
Ms M said the loans  were unaffordable,  taking account of her income and expenditure at the 
time of drawdown. And taking account  of her financial  history,  she wasnt  creditworthy. All 
loans but Loan 4 have  been repaid. The balance on Loan 4 has been sold to a third party 
(T).
LS said that prior to giving the loans, it had asked Ms M for details of her income and 
expenditure. It had also checked details held by a credit reference  agency. It said that 
Ms Ms credit scores  were deemed acceptable.   
The adjudicator said that the checks LS had made  on Loans  1 to 2 were sufficient, but that 
LSs checks  on Loans 3 and 4 didnt go far enough.  And if LS had done better checks,  it 
would have seen  that Ms M couldnt  afford Loans  3 and 4. So, she concluded that LS 
should:
 - Refund  all interest and charges that Ms M paid on Loans 3 and 4;
 - Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date
   of settlement*;
 -Remove any negative information  about Loans 3 and 4 from Ms Ms credit
  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Ms M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If LS intends to apply the 
refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
LS responded on 6 November 2018  to say that considering the points that had been raised 
by the adjudicator, it would agree to refund the interest and charges  paid towards Loans 3 
and 4 amounting  to £229.23 (£162 for interest paid and £67.23  for 8% annual interest on the 
interest paid net of 20% mandatory  tax (amounting to £16.81)  per HMRC  regulation).  LS 
Ref: DRN78119442also said that it would remove any adverse  information about Loans  3 and 4 from Ms Ms 
credit file.
LS also said that the ownership  of Loan 4 had been  transferred to T, and it would  be in a 
position to buy back the loan if the account  hadnt  been closed with T. It had checked with T 
if Ms M had made any payments to T for Loan  4, and as of 6 November 2018, Ms M had 
paid £155.98 to T.
LS said that Loan 4 is outstanding with it with a principal  balance of £255.  It would  adjust the 
payment of £155.98  towards the outstanding  principal balance of £255.  Post adjustment, the 
outstanding principal to be recovered would be £99.02.
LS also said that the refundable amount of £229.23 could be adjusted towards the 
outstanding principal balance of £99.02. So post adjustment, the net refundable amount 
would be £130.21.  LS said that Ms M may have  paid T more  since November 2018 and such 
payments would also be included in any refund calculations. But LS said that the outstanding 
balance of £255 was only with it and didnt include debts with debt collection agencies,  if 
any.Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendations  as she had paid such  a high 
amount of interest.  She asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As LS has offered  to settle Loans  3 and 4, I wont investigate NLs affordability  assessments 
for these  loans below.  I note that LS has agreed  to refund the interest and charges  paid both 
to it and to T in respect of Loans 3 and 4 and to buy back Loan 4 and set the refunded  
amounts against  the principal of £255  owed to it. But it wasnt clear to me whether LS would 
refund unpaid interest and charges included in the outstanding Loan 4 balance  if it was 
unable to buy the loan back from T. And I also couldnt see that LS had dealt with the 
process of making  amendments to Ms Ms credit file if it was unable  to buy back  the loan. So 
I asked the adjudicator to send LS a draft of my proposed award  for Loans 3 and 4 which 
took these issues  into account as well as the offer made by LS and asked  for LSs 
comments. LSs response didnt  comment on my draft award  but referred to its email of 
6 November 2018 which Ive referred to above.
I also note that Ms M has withdrawn her complaint about the instalment loan she took out in 
July 2011. But Ill take this into consideration when  assessing her other loans.
LS was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to make sure Ms M could 
afford to repay each  of the loans before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Ms M was borrowing, the length of the 
agreements and her lending history. But there  was no set list of checks LS had to do. 
The guidance in place at the time of the loans (The Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance) sets out the lenders responsibility to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that a borrower can sustainably  repay  their loans. It said that assessing 
affordability is a borrower-focussed  test which  involves a creditor  assessing a borrowers  
ability to undertake a specific  credit  commitment,  or specific additional credit commitment,  in 
Ref: DRN78119443a sustainable  manner, without the borrower  incurring (further)  financial difficulties. The 
guidance also said that repaying credit  in a sustainable manner meant  being  able to repay  
credit out of income and/or available savings and without undue difficulty. And it defined  
undue difficulty as being able to repay credit while also meeting other debt repayments 
and normal/reasonable outgoings and without  having to borrow further  to meet  these 
repayments
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low when 
compared to Ms Ms declared disposable  income, or that she was able to repay most of the 
loans in full, doesnt necessarily mean the loans were affordable and that she was able to 
repay them in a sustainable manner . So, I cant assume that because  Ms M was able to 
repay most of the loans in full that she was able to do so out of her normal income without 
having to borrow  further. 
LS told us that before lending to Ms M, it had asked her about her normal income, and 
monthly expenditure, from which it calculated Ms Ms disposable income. It also said that her 
credit scores  were acceptable. It made  searches of the credit reference agencies  but hasnt 
provided us with copies of those.  
My decision  on affordability is only concerned with Loans 1 and 2. I may also refer to Ms Ms 
earlier loan in July 2011, but only to provide context in terms of the lending  history.
Ms M applied for Loan 1 less than two months after the July 2011 Loan was taken out. The 
loan amount had reduced to £125  and the five monthly loan repayments  were for amounts 
up to £68.75. As the repayments  were being  made in some  of the same months as those for 
the July 2011 Loan, the highest joint repayment  was £169.45. But even looking at the 
combined amounts  Ms M had borrowed, I dont think these would have been sufficient to 
suggest that further checks were needed.  I think the combined repayments were still 
relatively modest compared  to Ms Ms declared disposable income  of £330. So, I think that 
LSs checks  were sufficient here.  And I dont think LS did anything wrong in giving Loan  1 to 
Ms M.
I note that Ms M repaid  the July 2011  Loan and Loan 1 on 21 November 2011  and she 
borrowed Loan 2 two weeks later. I note that the loan amount had increased  to £345 and I 
think LS might have  been concerned about  the frequency  of Ms Ms borrowing. But I also 
note that LS said that Ms Ms regular expenditure amounted to £330 and her disposable 
income had increased  to £758. I cant be sure that these were  correct as the figures were 
the same  amounts as Ms M declared  for Loan 1 but the other  way round (i.e. expenditure of 
£758 and disposable income  of £330). But even if Ms Ms disposable income was £330 for 
Loan 2, I think  the highest  repayment  of £172.50  for Loan 2 wouldnt have been  sufficient  to 
suggest that further checks were needed.  So again I think  that LSs checks were  sufficient  
and proportionate here and I cant say that LS was wrong to give Loan 2 to Ms M.
I note that Ms M is unhappy about  the amount of interest she paid on the loans. But I can 
see that she would have known about  the interest rate and the amounts of interest  payable  
on each loan which were  set out on the front page  of each loan agreement. The agreement 
said that it should be signed  only if the signatory wanted to be legally bound by its terms. So 
I think Ms M was responsible for ensuring  that she understood what she was entering into.
I also appreciate from having  seen Ms Ms bank statements that Ms Ms financial situation 
was much worse than she told LS. But I think LS was entitled  to rely on the information Ms M 
provided at the time of Loans 1 and 2, and that suggested the loans were affordable. 
Ref: DRN78119444As stated above, LS has agreed to compensate Ms M for Loans  3 and 4 and it hasnt 
provided any comments on the draft award Id sent it. As my draft award dealt with what 
should happen if LS was unable to buy back Loan 4, I think it fair for it to apply here.
So I think LS should:-
1.Refund all the interest  and charges  applied  to Ms Ms account for Loan 3 and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
2.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Ms M has paid on Loan 4, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. As the balance on Loan 4 has been  transferred  to T, LS should also 
refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the outstanding balance  
on Loan 4 (since T will expect to collect this money from Ms M).
3.As Loan  4 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Ms M in full and no 
deductions should be made  by LS. But, if LS buys Loan 4 back  from T within  21 days 
of Ms Ms acceptance of my decision, it may apply  the refunds referred to above to 
reduce any capital outstanding on Loan  4, and pay any balance to Ms M; and
4.Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit  file with regard to Loan 3 
(and Loan 4 if LS buys it back). If Loan 4 has to remain with T, then LS is to assist 
Ms M, so far as it is able, to correct  her credit file record. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Ms M a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If LS intends to apply 
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream,  (LS) to:-
1.Refund all the interest  and charges  applied  to Ms Ms account for Loan 3 and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
2.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Ms M has paid on Loan 4, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. As the balance on Loan 4 has been  transferred  to T, LS should also 
refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the outstanding balance  
on Loan 4 (since T will expect to collect this money from Ms M).
3.As Loan  4 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Ms M in full and no 
deductions should be made  by LS. But, if LS buys Loan 4 back  from T within  21 days 
of Ms Ms acceptance of my decision, it may apply  the refunds referred to above to 
reduce any capital outstanding on Loan  4, and pay any balance to Ms M; and
4.Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit  file with regard to 
            Loan 3 (and Loan 4 if LS buys it back). If Loan 4 has to remain with T, then LS is to 
assist Ms M, so far as it is able, to correct her credit file record. 
Ref: DRN78119445*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Ms M a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If LS intends to apply 
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7811944