K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr L says he cant  remember if he took out PPI. Ive seen  a copy  of Mr Ls signed credit 
card application.  And on it I can see a printed  x next to where it says Credit Card  
Repayments Cover. As the sale took place in one of Halifaxs branches, I think  its most 
likely a detailed discussion took place. And I think Halifax  most  likely made  it clear  that 
Mr L didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, I think  that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to 
have had a need  for the cover.   
I note Mr L says nothing was explained to him. And I accept its possible the information 
Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But he chose to 
take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mr L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.  
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7105493