K822xcomplaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) disclosed personal  information to a 
third party. She would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
background 
Ms J says in February 2019 she gave her mother  £50 to deposit into Ms Js account. She 
says when her mother did this in branch; Barclays not only gave her mother a receipt for the 
transaction but also a bank statement for Ms Js account.
Ms J says not only did Barclays disclose personal  information without her consent, but it also 
caused a lot of distress  to her and her family.
Barclays acknowledged it had made  a mistake  and offered Ms J £150 compensation.
Our investigator acknowledged  Barclays had made  a mistake. She considered Ms Js 
request for £450 compensation .But felt Barclays revised offer of £250 compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Barclays accepted  this view but Ms J didnt. She said she felt extremely distressed and 
embarrassed about the situation which had caused her family  upset and distress. She said 
Barclays had not apologised. She felt it should  take full responsibility for disclosing her 
personal information to a third party. And she wanted to know what  steps had been put in 
place to make sure this didnt happen again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J feels  strongly about this and I do appreciate why. So I realise  she is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same view as our investigator.
I dont think there is any dispute that Barclays gave a statement of Ms Js account to her 
mother even though Barclays didnt accept this until Ms J provided proof. Clearly shouldnt  
have done so. The main issue for me seems  to be the level of compensation  Barclays  has 
offered £250.  Ms J asked for £450.
I do appreciate a mistake  has been  make. And I have no doubt this would have caused 
some distress both to Ms J and her family.
Ms J hasnt given us any evidence of any loss she has suffered as a result of Barclays 
mistake that I could take into account.  I do feel that Barclays revised  offer of £250  
compensation for distress and inconvenience  if fair in the circumstances. I appreciate  that 
isnt what Ms J wanted .But I do believe its a fair offer so I leave it to Ms J to accept it or not.
I appreciate Ms J has also said that she has had no apology  from Barclays. The final 
response letter from the bank apologised that Ms J had cause to complain. But at that point 
it didnt feel it had made a mistake.
Ref: DRN77916882I think the fact Barclays offered compensation as soon as it realised it had made  a mistake,  
whilst not an apology,  does show it appreciated it had made a mistake and its actions had 
impacted on Ms J and her family.
Ms J has also asked  what Barclays  has done  to ensure this doesnt  happen  again.  When  we 
look at complaints we only consider what the business has done and what  impact that has 
had on the complainant. However in this case I understand  Barclays has spoken to the 
branch in question  so hopefully that should  help avoid a similar situation in the future.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has made a fair offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7791688