K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably in administering her mortgage  and when she was in financial difficulties. She 
wants the information requested and matters put right.
background
Mrs H had a mortgage  with Halifax taken out through a broker  in 2007  and then borrowed 
more money in 2009. She got into financial difficulties  after her business  failed and, after a 
suspended possession order was obtained,  added the arrears  to her mortgage  balance 
(consolidation) in 2015. Mrs H said that she didnt understand  how her mortgage balance  
had been calculated and was struggling to get the information she needed  from Halifax. 
Mrs H also questioned whether the mortgage  shouldve been given to her in the first place  
and said her family were  helping her pay the mortgage. Mrs H said that shed tried to 
remortgage in 2016 or 2017  but the application  wasnt progressed.
Mrs H complained to Halifax. It said the application had been completed  electronically by her 
broker and it was the brokers role to collect  the evidence about  the affordability  of the 
mortgage and the repayment plan (which it said it had been told was to use savings or 
pension monies)  this meant that it couldnt  send her all the information  she wanted  but it 
sent what it could.  Halifax also said that it was the brokers role to check that the mortgage 
was suitable for Mrs H. It explained that the mortgage balance had been  increased by the 
mortgage arrears and interest and set out how the debt had been calculated.  Halifax also 
said Mrs Hs remortgage application hadnt  progressed as its staff couldnt contact her. It 
paid £150 compensation  for the delay in responding to Mrs Hs complaint and incorrect  
information given  previously.
Mrs H complained to us. The adjudicators view was that the sale of the mortgage was the 
responsibility of the broker so she wouldnt  deal with that issue.  She also didnt  think that the 
complaint should  be upheld  as the adjudicator said that Mrs Hs financial difficulties were 
caused by the failure of her business, not Halifax. She said that Halifax  had tried to agree a 
repayment plan for the arrears but it hadnt  been  possible  as Mrs H refused to give Halifax 
details of her income and spending and the arrears increased. This was why the court  
issued the suspended possession order, which  set out a repayment plan. The adjudicator 
said that Halifax had treated  Mrs H fairly. She also said that Halifax had provided  statements 
to Mrs H showing how the debt had been  calculated,  and refunded  £1,015 of fees, together  
with 8% interest. The adjudicator accepted that Halifax hadnt  been able to contact Mrs H 
about her remortgage, which meant  that it was fair and reasonable to end the application. 
Mrs H disagreed. She said that Halifax hadnt tried to contact her about the remortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wont  look at whether the mortgage was 
mis-sold as Halifax wasnt responsible for this. Mrs H hasnt complained about the fee refund 
so I also wont comment on that.
Mrs Hs remaining complaints can be split into three   has Halifax  treated her fairly when she 
was in financial difficulties, did Halifax give her enough information  about the mortgage, and 
did Halifax act fairly  and reasonably when dealing with her remortgage application in 2017?
Ref: DRN78893792Lenders are required to treat consumers in financial difficulties fairly, but this doesnt mean 
they cant ask for payment or take action.  In Mrs Hs case,  she lost her business, became 
bankrupt and got into arrears; she was clearly  in financial  difficulties  and may be again now. 
But having  looked at the evidence available to me, which includes notes written by Halifax at 
the time,  Mrs H wasnt willing to talk to Halifax about  her problems and give details of her 
income and spending. Lenders  must  be satisfied  that any repayment  plan for arrears is 
affordable so if a consumer wont give the necessary information, they cant  agree a plan. 
And I note that Halifax waited a period before going  to court.  I cant look behind  a court 
order, but suspended possession orders are only given by a judge if the repayment plan 
looks affordable. After the order was made,  Halifax later worked  with Mrs H to consolidate 
the arrears. It also updated  her about the arrears through letters and yearly statements. I 
think it acted fairly.  And if Mrs H is now in financial difficulties, Halifax  remains willing  to work 
with her again.
Halifax has given Mrs H and this service  copies of the statements which show how the debt 
was calculated. Arrears  inevitably increase  the mortgage balance.  And while Mrs H may 
want more information  about the original loan, Halifax cant  give information  it doesnt hold. I 
dont think Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably, but I think  £150 compensation for the 
delay in responding to her complaint and the incorrect information is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  Much of Mrs Hs upset is about issues for which  I havent  found 
Halifax to be at fault.
Finally, having seen the evidence available to me (including emails and notes made at the 
time), I think the remortgage application  was ended because Halifax  couldnt reach Mrs H. 
That isnt unfair  or unreasonable  as applications  cant be left open for lengthy  periods. I note 
that Mrs H said to the adjudicator that she wouldve been contactable, but she also said in 
her complaint that she didnt contact Halifax due to her health.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7889379