K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Miss D complain  about  U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) service when they made  a 
claim on their travel  insurance policy. My references to UKI include  its agents including  its 
emergency assistance team.
background
Miss D has family travel insurance through her bank account. The insurer is UKI.
Unfortunately while  the family were abroad  on holiday Miss D was pick pocketed.  Her 
money, phone,  and another  item were  stolen. She contacted  UKI to claim for the emergency 
funds under the travel policy as she said they had no money for the remaining six days  of 
their holiday.
Mr J and Miss D are very unhappy at how UKI dealt with the claim. In summary, they say:
UKI kept saying it needed different documents to support  their claim including  a 
police report. UKI said they hadnt  provided  a proper police report
UKIs male representative  in the emergency  assistance team who spoke to them 
about the circumstances was aggressive  and abrupt  and laughed. He told Miss D  
water was free at the hotel (which it wasnt) and their children could survive on water 
for the next six days
UKI didnt help them and gave them no money for the remaining days of the holiday
On their return to the UK Miss D had a kidney infection and the doctor said it was 
probably caused by drinking the water abroad
They complained  to UKI who didnt respond  to them within the day it said it would.  
They wanted  the claim excess waived and £600 compensation. UKI told them  if they 
wanted more than the £200 it offered they would  have to wait for an investigation  
which they thought was a bullying  tactic.
UKI accepted its representative in the emergency assistance team was abrupt and that it 
should have handled the claim  better. It paid £200  compensation  for Mr J and Miss Ds 
trouble and upset  at the former and £100  for poor for claim handling, so £300  compensation 
in total. It also paid their theft claim. 
Mr J and Miss D say £300 isnt enough and want a serious offer  of compensation  from UKI.
Our investigator thought UKIs £300  compensation payment was fair.
Mr J and Miss D dont  agree and want an ombudsmans decision. And Miss D pointed  out 
that although her mother-in-law had transferred money to them  while they were  on holiday it 
was only £150,  not the £250 UKI would have paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I think UKIs  £300  compensation payment for 
Mr J and Miss Ds distress and inconvenience was fair. Ill explain why.
The policy says where a policyholder makes a claim for stolen personal money: 
Ref: DRN79021772A cash advance of up to £250 can be arranged if your personal  money  is lost or 
stolen and you are unable to obtain  sufficient funds locally. Any cash advance paid 
will be deducted from your claim settlement.
The policy is also clear that to claim a policyholder has to:
Report any loss to the Police within 24 hours of its discovery and obtain a Police  
report from them
Provide us with receipts  for the amount of money  you are claiming to substantiate 
your claim.
You must provide us with as much information  as possible to substantiate your claim, 
e.g. mini bank statements  to show you had the money prior to the loss.
So when Miss D contacted UKI to explain the situation UKI reasonably  asked for a police 
report and bank statements to substantiate  the claim.
Ive listened to the calls Miss D had with UKI. Miss D was understandably  very stressed 
about the situation. She told UKI that the police wouldnt provide a police  report  as she didnt 
have full details  about the stolen phone. UKI did initially suggest if Miss D got a document 
from the hotel manager  confirming the theft then its managers could assess the information. 
UKI didnt  say that letter alone would be enough to have the claim accepted. 
In the second  call UKI asked for Miss Ds bank statements and stressed the importance of a 
police report. UKI offered its translation service when Miss D went to the police station so it 
could help with the problem she was having with the police, but Miss D didnt  take up that 
offer.
Miss D did provide a virtual complaints office form but UKI wouldnt accept that as a police 
report. From UKIs information about  that form Im satisfied the form wasnt  a police report. 
UKI ultimately decided  to settle the theft claim without any further information when 
Mr J and Miss D had returned to the UK. 
UKI accepts  it asked for the information it required to settle  the claim in stages, instead of 
making it clear to Miss D at the beginning exactly what it wanted.  It also accepts it settled the 
claim with the information it had after Miss Ds initial calls.  
UKI paid £100  compensation  for the stress  its handling of the claim caused.  I think thats a 
fair amount. Although  UKI decided to settle  the claim without further information it fairly 
asked for the information. The policy terms require the documents  and Mr J and Miss D 
needed to substantiate their claim.
Ive also listened  to the call Miss D then Mr J had with UKIs male  representative.  UKI accept 
its representative was abrupt,  and I think he was. The questions UKIs  representative  asked 
about the whole situation were reasonable but the tone in which he asked some of the 
questions wasnt appropriate.
UKIs representative asked Miss D what basis the family were staying at the hotel and 
Miss D said half-board but the children didnt eat the relevant  countrys  food. UKIs 
representative then said he wasnt as concerned as he was when Miss D said her children 
hadnt eaten as the children had access to food and drink. Miss D said they had to pay for 
drinks and UKIs representative said they could have water. UKIs representative didnt 
Ref: DRN79021773specifically say the children could survive  on water for six days. He didnt laugh, as 
Mr J and Miss D suggest.
Mr J came to the phone and said UKIs representatives attitude and way hed spoken  to 
them was making  Mr J close the claim and make  a complaint. Mr J and Miss D say UKI's 
representative told them to go away  but Ive listened to the conversation  on that matter and 
UKIs representative wasn't  telling them to go away from the call.
Mr J and Miss D were  clearly in a stressful  situation.  But UKI reasonably asked them  to 
provide the police report and other  information. UKI did decide to pay the claim for theft on 
the information it had when they returned home which I think has led Miss D and Mr J to 
believe UKI acted unfairly in not giving them a cash advancement on holiday. But without  the 
police report and other information  to substantiate  their claim UKI acted fairly in not giving 
them the cash advancement. 
 
Mr J and Miss D say that Miss Ds kidney infection  on her return was probably caused  by 
drinking the water abroad. Ive seen no medical evidence to support that, and as Ive said 
I think UKI acted fairly in not giving the cash advancement while they were  abroad.
Mr J and Miss D also say UKI didnt respond  to them  in a reasonable timescale and they felt 
bullied into accepting UKIs offer as it said they had to wait for an investigation.  The rules 
set by the Financial  Conduct Authority give businesses up to eight weeks to respond to a 
complaint and UKI responded to them much sooner. Theres no evidence  that UKI bullied 
Mr J and Miss D or put them under pressure to accept the compensation offer.
UKI's total payment of £300 compensation for Mr J and Miss Ds distress  and inconvenience 
due to the unreasonable issues with its overall service was fair. UKI doesn't  need to pay 
Mr J and Miss D any more compensation.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7902177