K821x#15complaint
Mr P says he had a number of problems with his personal bank account with TSB Bank  plc.
background
In April 2018 TSB moved its customers to a new computer system. There  were widespread 
and well-publicised  problems with this migration, which  affected  a lot of customer  accounts  
including Mr Ps. Mr P said he couldnt  make  payments from his current  account and his card 
sometimes didnt work  in the ATM. He also said he had trouble logging  in online and TSB 
couldnt find his infant daughters account.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ps complaint. She thought TSB should pay £150 for 
the trouble and upset the migration problems had caused Mr P. And she said TSB should 
also refund  some charges and interest  it had applied to Mr Ps account because  hed had to 
use his arranged overdraft.  
TSB agreed  with what the adjudicator said, but Mr P didnt. He said he hadnt been  able to 
move money into his personal account,  which meant it went  overdrawn and TSB unfairly 
charged him for this. He said TSB then stopped him using  his arranged overdraft, so he 
couldnt pay his credit card bill or buy food for his family  and he had to shop cheaply and 
rely on fast-food, which affected his health. He was also unhappy that TSB had recorded 
adverse information  on his credit file. 
As this complaint  couldnt be resolved informally it was referred to me, and I issued  a 
provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint at the same time as my provisional  
decision on a complaint about  Mr Ps business  account. I explained  that one issue  crosses 
both complaints, which was that Mr P said he couldnt make payments from the business 
account and so couldnt pay his salary into his personal account. 
In my provisional decision about  the business  account I noted that Mr P had still been able to 
make some payments out of that account by asking the branch to do it for him. And I couldnt 
see why Mr P wouldnt also have  been  able to ask the branch to move  his salary over in the 
same way  or by using telephone banking instead   if he didnt want to use the overdraft on 
his personal account.  
Because of this, I didnt agree that TSB was responsible for Mr P using the arranged 
overdraft on his personal account   or for the modest amount of interest and charges  hed 
run up as a result. But I asked TSB to let me know whether it was still willing  to refund the 
interest and charges anyway. 
I also thought  about the credit card fees Mr P said hed been charged because  he couldnt 
pay his credit card from his TSB account.  The evidence Mr P sent to us showed that the fees 
were for late payments or for going  over his credit limit  but that most  of them dated back  to 
well before the April 2018  migration. And I could also see from Mr Ps personal account 
statements that hed been able to make frequent payments to his credit card provider before 
and after the migration. So I didnt agree that TSB had caused  the credit  card fees.
Ref: DRN78544762I also looked at what Mr P told us about  being unable to use his overdraft.  His bank 
statements showed he had a large arranged  overdraft in place  and hed gone well into that 
overdraft by July 2018  when he moved to another bank. But he still had available overdraft 
capacity left on his account and TSB said it hadnt changed or blocked the overdraft before 
Mr P moved his account away.
Mr Ps bank  statements  clearly showed  that hed still been able to use his debit card several  
times a day right up to the point he moved his account. And there was no evidence of any 
declined payments. So I couldnt  see anything  to suggest that TSB had stopped  Mr P using 
the overdraft on his account to buy food for himself and his family, or to buy other  items as 
necessary.
I did accept that  in common  with a lot of other TSB customers  after the April 2018 
migration  Mr P was likely to have had some problems accessing his personal account at 
various times. Hed also said that at one point branch  staff couldnt find his infant daughters  
account. I accepted  this would have been  frustrating  and worrying for him. 
But there were also times when Mr P made clear that he could access  his personal account  
and it was the business account he was having  issues with. And his bank statements also 
didnt show any evidence  of significant disruption in the way Mr Ps personal account had 
operated day to day.  
So I concluded that TSB had likely  caused  Mr P some problems accessing his accounts and 
some trouble  and upset  as a result. But also that it was likely any problems Mr P had with his 
personal accounts were  sporadic and short-lived.  Given this, I thought  the £150 the 
adjudicator recommended   and TSB had already agreed to pay  was a fair way to 
compensate Mr P for anything that had gone wrong.
TSBs and Mr Ps response to my provisional  decision
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  findings if there  was anything else they 
wanted me to consider but thought  I hadnt  already seen.   
TSB said that it doesnt now think it should have to refund the overdraft interest and charges.  
Mr P said he disagrees with my provisional  decision on this case  and the related case.  He 
doesnt think Ive taken notice of everything  hes said about the stress and inconvenience not 
being able to access all his accounts caused. Hes asked me to consider all the emails and 
correspondence hes had with us about  his complaints and says he isnt prepared  to accept 
the amount of compensation Ive recommended. He says he was previously told by 
someone at the ombudsman service that he was entitled to a good few thousands of 
pounds in compensation. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I issued my provisional decision in this case (and the related case) I reviewed 
everything Mr P and TSB had said and provided.  That included  listening to the calls Mr P 
had with various people at this service and taking  into account what hes told us and weve  
told him, over the phone and in writing. 
Ref: DRN78544763However, my role as an ombudsman is to look at the whole case with fresh  eyes  and decide 
what I think a fair and reasonable outcome is, in all the circumstances. And thats what Ive 
done here. 
I realise Mr P feels very strongly about his TSB complaints. But after thinking about 
everything again and also looking at what hes now said in response to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded to change my findings.
I accept that TSBs migration problems in April 2018  are likely to have had some impact  on 
Mr P  and are likely  to have caused him some problems accessing  his personal accounts.  
But the evidence  Ive seen doesnt support  what Mr P has said about the level of impact this 
had. 
Im satisfied that Mr P could, and frequently did, make payments to his credit card provider 
from his personal account. So any late payment or over-limit fees he was charged  by that 
provider dont seem  to have been  caused by, or be anything to do with, TSB. And Mr P 
clearly was able to use the arranged overdraft on his personal  account to buy food, pay for 
shopping and pay a variety of retailers  right up to the point he moved to another bank. 
So the evidence  doesnt support Mr Ps submission  that TSB made  him incur charges, 
stopped him from using  his overdraft, or stopped  him being able to buy food for his family.  
And, given  that, I still think £150 is fair compensation for whats likely to have gone  wrong  
here. TSB has now said it isnt willing to refund  the overdraft interest and charges and Id 
have to say that is fair in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive already given.
Mr P moved to a new bank in July 2018  and later moved to a new address. As he hadnt 
paid back any of the overdrawn amount on the account, TSB moved the account  to its 
collections department.  TSB told us it hadnt been able to successfully contact Mr P to come  
to a payment  arrangement.  It said Mr P would have to go into a branch to update  his 
address  but Mr P said he wouldnt do that, and that TSB already knows his new address. 
Hes also previously told us he doesnt think he should have to make any payment to TSB 
because he feels TSB owes him significant  compensation.
Ive already pointed  out to Mr P that, as he used the overdraft money to pay his credit card, 
bills and shopping, its reasonable for TSB to now expect him to pay it back. And TSB is also 
entitled to record  accurate  information  about the account on Mr Ps credit file. Mr P hasnt  
said anything more  about this. But, as Ive concluded that TSB should pay Mr P £150  in 
compensation for this complaint, Mr P will have to decide whether he is now prepared to 
contact TSB to come to some arrangement to pay back  the overdrawn amount on his 
account.  
Given the issues over his address and the fact that hes now changed bank, I also remind 
Mr P that  if he ultimately  decides  to accept this final decision  he should  let us know  how 
he wants TSB to pay the £150 to him.
Ref: DRN78544764my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, as I accept Mr P is likely to have  
experienced some trouble and upset  as a result  of TSBs April 2018 migration problems. 
So I direct TSB Bank plc to put things right by paying Mr P a total of £150.  I make no other 
order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7854476