K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1988 
alongside a mortgage. Mr M says Bradford  & Bingley plc (B&B) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he was told he had to take out the PPI and that it wouldve had a negative  impact 
on his application  if he didnt. Hes also told us that he was bullied into taking out the PPI by 
B&B and he felt that he didnt have a choice. Ive thought carefully  about  this and while  I 
dont doubt what  hes said are his honest  recollections of the sale,  Ive also not seen 
anything else to support  these allegations. Ive also considered that this policy  was sold a 
long time ago  about 31 years ago  which is something I have to keep in mind when 
deciding what I think is more likely to have  happened.  And without any evidence to support 
what hes said its difficult for me to rely on what hes said alone to conclude that something 
untoward happened.  
B&B says that PPI was never a condition of taking out a mortgage with it and it wouldve 
made it clear  to Mr M that it was his choice  whether  or not to take out the policy. I wasnt 
present at the meeting  so I cant fairly  and reasonably say what  was discussed and what  
Mr M was told at the time.  But I have seen a copy of Mr Ms mortgage application  which is 
the strongest  evidence  available. In this there is a section for PPI where the option  for 
accident,  sickness and redundancy cover  has been selected.  The amount of monthly  
benefit was also entered  in this section   recording that Mr M wanted to take out the policy  
with additional  cover for the ongoing PPI payments and other  expenses   making a total of 
£200 benefit at the time of sale. However,  there was the option to decline the cover if Mr M 
didnt want it. Mr M signed this mortgage  application  form  suggesting that he consented to 
the information contained within it. 
Ive seen that Mr Ms complaint is that he was pressured into signing the documents  and 
therefore agreeing  to the policy. But pressure is a serious allegation and one which  has a 
high burden of proof. And without  any evidence  that B&B applied pressure, or more  
persuasive evidence  from Mr M, I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold  the complaint on this 
point. 
So overall, and without stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its likely B&B made it clear 
that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this.
There is some dispute about  whether or not B&B advised Mr M to take out the PPI. B&B 
says that the sale was not advised  and Mr M says that it was. However,  it is not necessary 
for me make a conclusive determination on this point. This is because I have not found that 
Ref: DRN74787792the policy was unsuitable for Mr M for the reasons set out below. So, even  if I assume advice 
was given, it does  not affect  the outcome of this complaint.
In an advised  sale B&B wouldve had to take reasonable steps to ensure the PPI was right 
for Mr M  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. I 
say this because  I havent seen any evidence  that he wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Mr M hasnt  provided evidence of any sick pay or savings that he couldve relied  on to make  
his repayments.  He has told us that his parents couldve supported  him if he needed, but 
help from others cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change. And in the 
absence of any other personal savings or sick pay entitlement,  having  this policy  in place 
meant Mr M didnt have to rely on others to support him. And as Mr M was solely responsible  
for keeping  up his repayments I think he wouldve found the PPI useful had he been  
suddenly unable to work. So I dont think B&B did anything wrong by advising him to take out 
the PPI. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7478779