K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that he was unable to make  an early loan repayment on a loan provided by
Gain Credit LLC,  trading as Lending  Stream, (LS), due to a systems error on LSs system.
He is also unhappy  with LSs customer service.
background
Mr C entered into a loan agreement  with LS on 30 November 2017. The loan amount was
£1,000 to be repaid by six monthly  instalments. The first instalment of £240 was due to be
repaid on 29 December 2017.  LSs loan agreement said that the first instalment was
composed of interest only and the remaining repayments would consist  of part capital and
part interest. Interest  was charged on the loan on a daily basis. The loan agreement  allowed
for early repayments to be made  online or by phone. Mr C tried to make an early payment of
£40 on 4 December  2017 but was unable to do so due to an internal  systems error. Mr C
tried again  to make the payment on the following day but was again unable  to do so for a
similar reason.
Mr C then went away and because it would  have cost too much to contact LS, he waited
until he returned home to contact LS again. Mr C successfully  made  an early payment online
of £40 on 19 December  2017 on his return. But he was unhappy that he hadnt benefitted
from a reduction in the payment amount that he thought he should have received had he
been able to make an early payment  earlier in the month. Mr C sent LS an email on its
website messaging  system but received no response to this. He then received
communications from LS as he hadnt paid the due instalment on 29 December 2017. So he
phoned LS about its messages but was unhappy  that LS asked him to pay £200. Mr C didnt
think that amount  was correct. So he didnt pay the instalment.
LSs final response letter  said that the interest  and charges had been incurred in accordance
with the terms and conditions of its loan agreement.  It charged 0.8% interest daily on the
capital balance outstanding. And the first payment  due was £240 which was made up of
interest only. But it offered  to remove the £15 arrears fee it had charged.
Mr C didnt think that LS had dealt with his complaint in its final response letter.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator noted that Mr C had made  additional repayments on previous loans with LS
to reduce the amount  of interest  paid and/or  reduce the term of his loans. And he could
understand Mr Cs frustration at not being able to make an early payment in early
December 2017.  He recommended that LS should  recalculate the outstanding balance on
Mr Cs loan as at 29 December 2017, assuming he had been  able to make the intended
payment of £40 on 4 December 2017.  He said that this revised balance should  be further
reduced by any subsequent  repayments  Mr C had made (i.e. actual repayments less the £40
assumed to have  been paid early). In addition, he said that LS should make  a further
reduction of £50 in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter had caused Mr C. He also
said that the recalculated sum due, should be rescheduled over six monthly  repayments  to
be advised to Mr C.
LS responded to say that it would provide a reduction of £50 to Mr C for the distress and
inconvenience caused over his loan.  In addition it would recalculate the outstanding balance
on Mr Cs loan as of 29 December 2017,  assuming that he had been able to make  the
Ref: DRN77581742intended payment  of £40 on 4 December 2017. It also said that if Mr C was facing financial
difficulties, it would extend its support in clearing this debt through an affordable  payment
arrangement.
Mr C disagreed and responded to say that he was already in a repayment  plan with LS. He
also wanted the compensation amount of £50 to be paid directly to him rather  than credited
to his account. He also said that when he made the £40 payment, hed sent LS a message
using its website explaining why hed made a payment of £40 and that if it didnt agree, it
should contact  him. He said that his message was never  replied to. Mr C also said that when
he spoke to LSs representative, he kept giving him the wrong information. LSs
representative kept telling him that his first payment would  have been  for £240 no matter
when the payment would  have been made. And the same happened  when  he was passed
through to LSs supervisor. Mr C said that if hed listened to them, he would have ended  up
paying at least  £250 more.
Mr C didnt think that £50 compensation  was even close for this experience, and was
probably just enough  to pay for all the calls that hed made to LS. He said that he was so
demotivated that hed stopped making  repayments as it felt like LS was just abusing its
power.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to LS on 3 April 2019. I summarise my findings:
I said that as some  of the evidence was either incomplete or contradictory, Id made  a 
decision on what Id thought was most likely  to have happened  based on what  was 
available.
I noted that Mr C had previously had 12 loans with LS. I also noted that he had complained 
that these were lent irresponsibly. I could see that this issue  was being dealt with in a 
separate complaint.
I accepted that Mr C had tried to pay £40 early on 4 and 5 December 2017  and noted  that he
was sent error messages by LS.
Mr C said that he sent a message to LS on the form on LSs website  on 19 December 2017  
to clarify his payment amount but no response  had been received. Mr C didnt have a copy  
of this message  as he said it was impossible for the sender  to retain a copy. But he said that 
LS should  have had a copy of it. Id asked LS for a copy of the message but this hadnt been  
received. On balance,  I thought it was likely that Mr C had sent a message to LS as I could 
see that he was concerned  about the payment  amount.
Mr C then said that he was provided with incorrect  information on his call with LS on
29 December 2017 and if he had listened to what hed been told, he would  have paid £250
too much. Id asked LS if it had a recording of the call between it and Mr C on
29 December 2017. Unfortunately  this hadnt been received. But LS had a note of that call
which said that Mr C had called and that he wouldnt pay the £200 due. LS had said that this
was the due payment and Mr C said that he would call back. He said that he wouldnt pay
the amount.
I asked the adjudicator to raise various  enquiries with LS about the effect of early payments
Ref: DRN77581743on future payments.  In response LS had told this service  that the repayment schedule  would
change every time a consumer made  an additional repayment. LS told us in one email  that
if an early payment was made on 4 December 2017, it would have had the effect of
changing the next due repayment date to January 2018. In another email it said that it would
have had the effect of changing  the next repayment date to February 2018.
I also asked the adjudicator  to ask LS when the next scheduled repayment should  have
been on the basis that Mr C had made an early payment of £40 on 19 December 2017. We
hadnt received  a response to this. But in view of the seemingly conflicting responses  wed 
received from LS, I thought that it was possible on balance that Mr C had received incorrect
information from LS when  he spoke to it on 29 December 2017.  Whilst I noted that LS had 
said that it was retrieving this call, it had had around  six weeks  to provide this and hadnt  
done so. And I didnt  think it was fair to keep Mr C waiting any longer for my decision.
I could see that Mr C had said he made  many  calls to LS and that he thought that £50 
compensation would only be sufficient to pay for the cost of these. I asked Mr C for a copy of 
his phone bills to show the calls hed made  to LS. Hed responded to say that the calls were 
made through an app which didnt keep a copy  of the calls hed made. I thought  it was likely 
that if the calls were made through an app that the cost of such  calls was either  free or 
negligible. But I accepted that Mr C would  have been put to inconvenience  in contacting LS 
about this. 
Id asked LS for its contact notes  with Mr C to see if these showed  the calls from Mr C. 
These appeared to show the contacts  made  by LS rather than those received from Mr C.
I could see that Mr C was unhappy with the way LS had dealt with his complaint.  But as
complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity, I said that I had no power to look at this.
Id noted that Mr C also told us that if this issue had been resolved in December 2017, rather
than involving this service, the loan would  have been paid off months  and months ago. But 
Mr C also said that he had an outstanding balance of £1,040 whilst he waited  for a decision
from this service. He said that we would be able to see from his loan history that he always
repaid his loans  back  in one or two months,  and it would have been the same in this case
too. Mr C said that this loan should be written off and it shouldnt  even show  on his credit file,
as it gave a wrong  impression on what had gone  on.
I could see from LSs note of the call in December 2017 that Mr C had asked it to put a hold 
on his account  as he wanted  to escalate the matter to this service. Hed also asked LS to 
stop the interest charges.  LS said that it wouldnt be able to do this. I thought  it would have 
been reasonable for Mr C to maintain his repayments to LS whilst complaining to this 
service. He had made an early payment of a relatively small proportion of the interest due on 
the loan, so I thought that any resulting adjustment would have been relatively small 
compared to the amount due under the loan. And in considering the complaint,  we would 
normally decide if any refund was payable.
Id also noted  that Mr C had said that he would have repaid the loan off months ago. But I 
wasnt certain that would  have  been the case.  I could see from LSs contact notes that a 
number of loan rejection  contacts were made in December 2017,  as Mr C had made  a 
further loan application to it. Id also noted from Mr Cs credit report  that Mr C had taken out 
other short term credit around that time. Hed taken out loans totalling around £600  in 
December 2017  and loans totalling around  £920  in January 2018.
Ref: DRN77581744But overall, I thought  LS had made errors in its administration of the loan. Its note of the
conversation in December 2017 said that it had been unable to match Mr Cs address
although it was subsequently able to do so. Mr C should have been able to make his early
payment on 4 or 5 December 2017.  He wasnt able to do so because of a systems error.
And because of LSs subsequent errors in how it had administered the loan, by, for example,
not responding to Mr Cs message dated 19 December 2017  to clarify the correct amount
due, and by not it appeared informing him of the correct amount due or perhaps the correct
next payment  date in its call on 29 December 2017,  I thought that Mr C had been  caused
distress and inconvenience. So, I thought that it would be reasonable for LS to pay Mr C
compensation of £100 for all of this. I thought  it would be reasonable for the compensation to
be paid directly to Mr C rather than being  used to reduce the outstanding  balance.
I also thought  that LS should  recalculate the outstanding balance on Mr Cs loan as if he had
been able to make the intended  payment of £40 on 4 December  2017.  This revised balance
should be further reduced by any subsequent  repayments Mr C had made  (that is actual
repayments less the £40 assumed to have been paid early).
As I thought that Mr C should have otherwise made his contractual loan repayments, I didnt 
think that his credit  file should be amended to remove  any adverse entries.
I noted that Mr C currently had a repayment  plan with LS. I said that If he was continuing  to 
experience financial  difficulties, I would remind LS of its responsibility to treat Mr C in a 
positive and sympathetic  manner  about the amounts  he should  repay.
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or LS my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Gain  Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, to:
1. Pay £100 compensation to Mr C; and
2. Recalculate the outstanding balance on Mr Cs loan as if he had been able to make  the   
intended payment  of £40 on 4 December 2017. This revised balance should  be further 
reduced by any subsequent  payments Mr C had made (that is actual payments less the £40 
assumed to have  been paid early).
LS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C accepts
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If LS considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if
appropriate.
LS agreed to the provisional award in my provisional  decision.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed  that he should have kept up his 
repayments but felt helpless  due to what he was being told by LS and he had no knowledge  
of how the product worked. Mr C also said he would have repaid the loan early by borrowing 
elsewhere which he had done to repay his other 12 loans with LS. Mr C also said that £100  
wasnt sufficient compensation especially as LS hadnt co-operated  with his complaint. Mr C 
also said that he was currently experiencing further repayment issues.
Ref: DRN77581745my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr C has agreed that he should  have kept up his repayments. As he was an 
experienced short term loan borrower, I think he would have known that he should have 
done this to comply  with his loan agreement terms, irrespective of his issues with LS. 
I also note that Mr C said that he said he would have repaid the loan early by borrowing 
elsewhere. But in view of the number and increasing  amounts  of loans hed had, I cant be 
sure hed have received  a further  loan to repay  the whole of his borrowing with LS. As I 
noted above, Mr Cs loan application to LS was rejected in December  2017.  
I can also see that Mr C had said that hed borrowed £900 from other lenders in 
January 2018  to repay the loan from LS. But I cant see that Mr C had tried to repay LS that 
month and I note that he had other  credit  with other lenders in arrears at the time which  he 
may have  intended  to pay. So I cant be sure that Mr C intended to repay LS fully in 
January 2018.  
I also note that Mr C doesnt think £100 compensation is sufficient partly because LS hasnt 
co-operated with this complaint. But Ive considered the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr C relating to LSs errors in the administration  of the loan for the purposes  
of assessing compensation.  As Ive said above, complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity.  
So I havent considered awarding  compensation for this here.  
I note that Mr C has complained to this service about further  repayment  issues.  But as LS 
needs to be given the chance to respond  on these, Ive asked the adjudicator to tell Mr C to 
raise a new complaint  about these issues.
Otherwise, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require  LS to pay Mr C some  
compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN77581746my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream,  to:
1. Pay £100 compensation to Mr C; and
2. Recalculate the outstanding balance on Mr Cs loan as if he had been able to make  the   
intended payment  of £40 on 4 December 2017. This revised balance should  be further 
reduced by any subsequent  payments Mr C had made (that is actual payments less the £40 
assumed to have  been paid early).
LS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C accepts
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If LS considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  9 June 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7758174