K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  she was obliged to take out a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy,  
providing life cover  and critical illness cover, for a mortgage loan shed  arranged  with Leeds  
Building Society (LBS)  in September 2011.  
Shes since discovered it was optional  to take out this policy, and wouldnt have done so as 
she owned a second property that was mortgage-free, savings of £10,000 and life cover  
through her employers  pension scheme as insurance for the loan. 
  
background
In response, LBS confirmed that a life assurance policy wasnt a condition of lending.  The 
terms of the mortgage  agreement  required her only to take out buildings  insurance (and not 
necessarily with LBS). But, if she did opt to take out this form of insurance with LBS, she 
received a discount on the monthly  premium.
In September  2011, Miss B was single and in her mid-40s,  with two dependent teenage 
children. Her annual  income at the time isnt given. She already owned a property worth  
£54,000 that was free of mortgage. She held savings  of £10,000 and was entitled to a death-
in-service lump sum of three-times salary through her employers pension  scheme.  Her 
employer also provided sick pay for six months at full pay and for a further  six months at half 
pay. She was proposing to purchase a second  property  for £118,000, for which she 
borrowed £97,000 from LBS on a capital repayment  basis over 20 years.
Miss B was recommended to take out this policy because it enabled the property to be left to 
her children free of debt on her death or would  repay the loan mortgage if she was ever 
unable to work again due to long term illness or incapacity. She was also advised to take out 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  to help pay her mortgage  instalments in the event 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment, which is the subject of a separate  complaint  with our 
service.
One of our adjudicators considered Miss Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
She was satisfied that the policy was a suitable recommendation for her. The advisers 
suitability letter, which summarised  Miss Bs mortgage needs and the advisers 
recommendations, confirmed the policy was intended to meet  her need not to leave a debt 
on the property  for her children.  Also,  critical illness  cover the policy  provided  would repay  
the loan in full if Miss B ever suffered  a serious illness  or injury during the mortgage term.
There was no evidence  that the policy was presented to her as a condition  of the mortgage - 
the only form of insurance required for the loan was buildings  cover.
In response, Miss B didnt  accept the adjudicators assessment and maintained that:
the documentation on which the adjudicator relied to form her conclusion doesnt  
accurately reflect  her dealings with the adviser;
she was led to believe that the mortgage  was conditional on taking out the DTA 
policy;
her need to leave  the property free of debt to her children was proposed by the 
adviser and not by her;
she was assured that she wouldnt  be charged for the advice to take out the policy 
and she was charged in that the adviser  received commission  for the sale;
Ref: DRN74675642she owned a second property worth  £54,000,  plus savings of £10,000, which  could 
have been used to repay any outstanding  loan on her death. Also,  her ex-husband 
lived nearby who would continue to provide for their children;
there was an anomaly  in the mortgage condition for Miss B to take out buildings 
insurance which confirms that this would be provided by LBS. But, elsewhere, the 
loan agreement stated  that cover  didnt need  to be provided through LBS.  
The adjudicator responded to say that, as the two points relating to the payment of 
commission and the ambiguous condition  in the mortgage agreement regarding buildings  
insurance were not previously raised by Miss B, she would need to take these up with LBS 
in the first instance.
   
Otherwise, as no agreement has been reached over Miss Bs complaint that she ought not to 
have taken out the DTA policy, it has been  referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
LBS didnt require Miss B to take out life assurance cover to protect  this loan in 2011 and 
Ive seen no evidence  she was told this. Section 9 of the mortgage  agreement required her 
only to take out buildings insurance as a condition  of borrowing. Payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) was presented as optional and life assurance cover  for the loan wasnt  
mentioned at all.
So, notwithstanding what Miss B has said, I would have to conclude that she was 
recommended to take out the DTA policy to repay  the outstanding  balance of the loan in the 
event of her death  or on suffering a critical illness. 
I, therefore, must decide whether, on balance,  this was an appropriate recommendation for 
her, given her circumstances  at the time.
It does seem from the points made by Miss B that the complaint was triggered by the 
widespread publicity surrounding  the sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI) in so far as 
she refers to the DTA policy as payment protection insurance. Miss B had also been 
recommended a genuine PPI policy as protection for her mortgage repayments  and shes  
complained separately  about this advice.
But, as LBS has already  explained to Miss B, a DTA policy  is not PPI, and the 
considerations for assessing the merits of PPI are not especially relevant to the advice she 
received to take out the DTA policy.
Briefly, a PPI policy would pay an income  benefit  equivalent to the monthly costs of a loan if 
Miss B was ever made unemployed or suffered long term incapacity that prevented  her 
working. 
On the other hand, a DTA policy pays a capital  sum in the event of her death, or on suffering 
a critical illness,  at any time during the policy  term equivalent to the outstanding balance  of 
the mortgage at that time. The outstanding capital loan (which still could have been a 
Ref: DRN74675643significant sum if death or critical illness occurred in the short term) can therefore  be repaid 
in full.
I appreciate that Miss B held life cover within her occupational pension scheme that would 
have been sufficient to repay the outstanding mortgage loan if her pensionable  salary was 
more than £32,000 per annum. But her pension  scheme would not have included critical 
illness benefit that could repay the capital loan if she was no longer able to work  due to a 
serious illness or incapacity.  Her future pension benefits may also be adversely  affected in 
these circumstances.  
Also, critical illness benefit  is not just appropriate to repay the loan; it can otherwise help to 
fund modifications to a property that might be needed to accommodate a particular disability. 
Pension benefits cant be assigned to a lender, as its paid to a nominated  person at the 
discretion of the scheme trustees. Also, Miss B couldnt be sure she would remain  with the 
same employer for the duration of the mortgage  - she may join an employer that doesnt 
offer a pension scheme at all. Miss B was the sole earner in her household and a pension  
lump sum would be essential to help her surviving  children to cover their cost of living, 
including the mortgage instalments if it wasnt repaid from the proceeds of a life assurance 
policy or any other means.
I appreciate their employer may have provided sickness benefit, but this pays  an income for 
a limited period,  which could help to fund her monthly mortgage  payments. But sick pay 
stops after 12 months; critical illness pays a capital sum immediately on diagnosis  of a 
serious illness that could repay the loan itself and Ive seen no evidence  that Miss B already 
held this form of cover  in 2011.
Miss B has also said she could use her savings  and/or the value of her other property to 
repay the outstanding loan on death.  Generally,  Im not persuaded that consumers  would be 
prepared to use their life savings (or any other asset) in this way; especially if they suffer  a 
critical illness and remain alive with financial dependents.
 
Otherwise, I would question why Miss B would borrow a substantial  sum in the first instance 
if she was prepared to make use of life savings etc. (rather than the proceeds  of a life 
assurance policy) to repay the mortgage  that would be essential to continue  providing for 
dependents. 
Also, property sales can take some time to complete and Ive seen no evidence regarding  
the (financial)  arrangements  Miss B may have made with her ex-husband to care for their 
children in the event  of her death. 
On balance, having taken into account  all the points Miss B has raised with regard to the 
sale of this policy, in my view, it provided  cover for her mortgage  that wasnt fully and 
suitably provided  by any other arrangement  she had in place at the time. 
All things  considered, theres no evidence the policy was presented to Miss B as a condition 
of borrowing  and, in any event, I think it wasnt an unsuitable recommendation for her at the 
time.
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN74675644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467564