K820x#14Complaint
Mr T says NRAM Limited (previously trading as Northern Rock) mis-sold him two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
Background
In May and September 2007 Mr T took out two regular premium  PPI policies alongside two 
secured loans with NRAM.  
Most recently our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold.  Mr T didnt agree, so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, NRAM no longer holds copies of the sales  call recordings, so Ive considered  
the available  evidence. That includes sales scripts  from NRAM which  indicate  to me that it 
likely made him aware the PPI was optional and that he probably agreed for it to be added. 
In addition, the loan offer NRAM sent Mr T after the sales call in September  2007 referred to 
the PPI as optional.  This, in my view, would have served to reinforce the message that the 
PPI was separate to the loan and was optional.
I dont believe that NRAM recommended  the PPI to Mr T. But it still had to give him clear, fair 
and non-misleading  information about  the PPI so that he could make a properly informed  
decision about whether it was right for him. I dont know if NRAM did that, but I dont think  
better information would  have  stopped him from buying it anyway. 
I say that based  on what  I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the time. And, in the absence of 
the actual policy wording from the time,  from experience of the types  of things the policies 
sold by NRAM both before and after these  sales covered. 
For example, it appears Mr T would have been eligible for the PPI despite what  hes told us 
about being in temporary  work  at the time. Thats because Ive placed  emphasis on the 
application details  NRAM recorded for both sales at the time, which  show  that Mr T was in 
permanent  rather than temporary  full-time  employment. 
The PPI also required that Mr T have been working  for at least six months  before the start of 
each loan. While that wasnt an issue in September 2007, Mr T suggests in complaining to 
us that hed only been working for two months  when the first policy was sold in May 2007. I 
recognise that NRAMs records from the time indicate Mr T had started with his employer in 
January 2007   so less than six months before the start of the first loan. But theres no 
evidence to show he wasnt  working before starting that job which would mean he hadnt 
been working for long enough to be eligible  for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN75289152Mr T argues he wasnt eligible to claim on the PPI when he made attempts to do so after 
losing his job. However, I havent seen  evidence to show thats why his claim wasnt paid. 
Rather, as I understand it, Mr T never submitted a claim  form. On this point, Id add that its 
still open for Mr T to try to make  a retrospective  claim  for the insurer  to consider.
 
Regarding other aspects  of the sales:
Mr T was unlikely to have been  affected  by any of the other  main  exclusions and 
limitations  for instance,  he hasnt told us he had any pre-existing medical  conditions.  
The PPI covered his loan repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
disablement or unemployment. He says he could  have relied  on family and friends if he 
needed it but, unlike the PPI benefits, that help wasnt guaranteed. The borrowing was 
secured against  his home and so was an important financial commitment. I think  hed 
have valued the protection the PPI offered, especially given  the potentially  serious  
consequences of him defaulting on either  loan.
Ive no reason to believe  hed have  thought  the policies, each with a monthly premium of 
less than £9, were  unaffordable. And, as they were regular premium policies, Mr T could 
have cancelled them at no extra  cost if he felt they no longer met his needs.
All of which means  NRAM doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
NRAM will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:  
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premiums)  so it should have told Mr T about that. Because NRAM didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right,  NRAMs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premiums  and I think that offers  fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premiums. NRAM should also pay back to Mr T any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
NRAM should pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should  also pay Mr T 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so NRAM Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But NRAM Limited does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.  
Ref: DRN75289153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7528915