K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that they were charged an early repayment charge (ERC) because 
Lloyds Bank  PLC wouldnt let them port their mortgage to another  property.
background
Mr and Mrs O had a mortgage  with Lloyds. Theyd  decided to move  to another  property.  But 
their previous interest  rate had expired, so they decided to take out a new fixed  interest rate. 
They applied online to change their mortgage  interest rate and Lloyds  approved the 
application. Once the new rate had been  agreed, their mortgage  became subject to an ERC  
for five years.
Mr and Mrs O were unable to sell their existing property  immediately. They didnt want to 
lose the property  they were  buying.  So they bought it outright. Then when they did sell their 
old property, they applied to port the mortgage  from the old property to the new property. 
Theyd taken out the fixed interest  rate in the expectation theyd be able to do this.
Lloyds refused to allow them to port. It said it was its policy not to allow  porting where the 
new property was already owned  in other words, that porting was only allowed where  the 
mortgage would be used to buy the new property. And it said Mr and Mrs O had applied for 
the new rate online. It didnt give them advice, and it was for Mr and Mrs O to satisfy 
themselves the rate switch  was right for them. If they knew  they wanted to move while the 
mortgage was subject to an ERC, they should  have asked for advice.  
Mr and Mrs O complained. They  said it wasnt fair theyd had to pay the ERC when they sold 
their old property. Before applying online,  theyd  visited  their local branch to explain their 
plans, and had been encouraged to use the online system and not been told there would be 
a problem. Nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions, and nothing in the online 
application portal, said it wasnt possible to port to a property already owned. And if that was 
Lloyds internal policy, it wasnt fair that it wasnt made clear publicly. Lloyds should  be 
required to explain any restrictions on them being able to port so they had enough  
information to make up their own minds.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint, so Mr and Mrs O asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision,
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O applied for their fixed rate online.  The mortgage offer they received   and 
accepted  says that they dont have the right to port their mortgage to another  property. But 
they can apply,  and Lloyds will consider  an application in line with the lending policy at that 
time.
Ive seen Lloyds  lending policy, and it does confirm that porting a mortgage  to a property 
thats already  owned is not permitted   and this is something many lenders have as a policy.  
So Im satisfied that Lloyds applied its policy correctly. Porting their mortgage  in these 
circumstances is not, according to the policy, something Mr and Mrs O were ever entitled  to 
Ref: DRN72860172do. The question  I have to decide is whether  that resulted in a fair outcome in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
It seems  Mr and Mrs O were aware,  before they took out the fixed rate, that they would need 
to port it to a property they would,  by the time of the port, already own.  They  say they told 
their local branch as much, and were encouraged to apply  for the mortgage  online. They  
werent told at that point  that it wouldnt in fact be possible.
Lloyds has no record of the branch visit. It says there isnt a mortgage  adviser  based  at that 
branch, though one does visit and is available from time to time.  But the adviser has no 
recollection of speaking to Mr and Mrs O. Thats perhaps not surprising  since a branch-
based mortgage adviser would see many customers, and wouldnt necessarily remember  
individuals seen  months before.
I dont think Mr and Mrs O were given  formal mortgage advice in the branch. If they were,  
the adviser would  have  submitted the product switch application for them having 
recommended a particular product  rather than leaving  it to them to apply online and select  
a product themselves. I accept Mr and Mrs Os recollection that they did have a conversation 
with someone in the branch, and were directed to the online application channel. But I dont 
think its likely the branch formally advised them what product to select, or advised  them  
about porting  in their specific circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs O submitted  their application  online.  In doing so they didnt seek, and werent 
given, formal mortgage advice. Where a non-advised sale takes  place, Lloyds isnt required 
to advise Mr and Mrs O whether or not the product theyre taking out is right for them  thats 
something they have  to decide for themselves. Lloyds  duty is to provide them  with clear, fair 
and not misleading information so they can make  that assessment.
Mr and Mrs O say it didnt do this. It didnt make it clear in the branch, and they also say that 
nothing in the documentation says they couldnt port in the way they wanted  and they say 
it should have  done. 
Theyre right that the mortgage offer and terms dont say this isnt allowed. But neither do 
they say it is. Mr and Mrs O werent told they couldnt port to a property they already owned.  
But neither  did Lloyds lead them to believe they could.  Mr and Mrs O, in my view, assumed 
from what they took to be the offers silence on the matter that they would be able to.
But I dont think the offer is silent. It makes clear that theres no right to be allowed to port. 
Theres a right to apply, but Lloyds doesnt  have to agree. The offer makes clear Lloyds will 
assess the application in line with its criteria at the time  as it did. I dont think it would be 
practical or feasible  to list every possible scenario in a mortgage offer so that all borrowers 
would know what would  happen in all eventualities, which  is in effect what Mr and Mrs O say 
it should have  done. 
Instead, the offer says that there  are limits on the ability to port. And having seen that, 
borrowers are put on notice that  if porting is a key feature for them  they need to make 
further enquiries and if necessary seek advice to find out if this is really  the right product for 
them. Mr and Mrs O didnt do that. I accept  they might have had a conversation, in general 
terms, with a branch  adviser. But if they were  being  given formal  mortgage advice, I think 
there would be a record of that, and the application  would have been  submitted by the 
adviser, not by themselves online.
Ref: DRN72860173In going through the online channel, I think Lloyds  makes it clear that Mr and Mrs O werent 
being given advice about whether the particular product they were choosing  was appropriate 
for them and right for their circumstances. I think it made clear that porting was something 
that could be considered,  but not guaranteed  and that there  would be limits  on when it 
would be possible.  I dont think it would have been necessary, or practical, to spell out in 
detail all the possible limitations and restrictions on doing so. I dont think Lloyds mis-sold  the 
rate switch  to Mr and Mrs O, or misled them about  it, and I dont  think it would be fair to 
require it to refund the ERC  to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7286017