K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they only agreed to St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plcs investment advice  on the basis that the Immediate Income portfolio would provide them 
immediate income  and at 4.2%  per annum - but they received no money for nearly five 
months due to its mistakes. Its subsequent communication was appalling, compounding the 
problem.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 13 February 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
St Jamess said it accepted my proposal  that it should pay a further  £2,500, making £8,000  
in total. It said St Jamess did not impose any exit charges if Mr and Mrs G moved their 
investments to a new advisor.
Mr and Mrs G did not accept my proposed compensation,  and said:
They totally mistrust the business but if they sever their relationship on the basis  of 
the provisional decision it would be at a very high cost
The most recent encashment value is £136,879. That would mean  a total loss on the 
two portfolios of £26,242
While  they know hat investments  can go down as well as up, SJPs quarterly 
magazine, says the immediate Income Portfolio value at the end of September  was 
close to where it was at the beginning of the year.  In their case, this means a loss of 
£7,664
What actually happened is that their portfolios lost a catastrophic further 7.5%  
compared with the September valuation,  a total of £13,768 for the two portfolios
The statement in the magazine is obviously designed to give a completely false 
impression of what really happened
The Immediate Income Portfolio is supposedly in the lower-medium risk category  and 
seeks to give a consistent level of income  with some  potential  for capital growth over 
the medium term, say at least 5 years. It aims to avoid large fluctuations  but 
obviously has not
Given the current unit values they assume  that they will probably never recover  to the 
initial investment value
The return on the investment over 2018 was 3.75%,  once again  short  of the 
suggested 4.2%
From  the very beginning  this investment has not done what they were told it would do
They do not want to deal with St Jamess Place and want  to move their investments 
elsewhere
While  I said they should  be able to sever their relationship with St Jamess  Place  at 
no cost; my compensation  does not allow them to do this
They dont accept  that their investments were and are being looked  after 
professionally, properly and fairly. After all, this is the business  that thought it was 
perfectly acceptable not pay their income, made them make a formal complaint then 
took months to offer of a without prejudice ex gratia payment with strings attached
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is aware this business  has never fully responded 
to the complaint and, indeed has failed to provide  files and documents  requested by 
the ombudsman
Ref: DRN70556362How could the ombudsman have reached  his provisional decision given St Jamess 
failure/refusal to provide the necessary documents
In this context the ombudsman  shouldve  recommended the solution that they 
requested
They are aware  that St Jamess take an arrogant  and patronising attitude with 
customers as a way of avoiding telling the truth but they are surprised to leam that 
they have decided to treat the Financial Ombudsman Service in exactly the same 
way
They require a payment of around  £34,242.00 to leave without loss. This is 
calculated using  the encashment value of 31 December 2018,  plus their offer of 
£5,500 and set-up costs associated with moving to a new advisor of £2,500
This doesnt even  include  compensation regarding the fact that these  portfolios  are 
ISAs and they have  lost some of the tax benefits
If the ombudsman  feels  unable to recommend this and St Jamess refuse to pay it, 
they will have to stay with them as they cannot  take a loss of over £26,000
This would be a very real constant  worry  as they do not consider them fit to look after 
their money
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three discrete issues in relation to this complaint: was St Jamess 
recommendation broadly suitable  given  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and objectives?  Did 
the advisor imply that they were  guaranteed a 4.2% annual income pay-out? And did St 
Jamess subsequently manage  their income payments correctly?
On the final issue,  there  is no dispute  that it utterly failed to make the pay-outs from the date 
Mr and Mrs G reasonably  expected these  to begin; it then repeatedly  failed to explain what 
had gone wrong.  St Jamess eventually offered Mr and Mrs G £1,000 in lieu of these failures  
which I understand has now been paid.  If this is not the case I now instruct  it to make  this 
payment.
On the issue of the 4.2% income available via this bond, I felt that while  the documentation 
clearly stated that this figure had not been guaranteed, the advisor was far from clear  about 
this. St Jamess  appeared to accept this as it offered Mr and Mrs G an ex gratia payment of 
£4,500 to make their first years income  up to the equivalent of 4.2% (even though  the 
bonds growth did not ultimately prove sufficient to pay this).  I felt this was an appropriate 
offer given all the problems Mr and Mrs G had encountered  due to St Jamess very poor 
service.
I also fully understand  why they had now lost all faith in St Jamess  and wanted  to move their 
investment to be managed and overseen  by a different  financial  advisor/business.  To this 
end I said St Jamess should pay them an additional  £2,500  which Mr and Mrs G said they 
would need to spend to move this investment to a new advisor.
But I did not believe the investment itself had been unsuitable and therefore didnt believe St 
Jamess should pay either for its fall in value or for the cost of any early surrender charges if 
Mr and Mrs G chose to surrender it, as they had indicated they wanted to do.
Crucially, I said in my provisional  decision:  
Ref: DRN70556363On balance, I think this product  was broadly suitable for their objectives. Its initial and 
projected income pay-out was significantly higher than their existing investments income  
pay-outs. So even if the advisor ha spelt out that this level wasnt guaranteed (and not just 
made a passing  reference to it) I think Mr and Mrs G would have gone ahead.  
Having considered Mr and Mrs Gs recent  comments, I still believe this to be the case. The 
investment may not have performed as well as either St Jamess or Mr and Mrs G hoped  but 
this does not mean it is intrinsically flawed or was an unsuitable recommendation. Nor does 
the fact that the income pay-out turned out to be lower than the projected 4.2% demonstrate 
this.
Further, having looked into the make-up  of the Immediate Income Portfolio I do not believe it 
is manifestly inaccurate or misleading  to describe  it as of low to medium  risk. Nor do I agree 
that St Jamess failure to sort out the income  payments indicates that its investment 
managers have  acted incorrectly in the operation  of the fund, and that is why there has been  
a significant fall in its value.
As Mr and Mrs G note,  I did say in my provisional  decision  that I did not believe  St Jamess 
had supplied  a full record of the phone calls and emails etc. but I also said that I had 
therefore accepted Mr and Mrs Gs evidence about  issues such as how many times they had 
chased St Jamess to get the income  payment problem resolved.
In my view, this demonstrated  that St Jamess had probably not kept sufficient  records of 
phone calls etc. I did not say, and do not believe it deliberately withheld information.  Nor do I 
think any missing information would have changed my fundamental view about this 
complaint. I am satisfied  that I had sufficient information to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion about  the three central questions  I referred to earlier. 
So for all these reasons,  I am satisfied that my proposed compensation is appropriate. This 
instructs St Jamess to pay £2,500 to make up their income payment for the first year to 
4.2%, £1,000 in lieu of the considerable trouble and upset caused and £2,500 to pay 
towards the cost of receiving new advice if they chose to move  this investment to a new 
advisory business. As there is no exit charge  for moving the investment,  Mr and Mrs G are 
able to walk away from St Jamess as their nominated advisor  on this investment without 
costs. 
I therefore instruct St Jamess to pay the £5,500 previously offered plus £2,500.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70556364provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they only agreed to St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plcs  
investment advice on the basis that the Immediate Income portfolio would provide  them immediate 
income  and at 4.2% per annum - but they received  no money for nearly five months due to its 
mistakes. Its subsequent communication was appalling, compounding the problem.
background
Mr and Mrs G met with St Jamess because  they were  unhappy  with the 2.7% income they were  
receiving on their investment ISAs as they were  retired and depended on this money. The advisor 
recommended one of the business own bonds that offered a projected 4.2% income per year. He 
said the income  was due to start in December  2016. Mr and Mrs G pointed out that this was wrong  
and it wouldnt begin till 31 January 2017 which  he accepted. 
But this didnt  happen. Mr and Mrs G say then then complained continuously and St Jamess ignored 
them or gave partial or incorrect  responses. They  began  receiving income in May 2017 but have 
never been given the missing four months of payments. They say St Jamess  only responded properly 
16 months later, but still did not explain what had happened to the missing payments or the basis of 
its ex gratia payment offer and still did not admit liability for its mistakes.
After various partial  responses  which  didnt  address some of Mr and Mrs Gs key concerns,  St 
Jamess said in June 2018 that the income  had started late because  the application form had not 
been processed before  the cut-off date. It did not admit  liability for this. It said it was prepared to offer 
Mr and Mrs G the equivalent  of an additional income yield of 1.5% on their ISAs across  the year 
which would (belatedly)  give them the 4.2% theyd expecting. It said this offer amounted to £4,500. It 
also offered  them £500, subsequently increased to £1,000, for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr and Mrs G rejected this offer, and said that if there had been the slightest hint that they might not 
receive the first four months income they would  not have moved their ISAs to St Jamess  as the 
move was agreed on the basis that they would  continue to receive  their essential income  and at a 
guaranteed higher rate.
To settle their complaint,  they wanted  St Jamess  to pay the difference between their initial 
investment, £300,000  and its value  on the date they transfer their funds to another business and 
investment provider.  This is because they would  never have taken out this investment if theyd known 
what was going to happen.  They also wanted St Jamess to pay the transfer set-up costs of 0.75% 
(approx. £1,125 per ISA) as they could no longer trust it to manage their money. They  also expected it 
to pay the £4,500  in lieu of lost income  payments and the £1,000 it had offered for trouble and upset. 
In addition they wanted  to leave  St Jamess  without  any exit penalties.
An adjudicator at this service summarised the key time-line of events  and felt, overall,  that St Jamess  
offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G did not agree,  and said:
They  reiterated some  of their original complaint  points  concerning  what  the advisor had 
promised i.e. 4.2% income (per annum)  with monthly payments  from December 2016 (later 
revised to January  2017)
It ignored their many  calls/letters etc. from January through  to May yet must  have known by 5 
January 2017 that they would not receive the income  they were  expecting. It decided not to 
tell them and then prevaricated  and gave them conflicting, confusing  and or incorrect 
information for 15 months
They  asked for the meeting with the advisor  of 16 June 2017 because the income payment 
received on 31 May was obviously just for May with no payments for the previous four months
Ref: DRN70556365He did not explain that the funds did not arrive until 5 January or that the cut-off date had 
been missed. He simply apologised  for the delay and said that there would  be a balancing 
payment. They asked  for written confirmation of this
 In response they received a very confusing letter which referred to an equalisation payment 
which they have  never received
The first time they knew  there was a cut-off date and that St Jamess had missed it was 3 
April 2018, 15 months after the event
They  continued to wait for the additional payments for the missed income and in early 
January 2018 received  annual statements for which  confirmed there had been no payments
They  did not get a third of the income they were expecting and this was the key reason  they 
agreed to the advice  to move their money into the Immediate Income Portfolio.  This income 
was essential and if the advisor had warned them about the cut-off  date and the possibility of 
missing this, they would never have gone ahead
St Jamess has never responded to a number of their key questions  such as what happened 
to the missing income. As a result, they do not want  anything to do with it and should  be free 
to invest  their money elsewhere without  any financial penalty
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In my view,  it seems clear  that Mr and Mrs G were  led to believe  that the proposed product  would pay 
out 4.2% a year and that income payments would begin  immediately  whether this was in December 
2016 or January  2017. This was the basis on which  they agreed to transfer their money to St 
Jamess. While the advisors report refers to the fact that 4.2% was not guaranteed - if investment 
returns didnt meet current projections without reducing  their capital  I am not convinced he spelt this 
issue out. Certainly, given Mr and Mrs Gs reason for switching products was to get the headline  
higher income level I think he ought  to have explicitly warned that this was not guaranteed.
Ive also seen  no evidence to indicate that he warned Mr and Mrs G that there was a deadline to 
process the application if their income was to continuing  flowing without a break. From  what  Ive read, 
I dont think he was aware  of this issue, particularly  given he said theyd get income in December 
2016, the same month they made  the application.  And it failed  to keep on top of this issue or inform  
Mr and Mrs G about the delay. 
I also think   from what Ive read  that St Jamess failed to communicate  correctly  or promptly,  and I 
broadly agree with Mr and Mrs Gs comments about the advisors failure to come clean and St 
Jamess failure  to act decisively  and fairly. I have considered all of Mr and Mrs Gs points about  what  
was, and wasnt, said at various points and I think the evidence supports their allegations  on most  
issues. St Jamess has still not provided  copies  of all its files, including notes and copies of phone 
calls, messages, emails, letters etc. So to this extent I am relying on Mr and Mrs Gs evidence. I also 
dont think St Jamess has, even now, admitted the scale of its mistakes.
In my view,  the key issue is whether St Jamess final compensation offer was sufficient or whether it 
ought to agree to some or all of the additional redress Mr and Mrs G are seeking.
When a business had made a mistake or mistakes this services approach to redress starts with 
putting a customer back into the position they would  now be in but for that mistake.  
I have considered whether  the advice  itself was flawed and therefore whether Mr and Mrs G should  
be allowed to get their money back with appropriate interest. But, on balance,  I think this product was 
broadly suitable for their objectives. Its initial and projected income pay-out was significantly higher 
than their existing investments income pay-outs. So even if the advisor ha spelt  out that this level 
wasnt guaranteed (and not just made a passing  reference to it) I think  Mr and Mrs G would have 
gone ahead. 
Ref: DRN70556366So I do not believe it would be fair or appropriate to instruct it to make up any loss from the 
investments  as Mr and Mrs G requested  as the recommended product was not unsuitable for 
them. The fact that this investment has fallen  in value is not sufficient reason  to compensate Mr and 
Mrs G for this reduction. 
Neither the advisor nor they could have predicted  the delay  in paying out income  and this failure was 
not due to an inherent  fault in the product.
Turning to St Jamess income-loss compensation figure of £4,500 I am broadly satisfied that this is a 
fair and sufficient sum. It appears to be based on the amount Mr and Mrs G would  have received if 
they had received the four missing payments and that the yearly income had totalled 4.2% of their 
investments value i.e. what they expected.
I suspect St Jamess has described this offer as generous because in fact the portfolio did not deliver 
a 4.2%, according  to my research, so it has offered  them  more than they would have got if all the 
payments had been made on time. But equally  if this service were looking at this issue from scratch 
we would instruct St Jamess to pay the missing income and add 8% simple interest from the date it 
should have been paid to the date of settlement of this complaint. From  what  Ive read, this would not 
amount to more  than £4,500 so I am satisfied  that St Jamess offer  on this point  is fair.
I also feel that St Jamess  offer of £1,000 in lieu of the trouble  and upset  its failures have caused  is 
broadly reasonable,  and in line with how this service deals with this scale of problems.
That said, I do think  its communications  were extremely  poor and that, at various points, its responses 
were misleading if not inaccurate. I also think that given  the very large sum of money involved and the 
very large commission Mr and Mrs G paid for its service, they received a very poor level of service. 
Given St Jamess did not respond to many of Mr and Mr Gs complaints even after the adjudicator 
specifically asked  it to, I cannot be completely certain about all the following  issues. But from what  Ive 
read so far, I believe  its errors  included:
It initially told Mr and Mrs G the income  would begin  in December 2016
When they queried this they were told the income would start in January
Mrs and Mrs G chased  the non-payments  from February to early  May but got no response  or 
completely inadequate  one (St Jamess  should supply all the relevant  information  (copies of 
phone calls etc. if it contests this)
In June 2017 they were told they would receive  an equalisation payment which did materialise
In a subsequent letter St Jamess acknowledged that Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with its 
responses, claiming it hadnt responded to many of their key points,  and it said it would look 
into these. But its letter of 22 June 2018 neither  addressed any of their concerns nor 
explained why it was not doing  so. It simply said it was satisfied its offer was fair
Its responses frequently ignored their specific points and talked in general terms about  how 
investments could fluctuate in value,  something they had not complained about and felt 
insulted by. This also gave  the impression  that it had not focussed  on their actual complaint
It failed  to outline either what, if any loss, they had suffered  and whether its ex gratia 
payment fully compensated them  for this  including the basis for this figure
Its advisor said, in an internal email: I have been unable to answer where any "missing" 
income has gone. I did query  equalisation  payments with XXX but were told these  had been 
included in the 2.5%. The statement that clients were told they would  get has not 
materialised , I understand due to TT problems, but even that would not explain  the shortfall
In my view this is a damning statement which demonstrates that St Jamess never sought to 
get the root of the problem or offered a comprehensive explanation to Mr and Mrs G as to 
what went  wrong
Finally, it is important to iterate that the sole reason  Mr and Mrs G moved  their portfolio  to St Jamess 
was to receive an immediate and higher level of income from their investments;  this being  their main 
source of income.  St Jamess failures  meant it did not deliver on this central  objective.
 
Ref: DRN70556367Given this, it is entirely understandable why they have lost faith in it. Taking account  of all the 
evidence submitted, I believe they should be allowed to sever their relationship with St Jamess at no 
cost. I have considered whether St Jamess should refund the entire set-up charges  but, on balance, 
have decided  it is sufficient to pay what Mr and Mrs G say will be set-up charges  associated  with 
switching their investments to another business i.e. £2,500.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct it to pay the £5,500 previously offered  plus £2,500.  If there are 
any charges  associated with exiting from St Jamess it should outline  these as it will also need to pay 
these.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct St. Jamess  Place Wealth  Management Plc to 
pay compensation as outlined  above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7055636