K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. 
Mr and Mrs T say HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs T case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs T say that they were  told that they had to have the policy, and that it came as 
part of their mortgage. Due to the time thats passed, theres not much information 
available from HSBC,  and Mr and Mrs T havent provided much detail either. But I dont  
find this unusual  businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely, and I wouldnt 
expect Mr and Mrs T to remember everything about something that happened in 1994. 
But because of the lack of information, I dont have enough to say that Mr and Mrs T 
werent given a choice by HSBC in taking the PPI  and I cant uphold his complaint for 
this reason
HSBC likely recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T so it would have had to check  that 
the MPPI  was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent  affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs T about  the MPPI  wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But it seems  like it could have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont  think better  information  about the 
MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because HSBC  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said - but these points dont change my 
decision and for the reasons set out above,  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN76598382what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr and Mrs T any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra  they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. HSBC should 
also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs T.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659838