K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains APS Financial Limited, trading as Cashplus,  will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
background
On 5th and 6th November  2018, a number  of online transactions left Mr Ps account.   He said 
he did not make them  or authorise them  so he contacted  Cashplus  to let them know.   He 
said he noticed the transactions when he went to make a genuine purchase and the balance  
on the account was a lot less than expected.  In total, the disputed  transactions amounted to 
just over £2400.
Cashplus investigated Mr Ps complaint.  In its final response to him on 8th January 2019, it 
said it was going  to hold him liable for the transactions. It told him this was because  the 
information available showed that they had been  made using 3D authentication.  This was 
an extra  layer of security which Mr P would have  set up on his card  and only he would  
have access to the secure information  required. 
So, Mr P brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into matters for him and thought  Cashplus had not treated Mr P 
fairly.  He asked Cashplus for further  evidence to consider whether Mr P should in fact be 
liable for these transactions  but unfortunately, some of the information was never  received.
Our investigator thought Cashplus should  refund the money plus interest.  Mr P agreed to 
this but Cashplus  never  responded.  The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I arrived at the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
Generally speaking, Cashplus can hold Mr P liable  for these transactions if the evidence 
shows its more likely  than not that he made them.  But Cashplus needs to show  more than 
just Mr Ps card being used  it needs  to show he consented to the payments being made 
too.
From the information I have available, I am satisfied  that Mr Ps card was used to input the 
correct information.  So, I now need to decide  if he also consented  to the payments  being 
made.
I dont think Cashplus has been fair in holding  Mr P liable for the following reasons:
-Mr P has said he did not make these payments and is credible in his account.   There 
is no evidence provided to show that he has made similar payments to these 
merchants or that the merchants hold his details in respect of these payments;
-I have seen no evidence with regards the IP address used to make  these  payments 
or the device ID used.  So, I cannot  be persuaded that the payments  were  made from 
a device used  by Mr P on a previous  occasion  or from an IP address  that he had 
previously used;
Ref: DRN76583352-Mr P contacted Cashplus straight away upon noticing these transactions.  He said he 
attempted to make  a payment for a ticket and was unable to because he had 
insufficient funds.   Thats when  he checked  and noticed  he only had approximately 
£25 remaining in his account.  There is no evidence to suggest Mr P was logging  
onto his online banking  during the time the disputed transactions  were  being carried 
out;
So, in the circumstances, I will be asking  Cashplus  to refund this money  to Mr P, along  with 
the appropriate rate of interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
APS Financial Limited must:
-pay Mr P £2402.63 to cover the disputed transactions
-pay interest on this sum at the rate of 8% from the date of the transaction  until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombusman
Ref: DRN7658335