K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about how Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) has offered to settle  her complaint 
about a mis-sold payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to respond to me by 12 January 2019.
Both parties  have confirmed they received my provisional decision. And both parties agreed 
with my provisional findings  and the recommendation I made to resolve this complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional  decision and the recommendation I made to 
resolve this complaint  I now confirm those findings
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Lloyds  Bank  Plc should  put things right as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76129642Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs Ps complaint  is about how Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) has offered to settle her complaint about  a 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P complained to Lloyds about a PPI policy she took out connected with her credit card. Lloyds 
agreed to uphold her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, but it said that it had no evidence  that Mrs 
P had paid anything towards the PPI. So it didnt offer to refund  any premiums and said that Mrs P 
had not suffered  any financial loss because of the PPI. 
Unhappy, Mrs P brought her complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint.  
Mrs P disagreed and asked  for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds has accepted that there was a policy  in place on Mrs Ps credit card. And it has said that this 
policy was mis-sold. So I wont  be looking  at how the policy came to be sold  as that is no longer  in 
dispute. In this decision  I will only focus on whether Lloyds has acted fairly in determining that Mrs P 
did not suffer  a financial loss because  of the PPI.
Having done so, I am of the provisional opinion  that Lloyds hasnt acted  fairly in resolving Mrs Ps PPI 
complaint and it is likely she suffered some financial loss because of the PPI  so it needs to do more.  
Ill explain why.
Lloyds has said that Mrs Ps credit card started  in 1981. But it doesnt know whether PPI was added 
at this date,  or at a later date. It is not surprising that this isnt known as it was over 35 years  ago and 
there isnt much information  available. But, importantly,  Lloyds says its records do show that there 
was a PPI policy attached to Mrs Ps credit card account.  
Lloyds also says that from statement data it holds  (it has records from 2000 onwards),  PPI does not 
show on Mrs P statements. There was activity and spending on Mrs Ps credit card, but no charge 
was ever applied for PPI shown on these statements after 2000.  So it knows that Mrs P wasnt 
actually charged anything from this point. 
Lloyds records also show that the PPI policy was cancelled in 2005. So despite  the statements 
showing that Mrs P was not being charged for PPI from 2000 onwards, the PPI policy that was 
attached to the card was only formally  cancelled in 2005.
Lloyds says as Mrs P wasnt charged for PPI after 2000 it cant  be sure that Mrs P paid anything  
before this date for PPI.
I disagree. Despite Mrs P not being charged for PPI (from 2000 onwards)  Lloyds  has said that there 
was a policy in place on Mrs Ps credit card. So I dont think  it is fair to suggest that Mrs P never  paid 
anything at all over the life time of the card. I think it is likely that as there  was a PPI policy set up  
she would have been reasonably charged something at some point.
So I need to work out what I think is a fair way for Lloyds  to compensate Mrs P.
Ref: DRN76129643I cant  be sure when  the policy was taken  out. It could  have been taken  out in 1981  but it could  have 
also been taken out at any point after this date. And the policy could have ended  at any point in 
between 1981 and 2000  as it is known that it wasnt in place by 2000  as Mrs P wasnt charged 
anything despite the policy not being formally cancelled.
Given the above,  I think  it would be fair to take the policy start date as a halfway point between 1981 
and 2000  so say 1990.  And to take the end date of the policy as 2000  when Lloyds  records start 
and show no PPI was charged.
Using this period  as the policy duration, Lloyds should  then work out and pay Mrs P an average  
amount of compensation that it paid consumers  who held a PPI policy for a similar amount of time.
my provisional  decision
As it stands,  I am currently of the opinion that it is likely  Mrs P was charged for PPI at some point 
whilst attached to her credit  card account and in order to compensate her for this, Lloyds Bank Plc 
should put things right as set out above.
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 12 January  2019.  I will then consider any 
responses I receive and issue  my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7612964