K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has 
handled their claim under  their new home building warranty after they suffered problems with 
their plumbing.
background
In 2013, Mr and Mrs P bought a new house.  It came with a ten year building warranty 
underwritten by NHBC which provided  cover for defects found and reported in the first two 
years, and damage caused by defects  in years three to ten. Initial  responsibility for putting 
right any defects lay with the house  builder. If Mr and Mrs P were dissatisfied with the 
builders response to reported  defects, they could  make  a claim to NHBC. Before providing  
cover, NHBC could ask the parties to make use of a resolution service  to determine what 
action, if any, the builder  was required to take.  If the builder failed to comply with the 
recommendations in a resolution service report then NHBC would provide cover under the 
warranty.
Shortly after moving in, Mr and Mrs P reported  problems  with their boiler and plumbing 
system. They became  dissatisfied with the builders response and so made  a claim to 
NHBC. In November 2015,  NHBC issued a resolution report requiring that the builder obtain 
an independent report on the boiler.  This report was provided in December 2015.  It 
concluded that the boiler and flue were  not defective.
Mr and Mrs P continued experiencing problems with their boiler.  In July 2016, NHBC 
accepted liability  for this under the policy and arranged for the boiler to be repaired.
In March 2017, the issues with the boiler started re-occurring. Mr and Mrs P contacted 
NHBC who arranged for a further repair to be carried out and, in the meantime, arranged on 
several occasions for an emergency plumber to attend to restore Mr and Mrs Ps heating 
and hot water. The repair still didnt  resolve matters  and so, in May 2017, NHBC arranged  
for a new boiler  to be installed.
Around this time, Mr and Mrs P also drew NHBCs attention to a damp patch which  had 
appeared on their lounge  ceiling. NHBC arranged for its contractor to investigate this. It was 
found to be caused by a leaking pipe. The contractor  carried out a repair.
In August  2017,  Mr and Mrs P reported  that the damp patch was worsening. NHBC 
concluded that the repaired  piece  of pipework needed to be replaced. However, it had 
difficulty in sourcing a replacement  part because  the pipework which had been used by the 
housebuilder was now obsolete. In the meantime,  Mr and Mrs P noted problems with the 
replaced boiler and reported them to NHBC.
Between October 2017 and May 2018,  NHBC issued  several  final response letters to 
complaints from Mr and Mrs P and agreed  to pay a total of £1,750  compensation for its poor 
service.
Eventually, in May 2018, NHBC told Mr and Mrs P it had managed to find a replacement part 
for the pipework and that its contractor would  visit to install  this and to carry out other 
outstanding work.
Ref: DRN75905072Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy at NHBCs proposed solution. They  said that a number of 
contractors had reported that the only way to remedy  the problems with their plumbing was 
to replace the obsolete pipework completely. They felt that NHBC was trying to get away  
with a bodged fix which would result in further  problems down the line. They also complained  
that NHBC hadnt addressed other  problems  theyd identified, which were: the non-repair of 
an unsightly hatch  which had been  made in their lounge ceiling to access  the leaking 
pipework; a faulty valve in the airing  cupboard; a kitchen cupboard by the boiler which  had 
been taken apart and not reassembled; and a problem of fumes from the boiler  re-entering  
the property due to a faulty flue.
NHBC issued  a final response letter saying that it was confident  the pipe repair  would be 
successful and so there  was no need to replace the entire system of pipework.  It noted  that 
its contractor had now tidied up the hatch but explained this would need to be re-opened to 
allow the repair to take place. It confirmed  that the ceiling would be made good once it knew 
the repair had been successful. It said the other outstanding items  for which  it was liable 
would be attended  to once the pipework had been repaired.
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with NHBCs response.  They continued to believe that the 
obsolete pipework needed replacing  in its entirety.  They referred their complaint to us.   
   
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
pipework repair and other problems
The policy requires NHBC, once it has accepted liability  under the warranty, to put right any 
damage caused by a defect in certain aspects of the property.
The policy defines  a defect as follows:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone  employed by or 
acting for the Builder.  Failure to follow the guidance  supporting an NHBC Requirement does 
not amount to a Defect if the performance required  by the NHBC Requirement  is achieved 
by other  means.
The policy defines  damage as follows:
Physical damage to a Home caused by a Defect
In respect of the pipework,  it is accepted  that there  is a defect with a particular joint which  is 
causing a leak.  I understand that NHBC has fixed this temporarily and now has a part which  
it says will allow it to carry out a permanent fix. It says this fix will also resolve  the problems 
Mr and Mrs P have  experienced with the new boiler.  In contrast, Mr and Mrs P say that 
NHBC has been told by its own contractors that to make an effective and long-lasting  repair 
the entire system has to be replaced.
I can see that in September 2017, NHBCs contractor reported that it couldnt find a 
replacement part and so the entire system  would need to be replaced. NHBC was reluctant  
to accept its contractors  view, noting that the contractor might have a financial interest  in 
suggesting this course  of action. It therefore  arranged for an independent company (which  Ill 
call E) to provide a report on the plumbing  and boiler issues.  E issued this report  in January 
2018. In respect  of the defective  piece of piping, E said that, if a replacement part or adaptor  
Ref: DRN75905073couldnt be found, consideration should  be given  to replacing the plumbing system. This is 
therefore not an unconditional recommendation that the entire system should be replaced.
While it was seeking an appropriate replacement part, NHBC asked its contractor to provide 
a quote for the complete re-plumbing of the property just in case this should  eventually be 
needed. The contractor  re-visited  the property in March 2018 to carry out a survey for the 
purposes of providing  this quote.  It appears  that the contractor may have told Mr and Mrs P 
that the entire system  of pipework needed  replacing  and led them to believe that NHBC had 
agreed to this. However, NHBC  hadnt agreed to this and was still seeking an alternative 
solution. And it appears that the contractors belief that the entire system needed to be 
replaced was predicated  on the assumption  that no replacement part was available.
In May 2018, NHBC told Mr and Mrs P it had found  a replacement  part to enable  the repair  
to take place and that its contractor would then see to the other outstanding issues. NHBC 
hasnt accepted that the pipework as a whole is defective. And it points out in its final 
response letter that the rest of the pipework is performing  adequately  and not causing  
damage. This seems to accord with Es conditional  finding regarding the need to replace  the 
whole system only if a replacement part couldnt be found.
Taking everything into account,  while I acknowledge it took a long time for NHBC  to find a 
suitable replacement  part, I think it is reasonable for NHBC to now ask to carry out its 
proposed repair.  I understand Mr and Mrs Ps reluctance to allow this, not least because  
they say they dont  believe this will work. But Ive seen no expert opinion  to explain why this 
should be so. If, of course, Mr and Mrs P allow the repair  to go ahead  and it proves 
ineffective, then NHBC  shall have to consider another means of addressing the problem 
which or may not then involve replacement of a greater amount  of pipework. But at this 
stage I have no reasonable  grounds  for believing it is likely to fail.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P have now allowed NHBC to carry out the repairs to the 
hatch, the faulty  valve and the kitchen cupboard and that these  issues are now resolved.
fumes from the boiler 
Not all complaints that are brought to this service  are ones  we can look at. When  we receive 
a complaint we always check whether its within our jurisdiction. We do this by considering 
the rules laid down in the Financial Conduct  Authority  Handbook.
The rules  say that we can only consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a 
firm in carrying on regulated activities. The rules go on to say that, for an insurer  those 
activities are effecting or (more usually) carrying out contracts of insurance.
NHBC isnt an insurer  in the conventional sense. Part of its remit is to provide insurance 
covering (amongst other things) damage  caused by defects in years  three to ten after a 
property has been completed. It also carries  out a number of other (non-insurance, non-
regulated) activities including setting standards for UK house builders, ensuring  that new 
homes are built to certain  standards and  most relevant to this complaint - providing a 
dispute resolution service  in the first two years of the warranty.  The dispute resolution 
service is intended  to help the builder and the homeowner resolve any differences  they may 
have in that period. The primary responsibility for putting right defects  during  this time lies 
with the builder.
This service doesnt consider NHBC to be carrying out a regulated activity until:
Ref: DRN75905074A resolution report has been  issued, and
The builder has failed  to complete  the work in the resolution  report  by the deadline 
set.
In respect of the problem with the boiler fumes, I can see that in November  2015  NHBC 
issued a resolution report requiring the builder  to obtain an independent  report on the boiler. 
This was done and the report concluded that the flue installation was compliant with all 
relevant standards. This meant there was no further  work for the builder to complete and 
therefore NHBC hadnt started carrying out regulated insurance activity  in respect of the flue. 
The matter,  as it stood  at that time,  is therefore  outside of my jurisdiction. I cant consider  the 
merits of the complaint in this respect.
A report by NHBCs contractor in June  2017  concluded that the reason Mr and Mrs P were 
sometimes experiencing the smell of fumes was because the wind was blowing the fumes in 
through their bedroom window. It recommended that the flue be extended by about another  
three feet so that it was above the gutter. However,  NHBC  still denied  that there  was a 
defect which  needed addressing. The matter,  as it stood at that time, is therefore outside  of 
my jurisdiction. I cant consider the merits of a complaint in this respect.
In January 2018, E issued  its report in which it concluded that the flue did not comply  with 
Chapter 8.1 of NHBCs Standards which requires  Installation of space heating systems shall 
comply with relevant  codes and standards and ensure safe and satisfactory  operation.  It 
recommended that the flue be rotated through 90.
In February 2018,  NHBC issued a resolution report update in which it accepted  Es findings. 
It was at this point that this matter became subject to my jurisdiction.
NHBC sought to arrange for a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs Ps property to carry out Es 
recommended repair.  I think this was reasonable. Mr and Mrs P havent allowed the 
contractor to carry out the repair, presumably  because they think  it wont  work.  However,  
until they allow this repair to take place,  I cant reasonably require NHBC to do anything 
more.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept my provisional decision.  Their comments  can be summarised as 
follows:
NHBC had been  inconsistent in its handling  of the claim in that it had relied  on the 
advice of its chosen contractors when this suited it but had chosen to ignore the 
advice that the entire system of pipework needed changing.
It was scandalous  that the housebuilder  had used  pipework  which had become 
obsolete so quickly following completion  of the build. The plumbing system  had never 
worked properly and they were still suffering regular  boiler failure.
NHBC wasnt proposing to repair the pipework using a proper replacement part; it 
was using a cheap  DIY alternative  whereby copper  inserts would be joined to a 
plastic pipe. They considered this was unacceptable.
NHBC had also been inconsistent in its position  on whether the flue was defective, 
first of all denying  this but later accepting it.
Ref: DRN75905075The reason  the flue hadnt been  rotated 90 wasnt because of their obstruction  but 
because NHBC had repeatedly failed to brief its contractors that this work  needed  
doing. Eventually, out of frustration,  Mr P rotated the flue himself but this still hadnt  
resolved the problem  of fumes in the kitchen  which they believed could only be 
addressed by extending the flue above  the roofline.
Overall, the plumbing system in their home  is of an inadequate standard and it is 
unacceptable that they should have to put up with the ongoing  problems. NHBC 
should simply replace  it.
NHBC didnt comment on the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld.
I recognise that NHBC didnt follow the advice of its contractor who said in September  2017 
that the entire system  of pipework needed  to be replaced but I have explained in my 
provisional decision why I think it was reasonable for NHBC to take this position. The fact 
that the pipework  is obsolete doesnt necessarily mean it is either  defective  or causing 
damage. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs P that they are still suffering problems with their 
boiler but I still consider it is reasonable for NHBC to carry out its proposed  repair which  it 
believes will resolve the issue. I have  noted Mr and Mrs Ps concerns that NHBCs repair will 
not be using a part provided  by the original manufacturer but I dont think  the nature of the 
repair matters as long as it proves to be effective and long-lasting.  
With regard to the flue, I have explained  why I cant consider  NHBCs actions until it 
accepted responsibility under the policy in February  2018. I note Mr and Mrs Ps comments  
that the reason for the flue not being rotated was NHBCs failure to brief its contractors. 
However, I have seen email correspondence in June 2019  in which Mr and Mrs P tell NHBC 
that they will not allow its contractor to visit if it is only to rotate  the flue; they say they want 
the contractor to either extend it or relocate it. If Mr P has since  turned the flue himself  and it 
has made no difference to the problem,  he needs to make NHBC aware  of this so it can 
consider what to do next.
In light of the above, and the fact that NHBC offered no comment, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7590507