K821x#15complaint
Mr J says the car supplied  to him by Lex Autolease Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr J acquired  a new luxury model car with the benefit of a hire purchase  agreement with Lex 
Autolease. He took delivery on 30 December but says there were problems straight away. 
On 30 and 31 December  the on board computer malfunctioned. On 7 January the car 
wouldnt start and the vehicles  controls,  wipers and windows  behaved  erratically.  It was 
collected by the dealer the following  day, who diagnosed a faulty installation of the gear 
selector which was preventing the car from shutting  down properly when locked. This in turn 
had drained the battery.
Mr J said this was a new car but it had broken down three times within the first few days. He 
felt it was unreliable  and, in view of what had happened, he no longer had confidence in it. 
For that reason  he hadnt driven  it since it had come back  from the dealer.
Mr J complains the car wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. Under  the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 he believed he was entitled to reject  it. He said hed emailed  the brokers on 
8 January to say so and his solicitors  had written to Lex Autolease to confirm  this on 19 
January.
Lex Autolease said it hadnt received the letter  dated  19 January. It acknowledged thered 
been some  problems with the car but said theyd been resolved under warranty  and that it 
would be disproportionate  to reject it. It offered him £200.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Js complaint. She said hed emailed the brokers on 8 January 
2018 saying I have  no wish to continue with this car as reliability  is of utmost importance to 
us and this car has clearly  been of unacceptable  quality from its first journey onwards. Hed 
followed this on 19 January with a letter to Lex Autolease stating the car wasnt  fit for 
purpose or of satisfactory quality. Shed seen Lex Autolease  said it hadnt received it but it 
had been correctly addressed and dated  so there  was no reason to think  it hadnt been  sent.
As Mr J had acquired the vehicle under a hire purchase agreement,  the relevant legislation 
was the Consumer Rights Act 2015. In summary  this required Lex Autolease to ensure the 
vehicle provided  was of satisfactory quality, that is what a reasonable person would 
consider. Mr Js car had been brand new and was what  could be described as a prestige 
model. On that basis it was reasonable to expect the car to be fault free, even of minor 
faults, and not to have developed  problems  within the first day of Mr J taking possession.
While Lex Autolease argued that rejection  would  be disproportionate, she didnt  agree.  The 
fault in question had caused  the on board computer to malfunction which in turn had caused 
the battery  to drain completely so the vehicle couldnt be used at all. In the circumstances 
she didnt consider the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr J. Under 
the legislation he was therefore  entitled  to reject it within the first thirty  days and she felt Lex 
Autolease were wrong not to allow  him to do so when  he requested this in January  2018.
Lex Autolease said it hadnt received the letter  of 19 January and it didnt feel thered  been 
any other clear indication at this time that Mr J was rejecting the car. It noted Mr J had 
continued to drive the car between 30 December  and 8 January  when  it had been  collected 
by the dealership and repaired, which didnt suggest  hed wanted  to reject it at that point. It 
Ref: DRN73073952acknowledged the legislation allowed Mr J to reject the car within  the first thirty days  if it was 
faulty but as it hadnt known of any issues until 16 February, it didnt feel this applied. It 
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no information  on any 
particular point or the information is disputed as it is her then Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, in other words whats more  likely than not to have happened.
Mr J and Lex Autolease have referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This provides that 
the supplier of goods or services under  a regulated  agreement has a responsibility to ensure 
the goods or services supplied are of satisfactory  quality. In this case  Mr J acquired the car 
with the benefit of a hire purchase  agreement with Lex Autolease so Lex Autolease is 
responsible for ensuring the car was of satisfactory  quality. Its also responsible  for the 
complaint about  its quality.
Ive seen Mr J and Lex Autolease disagree as to whether the car was of satisfactory  quality. 
But while theres  no precise way of defining this, its what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory which in the case of a car would include its age, price and 
mileage. As the investigator has set out, this car was a high value luxury model and 
understandably Mr J had high expectations,  not least that it would be fault free for a 
reasonable period of time.  But in this case the car developed a fault on the first day and then 
twice again in the following week. The third time Mr J couldnt drive  it at all and it had to be 
collected by the dealer. In the circumstances I consider the car was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of sale.
On that basis the legislation allows Mr J to reject  the car within  the first thirty days. Ive seen 
Lex Autolease says Mr J didnt do this. It denies getting the letter of 19 January and says he 
didnt make it clear he was intending to reject it.
Its not clear why Lex Autolease didnt receive the letter  of 19 January but the letter  was sent 
from Mr Js solicitors and was correctly dated and addressed so on balance  I think it more  
likely it was sent. If thats the case then Mr J cant be responsible  for what happened to it 
after it was posted  or for the fact it didnt arrive.
And this letter  followed  the email of the 8 January  to the brokers  which  also made it clear Mr 
J wanted to reject the car, and why. It seems clear that after the third fault Mr J had decided  
to reject the car and that his actions after that support this. I note Lex Autolease  has said if 
that was the case, why did he allow it to be repaired.  But although the Mr J allowed the 
dealership to collect the car on the 7th, he was very clear from that point  that hed lost 
confidence in the car and wanted to reject it. Ive seen he was unwilling to have the car 
returned to him, even  after it was repaired, and although it was returned to him by the 
dealership its clear from the odometer he hasnt driven it since.
Lex Autolease says it would be disproportionate to reject the car. But for the reasons given 
Im satisfied this car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale.  Ive also seen Mr J 
gave the necessary notice of rejection within the first thirty days. On that basis I consider 
hes entitled to reject it. Lex Autolease should now mark  the agreement  as settled on Mr Js 
credit file and arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr J and mark the agreement  as settled 
on Mr Js credit file. In addition as Mr J hasnt driven the car since  7 January, Lex Autolease  
Ref: DRN73073953should calculate that part of the monthly  payment due for 30 December to 7 January, deduct 
that from the payments made and refund the balance. It should  also refund the initial  deposit  
of £2,747.52. Interest at 8% simple should  be paid on the refunded repayments and deposit 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Although Mr J hasnt driven the car since  it was returned, hes continued to comply with the 
terms of the hire purchase agreement including arranging to have it serviced. Mr Js 
provided a copy of the service bill totalling £1,150.60. In the circumstances Mr Js had no 
benefit from this so I think its reasonable for Autolease to also refund this cost to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Lex Autolease Ltd to
Allow Mr J to reject  the car and mark the agreement  as settled on Mr Js credit file;
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr J;
Refund all payments made by Mr J under  the agreement other than that due from 30 
December to 7 January together  with interest at 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
Refund the initial deposit of £2,747.52  together with interest at 8% simple from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
On provision of a receipted invoice to refund Mr J £1,150.60 being  the cost of the last 
service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7307395