K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Covea Insurance plc didnt pay a fair total loss settlement for his 
car when  he made a claim  under his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr G made  a claim to his insurer, Covea. An engineer reported that it wasnt economical  to 
repair Mr Gs car due to the damage. So Covea  said it would settle  his claim by paying Mr G 
a total loss settlement. It decided that a fair final market value for Mr Gs car was £2,000. 
Mr G said hed paid £8,000 for his car the year before.  His car had been  modified and he 
provided a breakdown of the modifications.  He said Coveas settlement was far too low. He 
said he declared the modifications and confirmed the value of his car to Covea at £7,500 
when he bought the policy.  
Covea said that as Mr G didnt have an agreed  value  policy, its valuation was reasonable 
and in line with the terms of his policy. 
Mr G remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at his complaint. He believed a fairer  market 
value for his car was at least £5,000. 
Our investigator thought that although  Mr Gs car had been modified,  Covea  had accepted 
the modifications when  considering Mr Gs claim.  Covea had relied on the motor trade 
guides only when  deciding an initial valuation of £1,580  adding £420  to take into account 
an LPG modification. 
The investigator looked at other online sales sites for classic cars.  They  showed vehicles like 
Mr Gs  but not with the modifications  ranging  in price from £5,000 to £10,000. The age 
and mileage of the vehicles  varied  widely. 
He thought a fairer  outcome was for Covea to increase the market  valuation to £4,000,  
adding interest at 8% on the difference it pays Mr G.
Mr G accepted the investigators recommendation. Covea didnt agree. In summary  it said:
Mr G hadnt provided proof  of the modifications or the price he paid for his car. The 
document Mr G provided to show the modifications done to his car is a Word 
document and not a purchase  invoice. 
The valuation Mr G provided allowed Covea to limit the risk it was prepared to take 
on. The policy Mr G applied for didnt provide insurance for high value vehicles. 
Mr Gs policy  isnt an agreed  value  policy which may have been  more suitable for 
Mr Gs needs. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79504562Mr Gs policy  with Covea says that the most  it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is the 
market value of his car. However, I can also see from Mr Gs policy schedule that he told 
Covea that his car had been  modified. And Coveas engineer accepted  that it should take 
into account one of the modifications - the LPG conversion - when it increased its valuation  
for Mr Gs car to £2,000. 
Coveas policy defines the term market value  as 
The cost of replacing  your car with one of the same make,  model, specification, 
year, mileage and condition. In deciding the market value  of your car. we will refer to 
insurance industry recognised guides as well as searching for available  vehicles  
being offered  for sale to the public.
Mr G has provided  us with a copy of his bank statement.  This shows  he paid the garage  a 
total of £8,000 in two payments of £7,500 and £500  in June 2017. So Im satisfied  that this  
along with the breakdown of the modifications  set in in a Word document   is sufficient to 
show Mr G paid a premium  for his car due to the modifications. 
Mr G said his car was therefore  much  sought after, making it more  desirable and more 
economic to run. Coveas engineer reported that Mr Gs car was in good condition.
I think its important to mention that Mr G believes that because he gave a value for his car 
of £7,500 when he bought his policy, he therefore  paid a premium which was rated on that 
sum. This isnt correct. Covea said it doesnt provide insurance for high value vehicles. So it 
only uses this sum to filter out any vehicles it wouldnt  insure. It doesnt rate a customers 
premium based on the valuation  they provide. 
Covea has provided  a screenshot of the online question Mr G was asked when he applied  
for the policy in relation to the valuation of his car. He was asked: do you know  the value of 
your car? with an explanatory note. Covea says this shows that a customer  can put in any 
value, but it doesnt mean  that is what the car is worth. The explanatory  note read: 
please note that in the event of a claim the insurer will generally  pay the market 
value of your car. Car values may vary due to a number of factors  such  as 
modifications, mileage and the cars  condition. 
Covea has commented  that we have  also looked  at classic and specialist car guides even 
though this is a market  value policy. But the wording under their definition reads: as well as 
searching for available  vehicles  being offered for sale to the public. So I dont think  theres  
anything wrong  in using these guides  as an additional tool in this case.
The classic car guides ranged from £3,950 to £9,995. But the condition,  type of fuel and 
mileage varied widely. 
As Ive said,  Mr Gs policy with Covea isnt an agreed value policy.  But Covea  was aware 
that Mr Gs car was modified. And it increased the valuation taking into account  the LPG 
conversion to £2,000.  The motor  trade  guides Covea checked ranged from £1,145 to 
£1,625. But I dont think its fair to rely on the motor trade guides alone in this case. And this 
means I dont think the market value it reached   based on standard models of Mr Gs car  
was a fair starting  point to decide a total loss settlement.
Ref: DRN79504563Mr G isnt able to provide  proof to show why he believes his car is worth  £5,000.  But I dont 
think Coveas valuation  of £2,000  has been  reached reasonably.  So on balance,  I think a 
fairer outcome is for Covea to increase the market value for Mr Gs car to £4,000. 
I think Covea should pay interest on the difference at 8% simple  interest  a year.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance  plc to do the following:
Increase the total loss settlement it pays Mr G to £4,000.
Covea should  pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest from 
the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr G. 
Covea must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7950456