K820x#14complaint
Miss H, represented by a claims  management company, complains about the suitability of 
investment advice by Santander UK Plc (formerly Abbey National)  in relation to an 
investment made in 1997.
background
In 1997, Miss H put £6,000 into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP)  which  was invested  in a 
growth fund. Miss H made other  investments too  but these arent  part of this complaint. 
Miss Hs PEP was surrendered in 2008 for £8,350.83. 
In 2017, Miss Hs representatives complained  about the advice shed been given. They  said 
the money had come  from her savings, she was a civil servant and a novice investor. And 
while she wanted growth, she wasnt prepared to take excessive  risk. 
Santander didnt  look into the complaint as they said it had been brought  too late. So 
Miss Hs representatives asked for our help. One of our investigators  thought  we could  look 
into things  she felt that the gain meant Miss H wouldnt necessarily  have been  put on 
notice that something  wasnt  right with the advice.  
So Santander agreed to us looking into the complaint  but after looking into the merits of 
the case, our investigator didnt think the advice was unsuitable. Miss Hs representatives 
disagreed  they said Miss H was a cautious investor and that the equity exposure within the 
PEP made the investment much riskier. So the file was passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons.
Miss Hs representatives say she was advised to invest into the PEP  and Santander agree. 
This means  that Santander  have held themselves  to a higher standard  in terms of what  they 
had to do when  Miss H invested.  
Where advice has been given by a regulated business,  it would usual for documents such as 
fact finds, suitability or recommendation letters to exist. But Santander told us they dont 
have any documents  from when  Miss Hs PEP was sold  but I dont think this is surprising 
given the sale took place  over 20 years ago and the surrender was over 10 years ago. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  after six years, so its not unusual to decide a 
case based on incomplete evidence  I must instead  decide what I consider  to have been 
most likely on balance.
As we arent able to consider any point of sale documents in Miss Hs case,  Ive looked to 
what her representatives  have told us about  her circumstances at the time. Miss H was a 
civil servant and took money from her savings to make her investment. The representatives 
say Miss Hs circumstances mean  she was a cautious investor, without need for excessive 
risk  yet the fund was medium risk, so this was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN77410652Santander agree the fund was medium risk. They cant share paperwork to show what the 
underlying investments would have been,  but the product brochure  at the time made 
reference to the fund investing in UK companies.  And this was a PEP  which by name 
alone meant it focussed on equities. 
Taking what little we know about Miss Hs circumstances  into account, I dont think Ive seen 
enough to persuade me that investment advice given  here was unsuitable  simply because  
Miss H was a first time investor. Miss H was in her early thirties  when she made the 
investment. She was working, had savings, and remained invested for eleven years. She 
also made a further  investment within the same period. This shows  the investment was 
affordable and confirms  Miss H was investing  for the longer term.
Ive taken into account Miss Hs representatives  comments, including what theyve said 
about the equity weighting  of the fund. But given  the investment  duration and the UK 
exposure, I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss H to have been advised to invest  into 
this fund. 
I dont think this was an inherently unsuitable  investment, and with a lack of any other  
information about Miss Hs objectives  or risk appetite at the time,  I dont  think it would be fair 
to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7741065