K821x#15the complaint
Mr T says TSB Bank plcs IT problems meant that he was unable to use his card for several 
days and had intermittent  access  to his online banking for around three weeks. Hes said this 
impacted his ability to manage his account and had knock on effects on his financial 
circumstances and his health.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr T says this meant  he wasnt able 
to use his debit  card, hes also said that he wasnt able to make  transfers  and payments 
because of the intermittent access he had to his online banking.
Mr T has also told us TSBs telephone banking service was very busy, so he spent  a long 
time waiting  on the phone. And that he was incorrectly told to call the fraud  department 
where he spent even more time trying to resolve things.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He thought  TSB should pay Mr T £150 for the 
trouble and upset  caused. Mr T was keen to get things resolved, and so initially agreed to 
accept this offer. But he then made  another complaint to our service about the customer 
service hed received  from TSB in their handling of his complaint, and about charges hed 
received while he was waiting for TSB to pay the compensation payment our investigator 
had recommended. Mr T also told us about  a medical condition he suffered with and how he 
felt TSBs actions had made this condition worse.
We felt the issues Mr T had raised  were linked very closely  with his original complaint. 
Because of this, an adjudicator looked  at the complaint again and considered the new 
information Mr T had now told us. The adjudicator didnt think TSB could be held responsible 
for the charges Mr T had incurred, but he agreed  that Mr Ts ability  to use his account had 
been affected and that this had impacted on his health because of the stress caused.  So he 
recommended that TSB pay Mr T £300  compensation  (minus any compensation that had 
already been paid).
TSB accepted this, Mr T didnt. He thought £1,200, on top of the £150  TSB had already paid 
him, would be a fair amount  instead.  So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think £300 compensation is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
I dont doubt that the IT issues at TSB caused  stress  and inconvenience to Mr T. I can see 
from his account  statements that the way he used his account  changed  significantly after the 
IT issues. But I dont  think I can hold TSB responsible  for everything that Mr T has told us 
happened over the following weeks and months.
Mr Ts said that the issues with his account started  on 27 April 2018, so Ive thought  carefully 
about what he was able to do after that date. I can see that a large  payment  which  appears  
Ref: DRN74510622to be Mr Ts monthly wages  was paid into the account on 27 April. And while Mr T was 
unable to use his debit card, it appears  that he was able to transfer all of that money to an 
account with a different bank, part of it on 27 April and the rest on 28 April. 
Mr T has told us that he was only able to make these transfers after several  attempts at 
transferring to a different bank  account first, and as he was worried about  paying his rent on 
time he had borrowed  funds from a relative  in the meantime  to ensure the rent was paid.    
Mr T has also said that he had to borrow money  from his partner for a bill payment, and for 
general living expenses. 
I appreciate that this will have been  stressful and embarrassing for Mr T, so Ive taken that 
into account in my recommendations. But Im also bearing in mind  that it appears  that all his 
money would  have been available to him  albeit in a different bank account  by the 
29 April at the latest.
Mr T has also mentioned that he had been  planning  to set up a direct debit for his credit card 
payment from his TSB account, and that the issues with his online  access meant he wasnt 
able to do this. But given that he did have  money available  in his other account with a 
different bank, its unclear why he couldnt have set up a direct  debit  or made a direct 
payment  from that account to his credit card instead.
Mr T has told us that when hes called TSB to try and resolve the issues  with his account, 
and to ask for updates, hes found them  very unhelpful. Hes also said that when he first 
spoke to them he was incorrectly told to call the fraud department.  I can see how this will 
have contributed to Mr Ts stress and worry at the time.
Lastly, Mr T has said that it took too long for TSB to pay him the full £150 that we initially  
recommended on this complaint, and that this led to him getting more charges from third 
parties and added to his stress at a difficult time.  Mr T accepted  the offer of £150 on           
15 June, and when  we wrote to him on 21 June we explained  it could  take up to four weeks 
for TSB to arrange the payment. I can see that the full payment was made to Mr T on 3 July, 
well within the period we advised it would be made.  So I dont think its fair to say that TSB 
has done anything  wrong here. They paid Mr T within the stated timescale,  and it was for 
Mr T to make sure he had enough  money  in his accounts to pay any bills that were due.
Mr T says he wants fair compensation for the worry and frustration caused and for the time 
hes spent trying to resolve things  with TSB  and I can understand his strength of feeling. I 
also appreciate  that what one individual might feel is a fair amount for the impact an issue 
has caused might not be thought of as enough  by someone else who went  through  the exact 
same problem. But taking  everything into account,  I think the £300 compensation the 
adjudicator has already  recommended  and TSB has agreed to  is a fair amount for whats 
happened here.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr T £300 for the impact the IT issues had;
but TSB can deduct from this amount any compensation it has already paid to Mr T.
Ref: DRN74510623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7451062