K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) for the service  he received in 
telephone calls to the business.  
background
Mr C had an existing complaint with Barclays. 
In mid January  2019 he called Barclays to ask about his complaints. 
Mr C spoke at length  with an agent  and expected  to receive a returned  call within  a set 
period. Mr C waited for that period and then called Barclays back. 
Mr C spoke with different agents and wanted  to speak  with the same people he had spoken 
to before.  This was not possible. 
One of the calls was terminated by Barclays. 
Mr C made  a complaint.  
Barclays sent Mr C its final response  shortly afterwards. This acknowledged that Mr C had 
felt the service unprofessional  and that, having  spoken to Mr C, Barclays had agreed that 
feedback would be given to one of the call handlers.  
Barclays offered Mr C £25 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr C did not accept this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and has set out her view to the parties.  
This was that the calls available  were handled  professionally and she did not recommend 
Barclays do anything further. 
Mr C did not accept this view and so the complaint was passed for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  listened to the available calls, and considered Mr Cs account.  
I appreciate that it would have been  frustrating  for Mr C to speak to different staff on each  
call, and to expect a call back within a set timescale  and then not to receive that call. 
I also appreciate that some of the conversations were tense and Mr C found the agents he 
spoke to rude. 
I did not hear evidence  of rudeness, but I think it was appropriate of Barclays to offer Mr C 
some compensation for his distress  and inconvenience, given that some of his time was 
wasted waiting for a return call, or being  on hold, and that clearly this caused  him distress.  
Ref: DRN78723632I think the £25 offered  was appropriate,  however, and think  this is a fair response from 
Barclays. I also think it was appropriate  to offer feedback to the member  of staff. 
On this basis, I agree with the investigators  view and do not ask Barclays  to do anything 
further. 
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Mr C but I hope this makes clear my reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint  and do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872363