K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs M says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely Barclays made  it clear  that Mrs M didnt have to take the PPI and she 
chose to take it. For example her credit  card application had boxes to tick to say either  
yes or no to PPI. And from what we know, I dont  think it likely that Barclays wouldve  
added cover unless  Mrs M had indicated she wanted it. But I can understand why Mrs M 
might not remember this now  buying credit card insurance is often not very memorable 
and in this case  it is almost twenty years since the PPI on Mrs Ms card started.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right 
for her. But Barclays did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  she chose to take it - so it looks to me like she wanted this 
type of cover. From what Mrs M has told us, she wasnt entitled to work  sick pay and 
didnt have savings  to fall back on if she lost her job or was too sick to work. And based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so the cover  wouldve been useful 
for her if something went wrong. Taking  everything into account,  I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ms points,  including what she has said about not remembering 
taking the PPI or being asked whether she wanted it. But Ive explained above my reasons 
for thinking Mrs M was likely given a choice - and how I dont think  it likely Barclays added 
PPI without her permission. And given the time that has passed, I wouldnt  expect  Mrs Ms 
recollection of her card application to be detailed or vivid  so although she doesnt recall 
taking the cover, this isnt enough  on its own to make me think  Barclays  added the PPI 
without asking or getting her permission. With this in mind,  and for the reasons Ive already 
given above, these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
Ref: DRN73718652ombudsman
Ref: DRN7371865