K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to tell him when the 0% interest promotional 
period on his credit card would end. As a result, he says he wasnt prepared  to pay the full 
balance when interest started.
background
Mr Ms credit card with Santander  had a 0% promotional period which ended on 31st October  
last year.  Mr M complained to Santander because he said it didnt  inform  him of the end date 
of the promotional period so he wasnt prepared for it. He asked for the interest  to be 
refunded and the 0% period to be extended  by three  months to allow him time to sort things 
out. Santander rejected his complaint so he came to this service. Our investigator  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld  because she thought  Mr M did have 
access to the information.  Mr M disagreed with this and asked  for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr M didnt receive paper statements 
from Santander until earlier this year.  So Ive looked at the information that was available  to 
him on his online statements  last year. I can see that the online statement in August 2018 
said the promotional  period would  end soon. And the statements from September  and 
October 2018 specify that the 0% interest period would end on 31st October 2018. 
Mr M says this information wasnt available on the statements he saw through  mobile 
banking. But Santanders provided information to show Mr M consulted his statements online 
as well as on the mobile  app over the relevant period. So I think Santander did provide the 
information in a way Mr M could  access it. So I dont  think Santanders done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr M to accept or reject  
my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7743951