K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she got using  a hire purchase  agreement from 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance.
Throughout Mrs Bs complaint with us, she has been  represented  by her husband. But to 
make things simpler, Ill only refer to Mrs B.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint and the settlement FirstRand should  make to Mrs B.
I invited Mrs B and FirstRand to let me have any final comments  and evidence  before 
making my final decision. Mrs B accepted  my provisional decision, but FirstRand did not. In 
summary, FirstRand  said:
Mrs Bs agreement  is a personal contract  purchase plan (PCP), not a hire purchase 
agreement and she has had fair usage  of the car, given the 12,000  annual  mileage  
allowance;
The guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance policy was not purchased through  
FirstRand;
Mrs B told FirstRand she couldnt  afford  the repairs  in November 2018 and indicated 
that she was going  to halt them;
Mrs B knew there was a problem  with the coolant and exacerbated the issue by 
continuing to drive the car for 10,000 miles.  Its likely  this caused further damage;
The issues with the car in April 2019 have not been investigated and there  are no 
independent reports  to show there  had been a failed repair;
The third party garage where  Mrs B took her car in April 2019, cannot be considered 
as unbiased, as they are working  for her;
FirstRand waived the £80 cherished  plate  fee when Mrs B acquired the car; and
No undue distress has been caused to Mrs B as FirstRand have not been able to 
thoroughly investigate the issue.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer FirstRand were hoping  for  Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in 
my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Mrs Bs usage of the car, having to top the coolant  up and the November 2018 repairs
Ref: DRN78008162I acknowledge that Mrs B has a personal  contract  purchase  agreement  with FirstRand and 
that this is a type of hire purchase agreement.  I dont  think this changes my conclusions on 
the satisfactory quality  of Mrs Bs vehicle, but I have used the finance agreement to look at 
the usage Mrs B had from the car.
FirstRands have commented  on what they think is fair usage and I think this supports my 
findings, that the car wasnt driven to the extent where significant wear and tear was caused,  
in the first ten months  of Mrs B having it. I say this because within  the first ten months,  Mrs B 
had driven the car around 11,000  miles.
Mrs B says she needed to top the coolant  up regularly. But, I dont think this means she 
caused further significant damage to the engine, since  she was prompted  by the engine 
management lights to do so. And the car didnt overheat, so she was unaware of the 
problems it had, until she took it for a service at a franchised garage. 
The repairing  garage also said that its likely  the fault with the water  leak from the inlet 
manifold gasket was there when Mrs B got the car. So, I dont think Mrs B caused damage  to 
the car. I think that the faults were there when she acquired the car and a further fault 
became apparent within six months of it being  repaired. And given the problems the car had 
in April 2019, I still dont  think it was what a reasonable person would think  is of satisfactory 
quality, given its age and mileage. So, I still think Mrs B should  be allowed to reject it now.
the GAP insurance  policy and the cherished  plate removal charge
Mrs B bought a GAP  insurance policy to provide cover, if ever there was a shortfall  in what 
she would  owe to FirstRand in the event of a theft,  or if the car was written off. Ive found that 
Mrs B should be allowed  to reject the car and that some of the costs  shes incurred as a 
result of having it, should be refunded.  Mrs B has provided proof that she has paid for the 
GAP insurance policy, so Im persuaded that this is a cost shes  incurred. 
I acknowledge that Mrs B didnt get the GAP  insurance from FirstRand. But, I think FirstRand  
should refund the cost of the GAP insurance, because  she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy, if she hadnt acquired the car.
Similarly, I acknowledge that FirstRand may have  waived the cost of transferring Mrs Bs 
cherished plate, when the hire purchase  agreement  was signed. But, it doesnt follow that 
Mrs B should cover  the cost of changing  it again, when she stopped using the car. 
I still think that FirstRand should refund the reasonable costs Mrs B has incurred and she 
has provided evidence  to show, she paid the £80 fee to remove  the cherished  plate. In all 
the circumstances, I think  its fair that FirstRand refund the £80 cost for the removal  of the 
cherished plate, to Mrs B.
the issues with the car after April 2019  and the opinion  of the specialist garage
I accept that Mrs B hasnt  arranged for a subsequent report  on her car, since she was told 
not to drive it in April 2019. But, the garage  which looked  at the car, is a specialist in the 
cars make. So, I think the specialist garage  has an equal interest in helping Mrs B and the 
brand of car it has chosen to specialise in. The specialist  garage has explained to us that the 
part that failed  in April 2019, would be expected to last until the car had been driven around 
100,000 miles. This is considerably more  than the 38,000  covered by Mrs Bs car. 
Ref: DRN78008163I think that the evidence from the specialist garage is credible and Im persuaded that the 
failure of the part happened sooner  than it should have. So, I dont think  a further report on 
the car is necessary here, and that the evidence shows that there  are still faults  with the car, 
despite it being repaired in November 2018.
the distress and inconvenience  suffered by Mrs B
Im persuaded that the car hasnt been  used since April 2019 because  the current  mileage is 
around 38,000.  This means  it covered  around 6,000  miles  in the six months from November 
2018, which is consistent with the monthly mileage  Mrs B does.  So, I think Mrs B has been 
without a car during this time and I find what shes told us about  the impact  of not having a 
car credible.
I also think FirstRand could have helped  Mrs B more when she first reported the problems 
with the water leak from the inlet manifold  gasket.  Whilst I understand Mrs B may have told 
FirstRand about her concerns over the repair  costs,  she also told them  that she couldnt  be 
without a car. So, I think the length  of time, where  she wasnt given a response from 
FirstRand about the prospect of repairs, caused  her distress.
Taking everything into consideration, I still think Mrs B was caused distress  and 
inconvenience by FirstRand and they should make a payment of £250  to her in recognition  
of this.
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my 
final decision  is that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance should:
1.allow Mrs B to reject the car, collect it from her and end the hire purchase agreement 
at no cost to her;
2.refund  to Mrs B the £500 deposit;
3.pay Mrs B her £462.89 insurance  policy and gap insurance policy costs 
4.pay Mrs B the £800 repair costs;
5.refund  to Mrs B fifteen percent of each of the first ten repayments she made under 
the hire purchase  agreement;
6.refund  to Mrs B all the repayments  shes made under the hire purchase agreement 
from April 2019;
7.pay Mrs B £80 for the cost of removing  the cherished plate from the car;
8.Add interest on the amounts  in parts 2,3,4,5,6  and 7, at an annual  rate of 8% simple 
from the date the payments were made, to the date of settlement; and
9.pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Ref: DRN78008164FirstRand must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs B 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If FirstRand deducts tax from any interest  they pay to Mrs B, they should  provide Mrs B with 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78008165copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she got using  a hire purchase agreement from FirstRand 
Bank Limited trading  as MotoNovo Finance.
Throughout Mrs Bs complaint with us, she has been represented by her husband. But to make things 
simpler, Ill only refer to Mrs B.
background
In late January 2018, Mrs B got a used car from a dealer. The car had already been  driven for around 
21,000 miles  and Mrs B paid £9,000 for it. The car was nearly four years old when Mrs B acquired it 
through a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand. Later, in November  2018, Mrs B took the car for a 
service at a franchised  garage.  During the service, Mrs B was told there was a water leak from the 
inlet manifold  gasket. 
Mrs B wanted  to compare the franchised garages  repair quote  with a different garage. Mrs B says the 
second garages  quote  was less expensive  and that they found two additional leaks, with the water 
pump and the exhaust gas recirculation (ERG) cooler. They  also told her that the faults with her car, 
were there when she got it. So, Mrs B called  FirstRand to complain and ask them  to pay for the 
repairs.
During the call with FirstRand, she was asked  if the car had ever overheated and was told that they 
would normally want to inspect it, or have  some  sort of report, before arranging a repair. Mrs B said 
that she hadnt noticed any problems with overheating and that she wanted to get the car repaired, as 
she needed  to use it.
Whilst Mrs B was waiting for FirstRand to reply  to her complaint,  she arranged for the repairs to go 
ahead and paid for them herself. FirstRand wrote to Mrs B around a week after she had complained,  
and told her not to arrange for the repairs, because they were investigating her concerns  with the 
dealer.
In December 2018, FirstRand  wrote  to Mrs B with their final response. They said that as Mrs B had 
been driving  the car for more than six months, she needed to prove  that the car had the fault when  
she got it. Mrs B didnt accept this, because she thought she had already  provided proof,  so brought  
her complaint to our us.
Our adjudicator concluded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and asked FirstRand to refund 
Mrs B the cost of the repair.  But, during  his investigation Mrs B had further problems with the car. In 
April 2019, the cars engine management light was lit, so Mrs B says she took it to another garage,  
accredited by the cars manufacturer.  She says they told her that the engine needed  to be stripped 
and that driving the car could cause more damage. 
After a further review, the adjudicator found that Mrs B should receive the cost of the repairs and that 
FirstRand should allow  her to reject the car. He also asked  FirstRand to refund Mrs Bs other costs, 
but didnt say which ones.
Mrs B accepted the adjudicators findings  and provided proof of the costs shes incurred.
FirstRand didnt accept them, and questioned the comments from the repairing  garage about  the 
faults being  present at the point of sale. They also said it was for Mrs B to get an independent 
engineers report to prove this. 
The adjudicator didnt change his conclusions, so the case has been referred to me to make  a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN78008166my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to reach a slightly different outcome to 
the investigator. I think FirstRand should allow Mrs B to reject the car. Ill explain why.
The quality of the car supplied  to Mrs B
Mrs B entered  into a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand,  which  allowed her to get the car. Under 
this type of agreement, FirstRand  are the supplier of the goods.  This means  FirstRand are 
responsible for dealing with complaints about the cars  quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is implied  into the agreement between FirstRand and Mrs B. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality  where they meet  the standard that 
a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory,  taking into consideration the description of the 
goods, the price paid and any other relevant circumstances.  In complaints about  the quality  of a car, 
the price paid, the mileage  at the time of the sale and the cars history need to be taken into account.
In this case, the car supplied to Mrs B was a used car that had covered around 21,000 miles since it 
was first registered  in 2014. So, I think a reasonable person would have different expectations of it 
compared to a brand new car. But, I think  those  expectations would  be more to do with wear  and tear, 
rather than any significant faults with the engine.
Mrs B has told us that she had to top up the coolant in the car every six to eight weeks.  She says that 
on long journeys,  she would  need to top the coolant up more regularly than this. I asked Mrs B why 
she didnt mention  this to FirstRand, when  she first asked them  to pay for the repairs. She says that 
as the car did not overheat, it didnt prompt her to say anything. And, she says she just thought  it was 
normal to have to top up the coolant. Mrs B has been  consistent and credible  in what shes told us, 
and I think its reasonable  that she would only have  mentioned her experiences with the coolant, had 
FirstRand asked her about it directly. So, on balance, I think Mrs B did have to regularly  top the 
coolant up.
The accredited garage found  that the inlet manifold gasket  needed to be replaced. Mrs B was also 
told by her repairing  garage that there was a leak in the water pump  and EGR coolant kit. Both 
needed to be repaired. The repairing garage says that staining on the underside  of the engine,  shows 
that there had been a leak from the cooling system for a long period of time. So, I think  Mrs Bs 
experiences of having to regularly top up the coolant, are explained by the leaks found by the 
repairing garage.
Mrs B has provided  an invoice for £800, showing that these  repairs were carried out. And the 
repairing garage  provided  commentary  on the invoice, to say that its likely these problems were there 
when Mrs B got the car. Weve also spoken to the repairing garage and they have confirmed their 
comments. So, on balance,  I think its likely the car had problems with the leaks from the areas 
identified by the repairing garage, from the time Mrs B first got the car. 
The car was driven for around 11,000 miles  by Mrs B in the ten months after she got it. I dont  think  
the car was used excessively and Im not persuaded  that Mrs B would  have caused significant  wear  
and tear to the engine.  I think the cars engine  needed repair to key parts, which a reasonable  person  
would not have expected  to arrange, given its age and mileage. 
Six months  after the repair, Mrs B says the engine  management warning light came on. She says she 
took the car to a garage, which specialises in the cars  manufacturer and was told that its engine  
would need to be taken  apart, to find the reason. She also says that she was told not to drive  the car 
any further, as it could  cause more significant damage to the engine.
We didnt have anything to support Mrs Bs comments. So, I spoke to the mechanic at the garage 
which looked at the car. He says that there was low oil pressure in the engine,  caused by the failure of 
Ref: DRN78008167a coil. The mechanic also said this fault is common  with the type of engine in Mrs Bs car and that he 
wouldnt expect this part to have failed on a car, like Mrs Bs, which had covered around 38,000 miles. 
He says that this repair would normally be needed when  a car like Mrs Bs had covered  around 
100,000 miles.
Mrs B has provided  photographs  showing  the engine warning light and that the cars current mileage 
is 38,649. This means  that the car travelled around a further 6,000 miles since it was repaired  in 
November 2018. So, I think Mrs B covered  an expected amount  if miles since the first repair  and I 
dont think this caused the second problem  with the oil pressure.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its likely  Mrs B was told the car needs  further 
investigation and repair. Im persuaded by what Mrs B says and that shes not driven  the car because 
of what  the specialist  mechanic told her. I dont think a reasonable person  would  expect a car of the 
age, mileage and recent repair  history  of Mrs Bs to need further significant repairs.
In all the circumstances, I dont think a reasonable  person would  consider the car given to Mrs B by 
FirstRand, to be of satisfactory  quality.  The CRA says in instances where  goods do not perform to a 
contract, then the supplier  has the right to repair  them first. I think FirstRand had an opportunity to 
repair the car in November  2018. FirstRand say they didnt give Mrs B permission to repair the car. 
But, having looked at their contact records with Mrs B when she first contacted them about the 
problem, I think it was accepted  that her repairing garage would provide a report. I dont think  it was 
made clear enough during  this call, that Mrs B should stop the repairs and FirstRand recognised  that 
she could not afford to be without a car.
But, despite  the repair, I think the subsequent fault found in April 2019,  showed that the contract 
between Mrs B and FirstRand still hadnt  been fulfilled. So, I think its fair that FirstRand offer Mrs B 
another remedy. Mrs B no longer  wants to use the car, as shes lost faith in it. And it needs further 
repair. So, I think FirstRand should allow Mrs B to reject  the car and allow her to exit the hire 
purchase agreement at no cost to her. I also think  FirstRand  should  make arrangements  to collect the 
car from Mrs B, again at no cost to her.
the use Mrs B had from the car
Mrs B started using the car at the end of January 2018. I have found that the car was driven around 
11,000 miles  before it needed to be repaired  in November  2018. Ive also found that its likely  Mrs B 
had to regularly top up the coolant in the car throughout this time.  Mrs B says she had to do this every 
six to eight weeks, sometimes more frequently, if making  longer journeys. I think  this stopped Mrs B 
from using the car as a reasonable  person  would expect and she had to carry out checks, which she 
ought not have to have  done.
So, I think Mrs B had impaired use of the car for the first ten months of driving  it. I dont think its fair 
for FirstRand to have to refund all of Mrs Bs repayments from those  first ten months,  since she still 
managed to drive  the car around 11,000 miles.  But, I think there should  be a refund to reflect  the 
impaired use Mrs B had. So, I think a fair outcome would be for FirstRand to refund fifteen percent of 
each repayment made under the hire purchase agreement for the first ten months.
After the car was repaired, Mrs B says she continued to drive it until April 2019.  Mrs B told us around 
this time,  that the reason  she stopped  driving  the car, was because a specialist garage said that 
driving it would further damage the engine. I think it is reasonable for Mrs B to have stopped driving 
the car, once  she was told this by the specialist garage.
The recent  mileage  records sent to us by Mrs B, show the car has been  driven around 6,000  miles 
since the first repair in November  2018. I think this supports Mrs Bs comments that she stopped 
driving the car in April 2019, because it shows she covered around 1,000 miles in the six months from 
the repair.  And this is very similar to the monthly mileage the car had covered, before it was repaired.
 
Ref: DRN78008168I think  Mrs B has been  consistent  and credible  in what shes told us, and I think she stopped driving 
the car in April 2019. Ive said that Mrs Bs car was not what a reasonable  person would consider of 
satisfactory quality. So, I think  FirstRand  should refund to Mrs B, the repayments she made  under the 
hire purchase agreement, for the time shes had no use of the car. Having considered everything,  I 
think FirstRand should  refund all the repayments made by Mrs B since April 2019.
Mrs B has been without  the use of the funds she used for the repayments to FirstRand. So, I think  
FirstRand should also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date she made each of the 
repayments to the date this complaint is settled.
the additional costs Mrs B has incurred
In the time Mrs B hasnt  been able to use the car, shes still had to insure it. Mrs B has sent us a 
breakdown of her monthly  insurance  costs, proof  that she has paid for her Guaranteed Asset 
Protection (GAP) insurance policy and proof of the cost of cancelling the insurance. These costs 
come to £462.89 and Im persuaded that she has paid the premiums  and the GAP insurance, and will 
have to pay to cancel the insurance  policy. I can also see that Mrs B has taken  action to lower the 
monthly premium  by telling her insurer that the car isnt being used.  So, I think she has tried to limit 
her costs here.
Since April 2019, Mrs B has been unable  to use the car. So, I think  FirstRand should refund  the 
insurance costs  Mrs B has paid and will have to pay to cancel the policy. I dont think FirstRand 
should refund any of the insurance premiums before April 2019, because until this time,  Mrs B had 
use of the car and needed an insurance policy in place.
Mrs B has told us she paid to transfer a cherished  registration  plate from the car and has provided us 
with the receipt  from the DVLA.  This shows she paid £80 to the DVLA in April 2019. Ive said Mrs B 
should be allowed to reject the car. So, I think its fair that FirstRand refund  Mrs B the cost of 
transferring the cherished registration plate from the car.
Mrs B has been without  the use of the funds she paid for insurance and the cherished  registration 
plate. So, I think FirstRand should add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date she 
made these  payments, to the date this complaint is settled.
the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mrs B
Mrs B had difficulty getting an answer from FirstRand about them covering the cost for the repair of 
the car. Mrs B had already been to an accredited garage for a quote  and FirstRand knew that the 
repairing garage  thought the problems  were there at the point of sale. This left Mrs B in the unknown, 
until FirstRand sent her their final response. I think it would have been  more helpful if Mrs B had 
received news  about what she should do with the car sooner.
Also, Mrs B had to take the car back to another garage when the engine warning light came on in 
April 2019. Shes not been able to use the car since and has had to store  the car, whilst making sure 
it is safe. Mrs B says she used the car to get to and from her place  of work, in the next county. She 
says the transport links where  she lives are poor, so the car was very much  needed. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think Mrs B experienced distress  and inconvenience. In these 
circumstances, I think its fair that FirstRand make  a payment to Mrs B. So, I think FirstRand should  
pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience  she experienced.
Ref: DRN78008169my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mrs B 
or FirstRand by 24 February  2020, my provisional  decision is that FirstRand Bank  Limited trading as 
MotoNovo Finance should:  
10.allow  Mrs B to reject  the car, collect it from her and end the hire purchase agreement at no 
cost to her;
11.refund to Mrs B the £500 deposit;
12.pay Mrs B her £462.89  insurance policy and gap insurance policy costs 
13.pay Mrs B the £800  repair costs;
14.refund to Mrs B fifteen percent of each of the first ten repayments  she made  under the hire 
purchase agreement;
15.refund to Mrs B all the repayments shes made under the hire purchase agreement from April 
2019;
16.pay Mrs B £80 for the cost of removing the cherished plate  from the car;
17.Add interest on the amounts in parts 2,3,4,5,6 and 7, at an annual  rate of 8% simple from the 
date the payments were  made, to the date of settlement; and
18.pay Mrs B £250  for the distress and inconvenience  shes  been caused.
FirstRand must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mrs B accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement amount 
from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If FirstRand deducts  tax from any interest they pay to Mrs B, they should provide Mrs B with a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7800816