K822xsummary and background to complaint
Mr R has complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in November 2002 in connection with a mortgage. 
An adjudicator has looked at the case and found  that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) 
wasnt responsible  for the sale of the PPI and that a introducer was responsible.  Mr R has 
asked for an ombudsman to look into this so the case  has come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
The first thing I need to decide is whether YBS is responsible for the sale of the policy. If I 
decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  think 
YBS was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr R, then Im not going to be able to 
uphold a complaint about  the PPI sale against it.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and considered what YBS and Mr R have  told us 
about the sale.  
Mr R has told us that a financial advisor working  for Business A visited his home and 
recommended that he purchase PPI. He says that the sale of the PPI was around two years 
after the start of the mortgage and that it was recommended  by the same advisor from 
Business A. He says that he filled out the paperwork  with the financial advisor and that he 
never went directly to YBS for either  the mortgage  or PPI.
Mr R says that although the advisor worked  for Business A, he thinks  there was a 
connection with YBS as he recommended the YBS mortgage but that he also did 
independent advisory work at some point.  However, he says that he is not sure exactly what 
the financial advisors relationship with YBS was.
Mr R has provided us with a copy of the PPI application form which he says was filled in by 
the financial advisor and that he indicated on the form where Mr R should sign.  I have looked  
at the form and can see that there  were crosses  marked in the areas  which required Mr Rs 
signature.
YBS has confirmed that the mortgage  was taken out in August 2000. It has also confirmed 
that the mortgage itself was introduced through Business A. So this supports what  Mr R has 
said about there being an intermediary who dealt with his mortgage  application.  And so I 
think it is likely that what Mr R has told us about the sale of the PPI through the same 
intermediary is correct.  
There isnt enough  evidence to suggest  that the financial advisor was acting on behalf of 
YBS as an agent.  And YBS wouldnt be responsible for checking  that any advice given by a 
financial advisor acting  independently was correct.
In light of the above, I am satisfied that YBS was not responsible  for the sale of the mortgage 
and associated PPI. As YBS didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible  for the intermediary 
who did sell it), I cant find that YBS was responsible  for the sale. It follows  that it wasnt  
responsible for carrying out the sale properly.  So, as I dont think  it has done anything  wrong,  
I am not upholding  the complaint against YBS in respect of the mis-sale.
Ref: DRN77219122It appears that the person  who is responsible for the sale of the PPI is the financial  advisor,  
so Mr R would have  to complain to him about the mis-sale. However,  Mr R has informed  us 
that he has passed away. 
In any event, I can only consider a complaint  if it falls within  certain criteria laid down  in our 
case-handling rules, which are found  in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook (available online). The event that Mr R has complained about is insurance  
intermediation, that is, the marketing, advising and selling of insurance,  etc. This did not 
become a regulated activity until 14 January 2005.  
This sale took place  in 2002 and it therefore appears that the financial advisor was unlikely 
to have been regulated at the time the policy was sold in any event. So it follows  that I 
wouldnt have been able to consider this complaint against the financial advisor either  even if 
Mr R was able to make a complaint against  him.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  YBS didnt  tell Mr R, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr R any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr R the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr R 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that Yorkshire Building  Society  wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the PPI and therefore  I dont  uphold this complaint against  it.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7721912