K822xcomplaint
Mr Cs not happy  with how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with his claim made under a 
private medical insurance policy.
background 
Following a surgical procedure, Mr C suffered an infection and called BUPA  on 18 June 
2018 to check  that the cost of its treatment  would be covered. BUPA  told Mr C to ask the 
hospital for a procedure  code if it intended to bill for the treatment.  
On 19 June 2018, Mr C told BUPA that the hospital  did intend to bill for the treatment. BUPA  
told him that, because  of that, the policy wouldnt cover  the costs  and advised that he 
contact his GP surgery to get the treatment  he needed.
Mr C complained to BUPA about  the treatment not being covered by the policy.  On 21 June  
2018, BUPA  told him that in fact it would cover  the treatment regarding the infection as part 
and parcel of the initial procedure.
After Mr C complained to BUPA about the information it had given him, it wrote to him to 
apologise. Unhappy  with BUPAs response, Mr C complained to us.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld.  He asked 
BUPA to pay Mr C £250 as compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused  by its 
handling of the claim.  BUPA agreed to do so.
Mr C rejected the offer on the grounds  that BUPA should also pay for some  items of clothing 
he had to replace  due to his wound weeping. He supplied a receipt for the purchase of two 
shirts, costing him £54 in total.  
As BUPA refused  to cover the cost of the shirts  or otherwise increase its offer of 
compensation, the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint but only in part. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that BUPA could have handled Mr Cs claim better. It accepts it incorrectly 
asked Mr C to ask his treating hospital for a procedure code when it could have  checked  this 
with one of its internal  teams.  BUPA  also accepts  it incorrectly advised Mr C as to how the 
policy exclusion for drugs and dressings on an outpatient basis  might,  or might  not, apply  to 
his claim.  For both of these things, BUPAs apologised. 
More recently, and following our involvement,  BUPAs also offered £250  as compensation 
for the effects  of these above errors.  After  carefully  considering the impact on Mr C, I think 
that offers fair in the circumstances. I say that not least because,  although things first started 
to go wrong on 18 June 2018, BUPA corrected  and clarified its advice three  days later.  While  
theres no doubt in my mind that Mr C was caused inconvenience and unnecessary distress 
during that time, I believe BUPA acted relatively quickly to put things right.
Ref: DRN76310852That said,  Mr Cs asked that BUPA also compensate him for the cost of replacing two shirts  
that were damaged as a result  of him  due to BUPAs incorrect  advice  not being treated 
when he should  have been.
Ive looked at the sales receipt Mr Cs provided for the shirts he bought and note that its 
dated more than three months after BUPA told him the treatment regarding  the infection  
would be covered by the policy and, I gather, around  four months after the initial  procedure  
itself was carried out. While I appreciate what  Mr Cs said, I cant  say on balance that he 
likely incurred these costs  as a result of BUPAs actions. So Im not going to require that 
BUPA cover  them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. I require BUPA  
Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £250 in total as compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience its caused him (if it hasnt already paid it).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7631085