K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Vitality  Health Limited presented the reasons for the 
increase in the premium for his private medical  insurance policy.
background
In August  2017,  Vitality wrote to Mr B to tell him of changes it was making  to his private 
medical insurance policy which would take effect  when the policy renewed in February 2018. 
These changes included a new approach to calculating renewal premiums. Vitality said it 
would henceforth take account of only three factors. These factors were Age, Base medical  
inflation and Claims.  Vitality described  it as its ABC approach.
In January 2018, Vitality wrote to Mr B to tell him his premium at renewal  would rise by 15%. 
It provided a breakdown, according to which the base medical inflation rate accounted for an 
increase of 9.9%. However, Mr Bs wife also had a policy  with Vitality which renewed at the 
same time and according to her renewal  document the base medical inflation rate was only 
5.7%. Mr B was concerned at the discrepancy. He rang Vitality to question this.
Vitality eventually told Mr B his premium was subject to a higher increase because it had 
decided to impose a minimum price  for its policies and, unlike his wife, he was paying below 
this minimum.  It had therefore needed to adjust his base medical  inflation  rate accordingly.
Mr B decided to renew the policy having merged  his and his wifes  cover.  However, he 
complained to Vitality  that it had presented his offered renewal premium wrongly because it 
had included  more  than medical  inflation  in its calculation of his base medical inflation rate.
Vitality didnt accept it had done  anything wrong.  Mr B therefore referred his complaint  to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Vitality wrote to Mr B in August 2017  to draw his attention to the change  in the way it would 
calculate his renewal premium. It attached the policy document  in which  this change  was 
explained. Under the heading How your premium  can change,  the document stated:
We believe  that premium changes should  be fair, intuitive and transparent so, in this 
section, we have  outlined how we calculate  the changes to your premium at each 
annual renewal date.  We call this our ABC pricing approach.
We take the following into account  when  determining  your renewal premium:
A your Age. As it is more likely you will need  to claim as you get older, your 
premium will rise each year to take account of this.
B the Base medical inflation rate. This is the change in the cost of providing 
healthcare, taking into account  the charges made by hospitals and other 
providers, as well as advances  in areas  such as medical technology and 
drugs.
C an adjustment for the Claims you have made, and your Vitality status. This is 
the part of your renewal price  that you can control.
Ref: DRN71113952The increase  in your renewal premium will be the sum of these three items (A+ B 
+C).
When Vitality  wrote  to Mr B with his 2018  renewal  offer, the letter quoted his renewal 
premium and stated:
Your premium for this plan year includes your ABC premium  adjustment of:
Age 5.79%
Base medical inflation rate 9.9%
Claims and engagement 0%
Total ABC premium adjustment  15.69%
However, Mr B noted that his wifes renewal letter, which had a similar presentation, cited  a 
base medical inflation  rate of only 5.7%.
I agree  with Mr B that an insurer is generally  free to decide how much to charge for it 
policies. Provided  it exercises this discretion  fairly and consistently,  in line with its internal 
guidelines, this is a matter in which we wouldnt normally  interfere. If an insurer decides to 
impose a minimum charge for its policies,  it may generally do so. It furthermore isnt 
generally obliged  to disclose that it is doing this, or to provide detailed information  about its 
method of calculating premiums.
I furthermore think  that Vitality wasnt bound to calculate Mr Bs 2018 renewal premium in 
line with the new policy document. The document didnt take effect  until after his policy  had 
renewed in 2018.  Therefore, the policys rules about calculating the renewal premium strictly 
speaking wouldnt apply  until Mr Bs 2019 renewal. I therefore think  that Vitality was allowed 
to increase Mr Bs premium at the 2018 renewal to bring this up to the minimum level it had 
decided to impose.
However, Vitality chose to present the increase to Mr Bs 2018  premium by reference  to its 
ABC approach. And this meant it had to disguise the increase due to its new minimum price 
as an increase in the base medical  inflation rate.
I think this was misleading. The base medical  inflation rate is described  as the change in the 
cost of providing healthcare. As such,  I would expect it to be consistent across  all 
policyholders (or at least across all policyholders  on the same scheme and living  in the same  
area). But Vitality effectively decided  how much it should charge Mr B for his policy and then 
manipulated the base medical  inflation  rate to whatever level was necessary  to justify this 
increase.
What this means is that certain policyholders, without their knowledge,  have been  given a 
personalised base medical  inflation rate which I do not regard as transparent as claimed by 
Vitality and which could  cause them to be misled as to the true cause of their premium 
increase. In the case of Mr B, I cant say that he was misled  because he had his wifes 
renewal letter to which he could compare. He eventually took the informed decision to merge 
his policy  with that of his wife. Nonetheless, I think he has been  caused a degree  of trouble 
and upset due to Vitalitys  initial presentation of his renewal premium  and its failure  to 
acknowledge its error. I think it should pay him £100 compensation for this.
Ref: DRN71113953Mr B has further asked that Vitality be made to contact all customers affected by its decision 
to impose a minimum charge for its policies and tell them  of the true reasons for their 
premium increase. He has also asked  that Vitality be made to alter the wording of its policy  
document and advertising materials to reflect the true nature of its pricing  policy. However, 
we are a dispute  resolution organisation, not an industry regulator.  My role is simply to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint with Vitality and Im satisfied that my proposed award of £100 
compensation does  that. It is beyond my role to tell Vitality how it should run its business  for 
the sake of its other customers.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Both parties  agreed to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties agreed to the provisional  decision and neither offered any further 
comment, Im happy that the decision should  stand for the reasons given within that 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111395