K820x#14Complaint
Ms B complains  that OneSavings Bank  Plc (trading as Kent Reliance) treated her unfairly 
and undersold her property after she fell into arrears on her commercial mortgage, leaving 
her with a shortfall.
Background
In 2006, Ms B took out a commercial mortgage on a shop unit. She rented the unit to a retail  
business on a nine-year lease. In 2008,  Ms B re-mortgaged with Kent Reliance on an 
interest-only basis. That meant monthly  payments  would only cover  the interest charged on 
the £247,500 capital  borrowing  and the capital  would  only become due at the end of the 
23-year term.
Kent Reliance says Ms Bs mortgage  payments were erratic from the outset. It wrote to her 
in August 2010 warning that Law of Property Act (LPA) receivers  would  be instructed if she 
didnt clear the arrears.  She did clear them in January 2011  but soon fell behind  with her 
payments again.  Kent Reliance wrote to her again  in October  2011,  warning that it might  
take further action  if the account  wasnt brought up to date. As the arrears remained,  it 
appointed LPA receivers in January 2012. 
The LPA receivers started receiving rent payments from Ms Bs tenants directly,  which  were 
used to help repay the mortgage balance. The property was put to auction in May 2012  but 
didnt receive any bids which  matched the reserve price. It ended up being sold at auction for 
£150,000 in October 2013. During this period, Ms B asked  for the LPA receivers to be 
removed  but Kent Reliance refused.  The sale left her with around £100,000 outstanding on 
her mortgage. 
Ms B complained to Kent Reliance.  It said it hadnt  acted unfairly, as it had relied on 
evidence from the LPA receivers and auctioneers to decide how to proceed.  
Unhappy with this response,  Ms B asked our service  to review her complaint. She thought 
the agents might have  sold [the property] to someone they knew. Our investigator 
explained that the mortgage was unregulated, meaning he was largely limited to checking 
whether Kent Reliance  had followed  the terms of the mortgage agreement.  And from what  
hed seen, he was satisfied that it hadnt  breached the terms or acted unreasonably. So he 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Ms B didnt accept this view. She said she hadnt  seen Kent Reliances letters about her 
arrears. She also didnt think the property had been  sold at a reasonable price  and queried 
why it had been sold at all. At Ms Bs request, her case has been  escalated to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons.
Ref: DRN75749132Ms B had a buy-to-let  mortgage with Kent Reliance. As such,  it didnt fall under the same  
financial regulations  which  apply to residential  mortgages. That means Kent Reliance wasnt  
required to give Ms B the same level of support as a residential mortgage customer. But Id 
still expect it to follow the terms and conditions of the mortgage agreement  in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Kent Reliance says it cant provide the terms and conditions from when Ms B took out the 
mortgage in 2008. The earliest it can provide  date from November 2013. In the absence of 
anything to suggest the terms changed  significantly between 2008 and 2013, Ive relied  on 
these. 
Condition 17 says Kent Reliance can demand immediate repayment of the balance if certain 
events happen,  including: 
you are in arrears meaning that you have  failed to make any two Monthly Payments in 
full on the Payment Dates and at the time of our demand those Monthly Payments still 
have not been paid in full 
Condition 27.3 says:
If any of the events  in condition 17occur, which gives us the right to demand that you 
immediately pay the Outstanding Balance, we can: 
a.Take possession  of the Property or if the Property is let, collect  any rent payable
b.Exercise our right to sell the Property
c.Appoint  a receiver under condition 28 below
And from Condition 28.1:
At any time after we have demanded payment of any of the Outstanding  Balance  by 
you under  condition 27, we may appoint  a receiver We have  the right to decide 
what the receiver will be paid, to change  the receiver at any time and to appoint  
another one if we believe it is reasonable to do so
As Ms B missed more than two monthly payments, Im satisfied Kent Reliance was within  its 
contractual rights to appoint LPA receivers; use them to collect  rent; and sell the property. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered whether  it applied  the terms Ive set out above in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
Ms B says she didnt  receive Kent Reliances letters  about her arrears.  Regardless, it was 
her responsibility to make her contractual payments. Additionally, Ive seen letters from the 
time which warned  her about the arrears and the possibility of further action. Although post 
can go missing,  on balance  it seems  more likely that these correctly-addressed letters  were 
received. There are also phone records which show she told Kent Reliance she had 
received the letters but hadnt  opened them. Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Kent Reliance to exert  its contractual rights and appoint LPA receivers  to pursue the arrears. 
The LPA receivers started receiving rent directly from the tenants and it used this to clear the 
arrears. After that, I understand the rent was sufficient to cover  the monthly interest Ms B 
had been expected to make under the mortgage  agreement. She asked Kent Reliance  to 
remove the receivers  but it declined. Its explained it was concerned that further arrears 
would accrue if the rent was paid to Ms B directly, given the history  of erratic  payments.
Ref: DRN75749133In line with Condition  17, Kent Reliance was contractually entitled to demand  immediate 
repayment of the whole outstanding balancenot  just the monthly  interestwhen it 
appointed the LPA receivers. Even  if the rent was enough to cover the interest,  the capital 
borrowing would need to be repaid at some point. Considering  this and given the account  
history, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Kent Reliance to decline Ms Bs request.
Kent Reliance attempted to sell the property at auction in March  2012. It set a reserve price  
of £235,000. This was higher than the market  valuations  it received of around £200,000. 
From what  Kent Reliance has told us, it wanted  to see if it could  sell the property at a higher 
price to minimise  the outstanding  balance  Ms B would be liable  for. Equally, it didnt want  to 
sell prematurely if there was a chance it could use the rent payments to help lower the 
balance first. I dont consider that unreasonable. Ultimately, as the property didnt sell, 
Kent Reliance held onto it and continued to use the rent payments to reduce the balance 
before attempting another sale.
Unfortunately, the value  of the property  dropped  further. That doesnt necessarily mean 
Kent Reliance was wrong to hold out on the sale. I cant consider this complaint with the 
benefit of hindsight; I have to think about what was reasonably known  at the time. According 
to the inspection conducted  in August 2013, the reason for the fall in value was a retail 
downturn in the area. Some retail units near Ms Bs hadnt been  able to establish leases so 
were left empty. That seemed likely to affect the ability  to secure  a new lease on Ms Bs unit 
when the existing one ended in July 2015  and on what terms. I consider this a reasonable 
explanation for the drop in value. And I havent seen anything which persuades  me that 
Kent Reliance should reasonably have foreseen the changes in the local retail market. So I 
cant fairly conclude  that it should have known to sell earlier  particularly as it continued  to 
receive rent payments  and use these to reduce the balance. 
In October  2013, Kent Reliance accepted a bid for £150,000. This matches the valuation 
given in the inspection report from August 2013   which advised Kent Reliance to auction 
the property for between £150,000 and £165,000 with a guide price  of £140,000+  to 
stimulate interest. Ms B disputes  this valuation and has provided a valuation  of £260,000 
from 2004. But this predates  the 2008  financial crash. And she hasnt provided  any 
comparable, contemporaneous evidence to challenge the 2013  valuation. So I consider it 
reasonable for Kent Reliance to rely on the valuation from the report/inspection. 
Kent Reliance has also explained that it was concerned about  further  losses if it held onto 
the property for much  longer.  Im conscious  that the sale price  it achieved was in line with 
the recent valuation. And that, when  the property had been put on the market at a higher 
price, no sale had been achieved. It couldnt hold onto the property indefinitely; there was a 
large outstanding balance,  and interest and fees were continuing to accrue. So, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Kent Reliance  to sell the property when it did.
Although Ms B says the property may have  been sold to someone known to the companies 
involved in the sale, I havent seen anything  to support this allegation. Taking all of this into 
account, I consider  it reasonable  that Kent Reliance  accepted  the bid. 
Ref: DRN75749134The terms make  it clear  that Ms B must pay any shortfall left over from a sale. Condition  8.2 
says:
If the Property has been sold and the Outstanding Balance has not been  paid off in 
full, the shortfall  will become immediately repayable. You must pay the shortfall even 
if we have agreed to discharge the Mortgage
Overall, Im satisfied that Kent Reliance didnt breach  the terms of the agreement  or 
otherwise act unreasonably.  So I dont consider it liable for clearing the shortfall  or paying 
Ms B compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7574913