K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a regular  premium  mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy when she took out a mortgage  with the bank.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to reject Mrs Cs complaint and 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  representations.
I have now received responses  from both parties.
HSBC says it accepts the provisional decision and has nothing further to add.
Mrs Cs representative doesnt  agree  with my provisional decision. I will not repeat all of its 
submissions here but, in summary, it says:
A deferment period of 26 weeks means  that the policy isnt suitable for Mrs C.
The fact the policy doesnt cover unemployment  means that it isnt a suitable 
recommendation.
The advice given  to Mrs C at the time of the sale was incorrect.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I thank Mrs Cs representatives for their 
comments and Ive considered them alongside  all the evidence and arguments submitted by 
both parties, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable.
Having considered all of the evidence,  I have reached the same conclusions  as set out in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. However, I would like to make the following 
comments:
The MPPI policy did not have a 26 week deferment period. Following a successful 
claim, any benefit would be payable from the 31st day of continuous absence from 
work. And each  successful claim could be paid for a period of up to 12 months.
The policy that Mrs C bought covered her in the event she wasnt working due to 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
For the reasons  I gave in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that the advice 
HSBC gave Mrs C when it recommended she purchase MPPI was suitable for her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium.
Ref: DRN72333682Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN72333683Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a regular premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy when  she took out a mortgage with the bank.
background
In 2003 HSBC sold MPPI  to Mrs C for a mortgage in a meeting. The MPPI provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and cost £17.82 a month. For a successful claim  it wouldve  
paid the monthly mortgage  for up to 12 months and it provided a monthly benefit of £300.
The policy was amended  in December 2005 when  Mrs C took out a secured  loan. The monthly  
benefit was increased to £400 and the new monthly cost was £23.76.  The policy was cancelled in 
January 2016 when the mortgage was redeemed.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Cs complaint  but HSBC disagreed with this. So, the complaint comes to 
me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.  Having done so 
Ive decided to reject Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain  why.
HSBC had to make clear  the MPPI was optional  and make  sure Mrs C agreed to take it. Mrs C hasnt 
given us much detail  about  this. And HSBC doesnt have all the paperwork from that meeting in 2003. 
In situations like this, I have to base  my findings  on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is 
more likely  to have  happened, taking into account what I know about  HSBCs MPPI sales around this 
time.
I think  its understandable that neither party has detailed information about  how the MPPI was sold  
the sale was so many  years  ago  and the mortgage and the policy are now closed. In his 
assessment of Mrs Cs complaint our adjudicator  said he didnt think  there was enough evidence to 
suggest either  that Mrs C was given  the opportunity  during the sale to actively confirm she wanted  to 
take the MPPI policy out or that she had to sign separately for it.
I can see why our adjudicator reached this conclusion   HSBC hasnt been able to give us any 
paperwork showing Mrs C actively  agreed to the MPPI  (by ticking a box, for example) or signing  for it. 
But we do have detailed information  about  the personal  financial planning  review meeting  she had 
with HSBC that took place in October 2002, where  it seems her various insurance needs were 
discussed at length. From this, and from a copy  of a letter HSBC sent Mrs C after the meeting, its 
clear HSBCs adviser recommended an MPPI policy amongst other things  to Mrs C. And, given  the 
information weve got about the detailed  discussions that took place, I think  its likely  Mrs C accepted 
those recommendations, knowing she didnt have to. Because of this I cant  fairly say that its likely 
HSBC did do things to make Mrs C think  the PPI wasnt optional. Or that Mrs C didnt agree  to take it 
at the time.
So looking  at everything Ive got, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to continue  to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint for the reason our adjudicator  gave. 
I think  HSBC recommended the MPPI  it advised  Mrs C to take it out  so it had to take adequate  
steps to make sure it was suitable for Mrs C. I dont know what  was said to Mrs C about  MPPI or 
whether HSBC took adequate  steps.  But I dont need to make a decision about this. Because even if 
HSBC didnt  take adequate steps, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs C for the following  reasons. 
Ref: DRN72333684Mrs C was eligible for the policy  so she wasnt buying insurance that wouldve been of no 
benefit to her and she shouldve  been  able to claim  on the policy if shed needed  to. And Ive 
set out the policys  costs and benefits above.
Mrs C was working when she bought the policy  she told us she wouldnt have been entitled 
to any sick pay from her employer if she wasnt  working. So if Mrs C couldnt work, nothing  
Ive seen suggests  its likely she couldve paid the monthly  mortgage and her other living 
costs once any savings she may have had ran out. 
This is because the MPPI  was intended to remove the additional pressure of maintaining 
mortgage repayments, at what would likely  be a difficult time. Furthermore, the mortgage was 
taken out over a number  of years and the MPPI policy wouldve paid the monthly  mortgage 
costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim. So I think  it was prudent  for Mrs C to 
purchase PPI. 
Nothing Mrs C told us suggested she needed  to keep her costs down. And there wasnt 
anything in the MPPI  that would  make it difficult for Mrs C to claim. For example,  Mrs C told 
us she was in work at the time she was covered by the insurance and she said she was in 
good health when the policy  was sold. So she wouldnt  have been affected by things in it 
about unusual work or known health issues. 
So taking everything into account,  I think the MPPI was suitable for Mrs C.
HSBC needed to properly  explain the MPPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It hasnt told 
us anything that shows  what  was actually said to Mrs C about this. So I cant  say its likely HSBC  did 
give Mrs C everything  she needed to know before  deciding to take MPPI. 
But did Mrs C lose out as a result - would she have taken the policy if HSBC  had properly told her 
about it?
Ive explained why I think the MPPI was suitable. So given her circumstances at the time of the sale,  I 
think Mrs C wouldve thought the MPPI gave her important cover to protect  the repayments on her 
home. And that its costs and benefits were competitive  and gave peace of mind. So I dont think  Mrs 
C lost out. Because  I think she wouldve taken the policy if shed been  given enough  proper 
information about it. And as the MPPI policy was a regular premium policy, Mrs C couldve cancelled  
it whenever she wanted, without penalty, if she decided she no longer needed the cover or could no 
longer afford it.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mrs C. 
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs C because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because HSBC didnt  tell Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right,  HSBC has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of 
the MPPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mrs C any extra  interest she paid because of 
that.
Ref: DRN72333685HSBC should pay back to Mrs C the extra  she paid each month  because  the commission and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. HSBC should also pay Mrs C 8%* simple 
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the MPPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold   so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs C.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.
I now invite  Mrs C and HSBC  UK Bank Plc to give me further new information theyd like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7233368