K822xcomplaint
Miss B says St Jamess  Place UK plc (SJP) mishandled its undertaking, on 21 November 
2018 (the reversion date), to reverse investment switch instructions she had given on the 
previous day. She instructed the reversion  following  a change of mind.  She says the delays  
caused, and errors made, by SJP were  in breach of its duty to apply due diligence and 
appropriate care in the reversion process; and that SJP also failed to properly  manage  and 
address complaints she made with regards  to the process.
background 
Miss B says she has been a client of SJP since 2008 and that she was entitled to two free 
investment switches annually. She considers  that her switch instructions on 20 November 
2018 (the switch date) and on the reversion  date fell within this allocation of free switches.  
SJP says the reversion process required in her case was beyond a regular switch  and was 
applied, without charge, as an act of goodwill. Her instructions (both switch and reversion) 
related to an investment portfolio  holding her Income Distribution Bond (IDB), Income  
Bond (IB), Individual Savings Account (ISA), Unit Trust (UT) and Pension  that had a 
total value of around £800,000. She says SJPs errors and delays have mainly included:
Reversion  of her investments executed  at random  dates;  then initial reversions, for all 
the investments,  being found  to have been wrongly executed; and then all the 
investments having to be switched at least three times in the course of SJPs efforts 
to correct its errors. 
Repeated and unexplained delays throughout the reversion  process  a delayed 
process that lasted  around two years.
Transfer statements for the investments being generated without dates and times  of 
transfers set out.
Lack of transparency and of an audit trail with regards to SJPs handling of her 
complaints about the matter.
Around a year after the event, following referral of the matter to this service and as of 20 
December 2019,  Miss B said the following, broadly, remained  outstanding from SJP:
Hard copies of the historical valuations of her ISA and UT which reflect  their correct 
holdings on the switch date.
The same  with regards to the IDB, IB and pension.
Revision of the distribution statements  for the IDB to reflect  the correct 
unit/distributions held.
Adjustments to quarterly and annual valuations  for all the investments in order to 
accurately reflect  the reversions  impact  upon them   the example of £600 lost in 
error when making the trade on [Miss Bs] IDB was cited.
One of our lead adjudicators had conduct of the case. Just over a year after Miss Bs 
summary of December 2019,  after extensive  investigations and progressive mediation 
(between the parties) led by the adjudicator, and as of 23 February 2021, SJP provided a 
statement and associated  documents. The associated documents were:
Unit statements that SJP said demonstrated up to date amendments to Miss Bs 
accounts.
A statement showing amended asset  values as at 31 December 2020.
An updated Wealth Account (WA).
Ref: DRN76092942Example Service and Costs Disclosure  documents.
Investment Bond  switch confirmations.
In the main,  and in terms of resolving Miss Bs complaint, the statement said as follows:
SJPs legal team has met the Data  Subject Access  Request  (DSAR)  submitted  by 
Miss B and she has been given all the information she asked for. She has not been 
given versions of that information in the alternative  formats  she asked for because  
they are not readily available in those  formats. The same applies to her request for 
information on daily valuations from 2018, they are not readily available so have not 
been provided.
SJP acknowledges  that Miss B has referred to her overall experience  in the matter  
and has expressed  a lack of confidence  in its ability  to administer her investments, 
and her concern  about being deprived of an ongoing financial advice service. It 
confirms an open-ended offer to her to move her investments away  from SJP without  
penalty and with a waiver  of all Early  Withdrawal Charges (EWCs).  It does not 
accept that Miss B has been  deprived  of an ongoing  advisory service. It apologises 
for confusion caused by some of its correspondence but notes that they were  part of 
its significant efforts to answer as many as possible of the voluminous and 
sometimes duplicative incoming correspondence from Miss B (around 400 emails  
over 26 months). It also notes that it met with her quarterly  (for two to four hours  in 
each meeting) prior to the COVID-19 outbreak and continued those meetings 
thereafter through Zoom.
Upon a detailed  review of the portfolio by its actuaries in December 2020, SJP 
confirms that Miss B has not suffered a financial loss in the matter.  As of the review, 
all her assets  were  in the correct position based on no switches  having taken 
placed [sic] between  20 and 22 November 2018.  Its actuaries then conducted further 
corrective work sought and agreed by Miss B and completed this in January 2021.  
Following that work, SJP believes Miss Bs assets are now  in the best financial 
position  [they] could reasonably be in had there been no instructions ever given 
back in 2018.  Its actuaries also identified an Annual Management  Charge  (AMC)  
overpayment by Miss B, which was corrected.
SJP paid Miss B £2,000 for the trouble and upset caused to her by its errors and 
delays in the matter and it considers  that a significant sum of compensation to her in 
that respect. 
In the above  context,  Miss Bs request  for historical documentation  to reflect  the new 
positions of her assets is one it cannot reasonably  address. Her assets new 
positions have  resulted  from retroactive adjustments which  will not change the 
historical documentation. Both the former and the latter are as they are in their 
respective rights,  and it follows that the latter cannot reflect the former.
The £2,000 payment made by SJP to Miss B resulted from the adjudicators  mediation  
efforts and it was made in addition to a previous £500 payment  making a total of £2,500 
paid to Miss B. He did this subsequent to his initial view on the complaint, in which  he did not 
consider that SJP was culpable as she had alleged. Thereafter, his efforts  featured  
increasingly more  in the mediation of a resolution between the parties  contributing to the 
achievement of the additional payment(s) to Miss B and to progress in SJPs correction 
processes and explanation of those processes.
In terms of the background to the complaint, SJPs statement mainly said:
Ref: DRN76092943The switch instruction  in which Miss B asked  to move all her investments into SJPs 
Defensive model portfolio  was valid, so it was right to act upon it based  on prices 
relevant at the time.  It apologises for misinforming her when she called and gave  the 
reversion instruction on the reversion date. It told her that action  had not yet been  
taken on her pension  and bonds,  and that none would be taken  in light of the 
reversion instruction, but it did not act on this and the switches were  applied. Miss Bs 
SJP partner corrected  this on 22 November and Miss B complained on 10 
December. 
Valid switches are normally irreversible  in terms  of reinstating investments pre-
switch position(s)  so in Miss Bs case, in response  to her specific  wish to return her 
assets to their pre-switch states  and based wholly on SJPs goodwill, a special 
bespoke process of reversions had to be applied. The aim was to return her assets 
as closely as possible to their pre-switch states,  given that exact matches  were  
unlikely due to unit price movements. This was completed on 18 January 2019. 
However, based upon even more goodwill from SJP, the decision was made to go 
further and to cancel back all the original  switches for the prospect of an even  better 
outcome for Miss B. This was concluded  on 22 February 2019.  During  these 
processes, it acknowledges that information available to Miss B  including the 
Annual WAs of December  2018  and December 2020  would have been confusing, 
did not reflect the ongoing work that was being performed and did not reflect the true 
state of her assets, but its underlying intentions and efforts  were  well meaning.
The £600 Miss B has referred to relates to mistaken growth in one of her Investment 
Bonds whilst it was held in the Defensive Portfolio. She was erroneously told about 
this growth and about growth of £200  in another bond, and SJP believes this could 
have been caused  by mistaken manual calculations. The correct calculations [details 
of which  were set out in the statement] shows that the former  bond lost £33.96 whilst 
it was held in the Defensive  Portfolio and its value would  have increased by £42.16  if 
there had been no switch;  and the latter bond gained  £346.73  whilst  it was in the 
Defensive Portfolio  and its value would have  decreased by £22.19  if there had been 
no switch. The corrections  to the portfolio have reflected  these.
Around the time of, but prior to, SJPs  statement, Miss Bs communications  highlighted the 
following as the main issues she considered unresolved and as her positions  on them:
Overall dissatisfaction  with what she considers to be a succession  of misinformation 
and inaccuracies  from SJP throughout the two years (plus) over which the matter has 
been protracted, and up to the set of information in SJPs December 2020 
communications.
Overall dissatisfaction  with what she considers to be SJPs mishandling of the matter  
(and misleading behaviour) at the outset and around November 2018  when she gave 
the reversion instruction and was assured  from then and up to around February 
2019  about its execution and assured  that all matters  were  in hand.
Overall dissatisfaction  with what she considers to be SJPs poor communications  and 
engagement with her throughout  especially what she views  as SJPs campaign  to 
marginalise and stonewall her throughout.
Destruction, by SJP and its overall  conduct,  of her confidence in it and in its ability  to 
administer her assets. 
The erroneous valuations and Annual  WAs; unmet requests for the 2021 annual  
valuations in paper  format; and unmet  requests for hard copies of all the trades made  
in SJPs corrective work in the portfolio.
Lack of transparency and accuracy about what was held in the Defensive Portfolio 
and for how long.
Ref: DRN76092944Concern, based on the 2020 valuations, that the IDB had seriously underperformed, 
concern about  the £600 loss from it, doubt about SJPs  claim of an erroneous  manual 
calculation and concern about  the lack of information and documentation  about how 
all the errors committed in relation to the IDB have been addressed and/or resolved.
Concerns about a 1.4% deficit in her ISA early in the matter,  about the lack of 
explanation of how it occurred, about the lack of information about its full impact and 
about whether  (or not) it has been  properly resolved.
Lack of confidence  in the work performed by SJPs actuaries.
Concern that despite SJPs offer to waive EWCs  they still appeared in valuations she 
received dated  17 February 2021.
Strong disagreement  with SJP portraying  itself as having  acted with goodwill. 
Instead, she has experienced  the opposite, with profoundly detrimental effects on her 
health and wellbeing.
SJPs breach, overall, of its obligations  under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
and of its regulatory obligations.
Acknowledgement of the £2,500 payment received from SJP,  but the assertion that 
matters remain unresolved. She requests  that the Ombudsman  rules on her need for 
historical valuation  documentation in an accessible format,  in order  to independently 
verify the corrections  SJP claims to have made; and that the Ombudsman  addresses 
the loss of opportunity (to transact with her assets  and to draw income)  she has 
incurred throughout  the matter. She also does not consider that SJP can justify  the 
charges for its service, given how poorly  it has emerged from the entire matter.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I am persuaded  to do no more than endorse  the total payment SJP has 
made to Miss B, which I consider to be a resolution of the trouble and upset the entire matter 
has caused her, and to convey  with reasons   my overall and balanced conclusions that 
SJP has restored her portfolio, does not need to do more in this respect and does not have 
to refund charges received for its service  to her.
Trouble and Upset
Miss B has undeniably and undoubtedly  been through  a drawn  out and stressful experience.  
I am mindful  that the experience began directly  because of the nature of her reversion 
request  one which went  beyond  an ordinary  switch and, broadly  speaking, required 
working, backwards,  to reinstate  assets (in, or as close as possible to, their original states)  
that had already been changed. I do not suggest that Miss B was the cause of her own 
experience, she was not and the problems that arose throughout the correction processes 
have essentially been conceded by SJP as being  its responsibility   as I find that they were.  
However, the points  to note are that the processes sought to achieve a form of time reversal,  
in the context of Miss Bs portfolio; that was always going to be a significant endeavour given 
the components  and values in the portfolio  and, importantly, given the fact that the wider 
market which had an important, ongoing and direct  effect on the portfolio was neither frozen  
nor reversible; so it could be said that SJPs task was to reconcile retroactive  variables in the 
portfolio with uncontrollable  forward moving variables in the wider market.  
Ref: DRN76092945For the sake of clarity, I do not suggest  in any way a justification for the errors SJP 
committed in the processes which impacted  upon  Miss Bs trouble and upset.  I repeat, SJP 
has essentially conceded responsibility for those  errors, so that much is settled. However, I 
do consider that SJP was faced with a difficult task in which  the possibility of errors  arising  
could not reasonably have been  unforeseeable.
I also consider it relevant  that, contrary to Miss Bs argument, SJP did act out of goodwill at 
the outset and appears to have continued to do so when it decided (twice, it appears)  to 
extend its corrections  even further in order to seek an even better outcome for her. I am 
satisfied with evidence  that her instruction  on the switch date was valid, so this case  is not 
about changes  to a portfolio that were wrongly  made by SJP and had to be repaired by SJP. 
Upon receipt of the reversion instruction, SJP could have taken the position  that reversion 
could not happen and that it would do no more than conduct the simpler task of another 
switch, if that was what Miss B wanted. Instead,  it decided to grant and pursue the full-scale  
reversion and, as the adjudicator noted, it did so without  charge and completely  at its own 
costs (including its time, efforts and resources).
The sum of the above observations is that the significant trouble  and upset caused  to Miss B 
must be acknowledged and properly compensated, however that must be done  in the 
context of SJPs goodwill  and sincere,  but unfortunately imperfect, efforts  throughout the 
matter. The total amount  of £2,500 that Miss B has received falls into the category of awards 
this service would  make  for cases in which severe trouble and upset has been caused  to a 
complainant. I am not persuaded that her overall  experience can reasonably be described  as 
being beyond  severe. As such,  I consider that the compensation she has received fairly 
resolves the trouble and upset she has experienced in the matter.
Miss Bs portfolio
The background summary provided above shows that the processes of correcting the 
portfolio, reviewing corrections, correcting  the portfolio further,  reviewing those corrections, 
identifying errors, correcting errors, identifying more errors, correcting those  errors  and then 
reviewing the portfolio  further and making even further corrections to it spanned the full 
period between November 2018  and January 2021. In January 2021  Miss Bs consent was 
obtained for what appears to have been SJPs final correction work on the portfolio.
This case features  a substantial amount of communications and submissions, from both 
parties but mainly  from Miss B. Numerous  specific details have been highlighted and 
debated in the cross  correspondence  between the parties and those in which the adjudicator  
was included. I assure the parties that I have considered their respective  submissions  on the 
different matters that have been  queried  or have been in dispute.  However,  it is important for 
this decision to be directed towards delivering  a conclusion to the complaint and to our 
alternative dispute resolution/ADR-based process  for the complaint  as opposed to unduly 
reviving settled debates  and/or unduly  creating new open-ended ones. As such,  my focus 
has been on the current state  of affairs and on whether (or not) that state of affairs delivers  a 
fair outcome for Miss B. Overall and on balance I consider that it does, and I draw the 
following conclusions:
Documentation  I am satisfied with the documents attached to SJPs statement of 
23 February 2021 and that they provide Miss B with an accurate picture of SJPs full 
efforts to achieve  the reversion she wants. I am also persuaded that the latest 
documents, those  which were  accurate  and previously disclosed (within and beyond  
Ref: DRN76092946the DSAR disclosure) and SJPs accompanying explanations  amount  to adequate 
transparency and show, on balance,  that SJP eventually achieved  that reversion 
without financial loss to her. I make this finding mindful that the entire exercise was to 
achieve the best balance  between the pursuit of the best retroactive outcome for 
Miss Bs portfolio whilst also seeking and achieving reconciliation with a dynamic  
forward moving market. My finding  on the absence of a financial loss is in the same 
context and, overall, I consider that SJP achieved this. I acknowledge and agree with 
Miss Bs right to obtain independent  verification of the documents and their contents.  
I do not consider  that SJP has done anything to hinder that. The documentation  and 
information that has been disclosed to her to date appears to be sufficient for such  a 
purpose. Where  it is beyond SJPs capability to re-present that information in the 
alternative formats she seeks, or with regards to the daily valuation information  from 
2018 that are no longer available, it would  not be reasonable to cite those as reasons  
to disregard the [adequate] disclosure  that it has already  provided.  I also agree with 
SJPs position  on her request for historical  documentation to reflect the new positions 
of her assets. It stands  to reason  that the historical documents will show what they 
presented at the relevant  time and that they cannot  reasonably be expected  to show  
valuation information  that arose subsequently.  If Miss Bs request relates to revisions 
of erroneous historical information, that has been  addressed  and resolved  
separately in the documents SJP disclosed to her.
Financial Loss   As stated above, I am satisfied that the corrections  applied  to Miss 
Bs portfolio  have  been done  without a financial loss to her. The balance of available  
evidence does  not state otherwise. The £600 loss matter, as I shall refer to it, was 
identified as an error and was addressed within the wider corrections that took place. 
I consider SJPs explanation of the error  and its correction to be credible. The same  
applies to the AMC overpayment that was identified. Following its statement of 23 
February SJP wrote  to us to address the issue about the ISA and the 1.4%  deficit. It 
confirmed that this resulted from another, slight, error early  in the reversion 
processes which has since been rectified  in the corrections  to date. I am satisfied 
with this explanation and with evidence in the corrected  statements which  do not 
appear to show the deficit. Similar to what I said above, I acknowledge Miss Bs right 
to get independent  verification of whether  (or not) she has suffered a financial loss. 
This includes verification  of the review performed by SJPs  actuaries, which  she is 
doubtful about. Nevertheless, the present state  (and balance)  of evidence supports 
the conclusion  that SJPs  calculations are correct and that no financial loss exists. 
EWCs  and Penalties  Miss B has expressed her lack of confidence in SJP 
administering her portfolio and SJP confirmed in its statement that it will waive  EWCs 
and penalties in any outbound transfer of the portfolio instructed by her. It re-stated 
its commitment  to this in an email sent directly to Miss B. I consider this point 
resolved. Miss B can move her portfolio  away from SJP if she wishes  and it will apply 
no charges for that.
Miss Bs Points
Many of these points have already been  addressed  above. For those  that have not, I 
consider as follows:
The overall dissatisfaction  she has expressed about SJPs  errors, erroneous 
assurances, misinformation  and mishandling  of the reversion processes is catered 
for by the compensation she received for trouble and upset. I consider that the 
Ref: DRN76092947compensation addresses the trouble and upset caused to her by these matters  and 
no financial  loss has resulted from them.
I do not accept that SJP sought  to marginalise or stonewall her. I do not dismiss her 
feelings in these respects, but it is reasonable to consider  those feelings  alongside  
evidence of how SJP managed its engagement with her. It could not reasonably have 
responded to each  one of the 400 plus emails she sent.  She was entitled  to a 
dedicated service  from SJP and to its attention  to the reversion processes, but that 
should be balanced with the dedicated  attention and service it provided  to each one 
of the rest of its clients  and with the finite nature of working time and resources. In 
this context and with due weight given  to available evidence of engagement between  
the parties, I am not persuaded  that Miss B was ignored or marginalised.  I appreciate 
that this finding will not erase the feelings  (of being treated in such manner) she had 
during the relevant times, but I consider that the compensation she has received for 
trouble and upset  caters for that too.
It is beyond this services remit to consider (or make) punitive awards based on a 
firms alleged breach  of the CRA  or of its regulatory obligations. In broad terms, our 
approach is to address matters that have gone  wrong for a complainant  and where 
the balance of evidence shows that a firm is responsible for such matters  we 
consider the financial loss to the complainant and/or compensation to the 
complainant for any trouble and upset  caused  by those matters. This, as presented  
above, is the approach that has been taken in Miss Bs case.
I am not satisfied that available evidence establishes the claim  for lost opportunity 
that Miss B has made. The portfolio has been  put into a position that presently 
reflects what it would be had there been  no switch on the switch  date  the 
implication being that all inherent  characteristics of the portfolio and its components 
have been subject to this treatment.  On this basis, there does  not appear to be 
ground to claim loss of something  the portfolio  would have gained  or delivered, but 
for the switch and the events (and delays) thereafter. The corrections to date have 
sought to nullify   and, I consider, have nullified  the switch and subsequent events 
and delays. In terms of a loss of opportunity to transact in the portfolio, I have not 
seen evidence that persuades me of this. At all times, Miss B maintained her pursuit 
for the portfolio to be returned to its pre-switch state.  If she wanted something  
different  for example,  to pursue particular transaction  opportunities during  the 
reversion processes  SJP does not appear  to have been instructed on this and/or 
instructed to adapt the reversion processes for such a reason.
I am also not persuaded by her claim that SJPs  service  fees/charges should be 
called into question   and, perhaps, refunded. The matters  of the errors it committed  
and compensation  to Miss B for the trouble and upset they caused her are distinct.  
They have been addressed above.  In order to justify a claim for a refund of service  
fees evidence  of an absence of service  or of a significant service  failure  is required.  
Neither exists in Miss Bs case. Indeed,  and as I noted above,  SJP showed goodwill 
in deciding to apply a reversion process that, at the time, it did not have to apply.  
That was conduct arguably above  and beyond the service  it owed Miss B at the time. 
The problems that followed thereafter  are of course unfortunate and SJP should be, 
and has been,  held responsible for that. However, that does  not establish a case for 
a refund of service  fees/charges. 
Ref: DRN76092948This services approach is that it does  not normally address matters of investment 
performance in isolation. I note Miss Bs claim about the IDBs underperformance, 
but I have not seen  evidence to warrant departure from the service approach.
Conclusion
I acknowledge, again, Miss Bs stressful and protracted experience in this matter.  The 
treatment of her complaint  above is aimed  at providing closure to our consideration of it, 
after the point  at which all parties (the parties to the complaint  and the lead adjudicator) 
appear to have exhausted their best resolution  efforts. 
I appreciate that Miss B appears to retain a need for verification(s), beyond  what  has been 
investigated (and verified) in the course of our handling of the complaint.  I have recognised 
that it is within her discretion to pursue that independently if she wishes  to. I should also note 
that, at times, the nature of her pursuit  appears  to have leaned towards variation, in terms of 
retaining some gains made in the Defensive  portfolio  which went/goes  against the idea of 
the full reversion. Nevertheless, I am satisfied that the complaint has been  addressed  as it 
should have been addressed and as it was submitted. Miss Bs complaint form clearly states 
her desire to have  the portfolio returned  to a position  as though  the switch never happened  
that is, a full reversion.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Miss Bs complaint is upheld but it is upheld  in the context of 
my findings  that St Jamess Place UK plc has already corrected her portfolio and has already 
resolved her claim for trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7609294