K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Mrs S took out the store  card 
in person in store.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited (FICL). I cant consider this complaint against the seller of the policy directly  as the 
third party has explained in its final response  to Mrs S. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  was regulated  by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities,  or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale and has issued a final response detailing  why it does not agree this 
complaint should  be upheld.  To keep things  simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, 
rather than any other  business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs S says she was told her application  for credit would be more likely to be approved if 
she took out the PPI. FICL has said it would  have made clear that the PPI was optional.  
Obviously I wasnt present during the sale of this policy so I cant  be sure of what  was 
said at the time. Instead Ive had to think carefully about what  is more likely to have  
happened given  the evidence that is available.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that Mrs S completed when she took out the 
card. This includes a separate  section relating to PPI which asked her to tick if she 
wanted the cover. This part of the form has been ticked, and theres  nothing  on the form 
to suggest that the PPI would have  any impact on whether Mrs Ss application for credit  
was approved. Mrs S has then signed  at the bottom of the application form to show  she 
agrees with what it says,  so I think its likely  that the information on the form reflects  what  
she wanted at the time. 
So with what  Ive seen,  I think its more likely than not that FICL made it clear that Mrs S 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
FICL  has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs S and I think thats likely to be right.  
So it didnt have  to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need to make sure it 
gave Mrs S clear enough information about  the policy to enable him to decide for herself 
if she should take the policy.
Ref: DRN75563952Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But even if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information, I dont think 
it would  have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say 
this because Mrs S was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected  by any of the main 
limitations to the cover, such  as having  unusual working arrangements  or an existing 
medical condition.
Mrs S says she was entitled  to some sick pay. She also says she couldve relied on her 
partner to help make her repayments. But the PPI would  have  paid out until she was 
able to return to work,  or until the outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came 
first. And the policy would  cover  the same term if she was to lose her job. And while I 
dont doubt that Mrs Ss partner  would have wanted to help if they could, I dont think 
their help could  be guaranteed. So I think she couldve found the policy  useful. And dont 
think clearer information wouldve  affected  her decision to take the PPI. Overall, when 
taking into account everything Ive seen and been  told, I dont think Mrs S has lost out as 
a result of anything FICL  may have  done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7556395