K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about his home  insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. He is unhappy  
because it declined a claim he made  to it after a water leak occurred at his home in 
March 2018.
background
Back in 2015  Mr Bs home suffered  a water leak. A tank or pipe burst in the loft. The property  
was damaged quite  significantly and AXA accepted a claim under the policy for buildings 
and contents.  But a dispute  then arose  about the extent of the settlement AXA was prepared 
to pay for the building repairs.  AXA felt work  to the value of just over £8,000 was necessary. 
Mr B felt much more  extensive work  was required  (perhaps costing as much  as £200,000). 
AXA noted some  evidence Mr B provided  regarding the need for work in addition to what  it 
had found necessary and said it would investigate the settlement further.  It said to do that it 
would need to inspect the property. Mr B was unhappy about this and complained  to us.
My ombudsman colleague considered Mr Bs complaint in February 2017. He didnt uphold  
it. He found that AXAs  request to carry out a further inspection  to try and resolve  the cost 
and necessary work issue was fair. 
Following that decision  AXA resumed attempts to progress the claim. In an email in 
April 2017 it explained  again to Mr B why it was necessary  for it to inspect the damage.  Mr B 
wouldnt agree  to AXA carrying out any further  investigations and the claim fell into 
abeyance. 
In March 2018 Mr B contacted AXA as the house  had suffered further damage following 
multiple leaks occurring  following  an instance of pipes freezing and thawing. AXA sent a loss 
adjuster to the property and a damp specialist. It was noted  that the leak this time hadnt 
come from the loft but the adjuster also noted that Mr B hadnt  carried  out any repairs  since 
the incident in 2015 and at some  point, given the state of the property,  he had moved out of 
the main house,  turning off the heating. 
AXA felt Mr B hadnt maintained the property  or taken action to mitigate  the chance of loss 
occurring. It declined the claim. Mr B complained to us. Our investigator asked AXA for some  
further details  and to explain its view on the contents  Mr B had told us had been damaged 
during the second claim. 
AXA said it simply wasnt possible to say there had been any loss to the buildings  as a result  
of the 2018 leak. Regarding the contents  it felt Mr B had courted a risk in placing them in the 
already water damaged property (when  they came  out of storage), especially as he had 
moved out and turned  the heating off. 
Our investigator, having  noted that Mr B was still unhappy about the outcome of the first 
claim, explained that we couldnt  change the decision previously  made. But she noted that 
AXA hadnt  had chance to carry out the inspection  our ombudsman had found was fair and 
felt it hadnt been shown  what  loss had occurred from the second leak that wasnt  already 
present from the first. She felt Mr B had prejudiced AXAs position and that if he hadnt done 
so the second leak would  likely have been prevented. She didnt think  it would be fair to 
make AXA settle anything for either  the buildings or contents  claim.  
Ref: DRN73160662Mr B said he had been unable to let AXA back into his home as its failures had caused him 
to lose trust in it. He said it wasnt fair for it to keep taking premiums  whilst declining his 
claims. He hadnt  been able to afford repairs but that shouldnt prevent  him from being able 
to bring another claim following the further leak. 
Our investigator confirmed that AXA had tried to make payment  against the first claim and 
that it had tried to investigate it further.  She ensured  that AXA then made the (first) claim 
payment to Mr B. She also arranged with AXA for it to waive some cancellation charges 
issued against  Mr B when  he had stopped paying his premium. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B is in an awful situation.  But Im not persuaded  it is one of AXAs  making. 
As our investigator explained, we cant consider or question the findings of the previous 
decision. But Mr Bs refusal  to allow AXA to inspect, and his reluctance  or inability to take 
any other action regarding that claim and damage, does impact  the present situation. 
The policy,  as AXA has said does require Mr B to take all reasonable precautions  to avoid 
loss and to maintain the property. Whilst Mr B wouldnt let AXA inspect, and despite this 
service having given Mr B a decision which  said that request  by AXA was fair, Mr B didnt 
carry out any repairs. The property  was damaged, suffering from a mould  attack and the 
floors were  rotting.  So Mr B decided to switch off the heating, move out of the property, 
leaving it as it was and live in the garage. 
I know Mr B felt he was in an untenable situation. But doing  nothing to further the claim or 
resolve the damage didnt equate to him taking  reasonable precautions  to avoid  a further 
loss. And leaving the main house  with no heating was always  going to cause further 
problems and at the very least was a risky thing to do particularly during the period of 
extreme weather the whole country suffered from in February and March 2018.
AXAs experts felt the pipes had frozen  due to the lack of heating;  that if the heating had 
been on, the 2018 leak wouldnt have occurred. Ive no reason to doubt what  they say in this 
respect; they are the experts and common sense tells me what  they say is right.  Therefore, 
whilst it really isnt clear,  given the unresolved issues at the heart of AXAs desire  to inspect 
the property, whether  there was any further damage caused  in 2018, the matter would be 
moot if Mr B had acted reasonably to avoid further  loss. And that applies equally in respect 
of the contents  that were damaged in 2018.  
I know Mr B feels he has been paying  policy premiums for nothing. It is unusual for an 
insurer to allow a policy to continue being  renewed  when major  repairs are known to be 
outstanding. However,  the policy was still in place and, if Mr B had suffered a loss that was 
separate to the water  damage,  and AXA was happy  the loss was covered by the policy,  then 
it would  likely have paid a claim. It was never the case, as Mr B has suggested  at times, that 
AXA declined his first claim  rather the parties  couldnt reach  agreement  as to what the 
insured damage  was that had occurred  or what settlement was fairly  due for it. And the 
Ref: DRN73160663situation that resulted from that unresolved dispute  is what  caused the second claim to be 
declined. 
Ultimately it is always up to the policyholder to evidence theyve had a loss. But an insurer  is 
also entitled to carry out reasonable investigations.  Sometimes that means that claims  dont 
get paid, or the policyholder doesnt  receive all the money they think  theyre entailed to. That 
doesnt mean the policy as a whole is worthless;  its just the nature of a risk-based policy 
that responds only to damage caused  by certain  events.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7316066