K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited has  declined  his claim for the theft 
of his car.
Background
Mr B made a claim to Admiral under his motor insurance policy  for the theft of his car, after 
he reported it was stolen from outside  a relatives  house.
Admiral instructed investigators  to investigate Mr Bs claim, and ultimately declined it. It said 
Mr B hadnt  proven hed suffered a loss covered by his policy.
Admirals concerns involved the keys Mr B provided,  the proof of ownership  of the car, and 
inconsistencies in the version  of events surrounding  the theft provided by Mr B and his 
brother who was with Mr B when he last said he used his car.
Admiral said Mr B provided two keys for the car, one wasnt  programmed to the car, and the 
other showed it was last used with the car on 2 September 2017. It said the registration 
document (V5) showed Mr B became  the registered keeper of the car two days  later , on 
4 September 2017.
Mr B said hed had some  work done on the car  hed had the battery and the alternator 
changed  and thinks this might have reset the timer on the car.
Admiral also had concerns with how Mr B came to be in possession  of the car. Mr B said he 
was given the car from a friend  to settle  a debt. But he couldnt recall what  this debt was for, 
nor did he have the contact detail of the person whom he says owed him the debt.
Admiral also said the version of events provided  by Mr B and his brother werent  the same. 
Mr Bs brother  later changed his version of events.  Mr B explained his brother was going  
through a stressful time, and he doesnt think this difference  in the version  of events should 
make any difference  to Admirals decision to pay his claim or not.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld.  She 
thought Admiral had acted fairly  by not paying  the claim, because  she thought its concerns 
surrounding what happened were reasonable.
Unhappy, Mr B asked for an ombudsmans  decision  as he thought hed answered Admirals 
concerns and so thinks it should pay his claim.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Admiral has a duty to not unreasonably decline a claim. But before that, the burden of proof 
lies with Mr B. This mean its for Mr B to show hes suffered a loss, as hes described  it, 
thats covered  by his policy. Admiral has said in this case, Mr B hasnt done that. And Im 
satisfied that decision  is reasonable.
Ref: DRN72471972Admiral instructed investigators  to look into Mr Bs claim. And in interviews with him and his 
brother, there were inconsistencies  with where the car was parked and who last used the 
car. Im aware Mr Bs brother called later to change his version  of events, but its reasonable 
Admiral rely on his first testimony.
Mr B provided two keys which he says are the only two keys for the car he had. One of these 
keys doesnt show as having ever been  used with the car. The other shows it was used in 
2017, two days  before Mr B became the registered keeper according to the V5.
To explain this, Mr B has provided receipts showing that he had the alternator and the 
battery changed. Hes said this might have  reset  the timer on the cars internal  computer  
(ECU). But hes not provided any expert evidence of this. Admirals  engineers  have said 
changing the battery and the alternator wouldnt reset the ECU.  And if the ECU was reset,  
the engineer has said the car would  most  likely need to go back to the manufacturer  to be 
able to be used  with the keys again.  Taking both sides  into consideration, Im more 
persuaded by Admirals  engineers.
Admiral also has concerns about  Mr Bs ownership of the car. Mr Bs provided the V5 
document showing him as the registered keeper since  4 September  2017.  Admiral said the 
V5 in itself isnt proof of ownership, and this is true. So, they asked Mr B for more information  
and evidence to support  his claim.
Mr B explained he was given the car from a friend   who Ill call Mr S - who owed  him 
money. Mr B said Mr S owed him about £18,000, and to settle the debt, Mr B accepted the 
car as payment. He said this was money that added up over the years,  but he couldnt  recall 
exactly what the debt was for. Nor did Mr B know Mr Ss contact details.
Its not implausible for Mr B to have  accepted  a car from a friend  to settle any debt. But I 
wouldve expected  him to have Mr Ss contact details, or have been able to explain what the 
debt related to.
Mr B has since provided a letter from Mr S explaining the car was given to settle a debt 
relating to work Mr B carried out on other  cars and money borrowed in times of need. This 
letter also explains  Mr S was aware of issues with one of the keys never  working and that 
the car had a number of electrical faults and issues with the ECU.  Mr S explains in the letter  
that he didnt tell Mr B about these issues as he just wanted to clear his debts  with him.
But Im not persuaded by this letter. Looking at the V5, Mr S wasnt the registered  keeper of 
the car before Mr B was. And the V5 states the car only had one previous owner before Mr B 
 who wasnt Mr S.
Taking into account all the of the above,  I understand  Admirals concerns and think its acting 
fairly when  declining Mr Bs claim as hes not shown hes suffered a loss, as hes described it 
thats covered  by the policy.
Ref: DRN72471973My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7247197