K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank  Plc have debited  his account with £500 for a cash  point 
(ATM) withdrawal when  he says he didnt receive the money. 
background
On 24 December 2018 Mr P says he tried to use an ATM to withdraw  cash  from his TSB 
account to pay his rent. He says he initially requested  £300,  but the machine didnt process 
this. So he then requested £200 which also didnt come out and the machine retained his 
card. 
This was reported to TSB a couple of hours later who then blocked the card.  After  Christmas 
Mr P contacted TSB himself when he noticed  that his account had been debited  with £500 
from an ATM withdrawal  on the 24 December. He explained he never  received the money 
and that his card had been retained. 
TSB initially refunded  the £500  to Mr Ps account  whilst they investigated.  But ultimately they 
concluded that the money had been correctly dispensed and re-debited  his account with that 
amount. Being unhappy with this Mr P brought the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
technical evidence  provided showed that the money  had been  dispensed  and the machine in 
question had balanced with no errors. So she didnt recommend that TSB needed to do 
more.
Mr P still doesnt accept this and so the complaint has come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know Mr P will be disappointed by this so 
Ill explain  why.
In cases like this I must  make my decision based on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened. Mr Ps account differs from the technical evidence  provided by TSB. The ATM 
recorded just one withdrawal using Mr Ps card for £500, not two attempted  withdrawals at 
£300 and £200 as he describes. I think its most likely that had Mr P requested  £300 and 
£200, then the systems would have recorded this. I find the evidence recorded by the ATM 
and TSBs  systems to be more persuasive.  This shows  that the machine balanced when 
next checked following the withdrawal.  It also showed that the purge box was empty  
meaning no notes  had fallen into the machine. 
Mr P thinks  that had CCTV evidence been  sought this would have supported his version of 
events. Ive thought  about  this but I dont think that CCTV  (even if it were available)  would 
have provided  conclusive  evidence. It likely would have  shown  Mr P stood at the ATM 
(something which no-one disputes) but would have been unlikely to have shown whether or 
not cash was dispensed  and if so how much. I think the log from the ATM machine would 
always have been  more reliable evidence of that. And generally, I wouldnt expect TSB to be 
responsible for gathering CCTV evidence from an ATM they dont own in any case. 
Ref: DRN72124752From the evidence Ive seen the money  was initially refunded to Mr P and then re-debited  
following TSBs investigation. This is what Id expect to happen. And a new card was 
provided without  any unreasonable delay. So I dont think TSB failed in the service they 
delivered when  dealing with Mr P and his complaint. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that Mr P didnt make  and receive the 
£500 withdrawal,  so I think its fair for TSB to hold him liable for that amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7212475