K821x#15complaint
Ms B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect  a store card. 
The store card was originally taken out in a department store  in 2003, the PPI was sold over 
the phone  in 2002, but FICL has taken responsibility  for the sale of PPI, and for this 
complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms B took out in 2003.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint because I dont think  FICL  gave Ms B clear  enough 
information about the PPI. I say this because  Ms B has a pre-existing medical  condition  
which wouldnt have been covered  by the policy. So she couldnt  claim on the policy for 
everything she expected to be able to. And I dont think  that Ms B wouldnt have wanted the 
policy if FICL had given her enough  information about the restrictions on the PPI. So, I think 
Ms B has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.  
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it has said about Ms Bs condition  
usually being  a manageable condition, and may never have affected her. But I dont think  
this matters  Ms Bs condition may not have always been able to be controlled by 
medication  and it may have also had an impact on her day to day life. So I still think  I 
should uphold  the complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Ms B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN77101942If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7710194