K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes their agents.
background
In August  2018,  Mr Ms car suffered damage  after it was vandalised  so he claimed on his 
policy. RSA initially said the car was a total loss as it was uneconomical to repair.  Thats 
because the cost of repairing the car was higher  than what  it was worth. But Mr M wanted to 
keep his car and for it to be repaired.  Around 7 September 2018, RSA sent Mr M a text 
message saying his car was repairable and that they would be repairing it. But later RSA 
again told Mr B his car was beyond economical repair.
I understand that after RSA first told Mr M that his car wasnt  economical to repair, he had an 
offer from a friend to repair his car for £200.  He said that as RSA werent going to repair his 
car he accepted  his friends offer. But when RSA told him in September  that they were going 
to repair  his car, he cancelled his friends  offer, which wasnt  available  again.  So, when RSA 
again said the car was uneconomical to repair, and because his friends  offer was no longer 
available, he got a quote from a garage that was for almost £1,900 to do the repairs.
Mr M complained. RSA apologised for their misleading information and said the text 
message was an error. RSA paid Mr M £100 compensation for their error. RSA and Mr M 
agreed on a cash in lieu settlement of £650. RSA paid that after taking account of the £100 
policy excess. The car wasnt declared a total loss so that Mr M could repair  it.
Mr M thinks RSA should pay him more  to compensate him for the lost opportunity of having 
the repair done for £200. But RSA disagreed. Mr M didn't think  that was fair so he brought 
his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that RSA had dealt with 
Mr M fairly. As Mr M didnt  agree with our investigator,  his complaint has been  passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr M, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of detailed  points  and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if RSA have dealt with Mr M in a fair and reasonable way.
Because Mr Ms car was uneconomical to repair, under  the policy RSA could have paid him 
the pre-incident  market value of the car, which I understand was just over £800.  Had RSA 
done that and deducted the £100  policy excess, Mr M would have received slightly  more 
than the £650 cash in lieu amount they paid him. Had RSA deemed the car a total loss they 
would have kept the car. But as Mr M wanted to keep his car, RSA didnt treat it as a total 
loss but instead paid Mr M a cash in lieu amount to enable him to repair  it.
Its unfortunate that RSA mistakenly sent Mr M a text saying they would repair his car. Thats 
because Mr M said he turned down his friends once only offer to repair the car for £200. 
Ref: DRN76628162And the quote  Mr M later got was for almost £1,900. Although  over £800 of that was the cost 
of paint and parts. So, I assume Mr Ms friends offer was only for labour. Its not clear  to me 
why the friends  offer wasnt available after RSA said they wouldnt  repair  the car.
But RSA accepted their mistake and paid £100  compensation to Mr M, which he clearly felt 
didnt go far enough.  But I think RSA dealt  with Mr M fairly.  Thats  because  hes in a better 
position now than he would have been in had RSA deemed the car a total loss. He has been  
paid an amount that is similar to the pre-incident market value he would have got had it been 
a total loss. And he has kept his car, which is what he wanted.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662816