K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Nationwide Building  Society  (trading as Staffordshire Building Society) 
mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy with a mortgage. For 
ease of reference Ill just refer to the business  as Nationwide in the rest of this 
decision.
background
Mr H took out a mortgage through the Nationwide in 2000 and with it a monthly  premium  
PPI policy. The policy was sold to Mr H at a meeting. The policy  gave Mr H accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  It cost £10.50 per month and covered his monthly 
mortgage repayment of £400. The policy was free for the first six months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed. He said he was misled into 
believing that taking PPI would speed  up and improve his chances of his mortgage 
application being successful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear  that PPI was optional and Mr H had to agree to take it. 
Nationwide no longer has a copy of Mr Hs paperwork  from the time of sale. But, based 
on what hes said, I think he probably  did agree to take out PPI, although he says he 
was misled into doing so.
Mr H said the meeting was rushed and there was no real discussion about  whether PPI 
was right for him. As Nationwide  wasnt recommending  the policy  to Mr H it didnt need 
to consider the suitability of the policy for his needs.  But, it did have  to give him enough  
clear information about PPI, so that he could  decide if he wanted  to buy it. 
Ive been told that PPI was free for the first six months, this may have acted as an 
incentive for Mr H to agree to take out the policy. Based on what  Mr Hs told me about 
the meeting as he recalls it, I dont have strong enough evidence  to fairly conclude  that 
Nationwide actively misled him into taking out the PPI. So, I cant  fairly uphold his 
complaint for this reason.
Its possible that Nationwide couldve given Mr H clearer  information,  so Ive looked  to see 
whether the policy  mightve been  inappropriate for him for any reason, and whether better 
information may have  led him to make a different choice and not take PPI. I cant  see that 
the policy was inappropriate  for Mr H or that hes lost out because of anything Nationwide 
did wrong. I say this because:
 Mr H was eligible for the PPI  that is, he qualified for insurance cover;
Ref: DRN76014312 he wasnt affected by the main  limitations  or exclusions  in the policy  so I dont think 
having better information about  these things wouldve  changed his decision  to take 
out the policy. He couldve  benefitted from everything the policy offered;
 Mr H said he wouldve  got some sick pay through his work, not less than 6 months  
worth of pay. The policy wouldve paid out on top of this, and for up to 12 months per 
successful claim,  so possibly for longer  than his work benefits  wouldve covered him 
for. The PPI policy wouldve allowed Mr H to use his work benefits  to meet  his other  
household expenses at what mightve been a difficult time for him financially if he 
wasnt working. It wouldve also paid out if he lost his job.
Mr H said he had some equity in a property and around £6,000  to £10,000 in 
savings. However, I cant see that these  other  resources made the policy 
inappropriate. PPI wouldve allowed him to retain  these savings and use them, if 
necessary, to meet other  household expenditure if he wasnt working. He couldve 
made repeated  claims on the PPI policy offering him long term protection for his 
home.
Mr H said he had other forms of cover; death  in service cover, private  healthcare and 
life cover. But, I cant see that these provided  him with duplicate cover  so that PPI 
was surplus to his needs..
 I dont know what Mr H was told about the costs  of the policy.  It was free for the first 
6 months and a monthly premium was payable after that at £10.50 per month. I cant  
see that the policy was unaffordable. He couldve cancelled the policy  at any time 
without losing out financially. 
Ive taken  into account everything that Mr H has said, but this doesnt  change my view. 
I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
 Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN76014313my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7601431