K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) didn't cancel his life 
policy after he took out a new policy.
background
In October  2015 Mr H took out a flexible protection plan providing life and critical illness  
cover with LV. The application was made through his independent  financial adviser (IFA) 
whod recommended he take this policy out to replace an existing life and critical  illness 
policy. The previous policy  was also taken out with LV in 2013 and through the same IFA.
Mr H found out earlier  this year that the first policy was never cancelled and that hed been 
paying for two policies.  So he complained to LV.
LV explained  that any issue about  the first policy not being cancelled  would be between      
Mr H and his IFA. So it referred the complaint to his IFA.
Mr H was unhappy with LVs response  and brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that shed only expect  LV 
to cancel a policy if it had received specific instructions to do so by Mr H or his IFA. She also 
explained that there was no obligation for LV to inform him to cancel any policy and that it 
wasnt to know that he didnt want an increased amount of life or critical illness  cover. 
Mr H remains  unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I understand this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr H, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Its important to clarify that LV provided no advice to Mr H regarding  either  of his policies  
this would have  been given to him by his IFA. As such, LV was not responsible for ensuring 
that the policies were  suitable for him and any instruction to cancel the first policy  would 
have needed to have come from Mr H or his IFA.
The conditions for the first policy say that Mr H could cancel it at any time by letting LV know. 
LV has explained  that neither Mr H nor his IFA contacted LV to ask for the first policy  to be 
cancelled. So I understand why it remained in place.
Ive seen a copy  of the second policy application and I note that that LV did ask whether     
Mr H had existing cover with it and whether this was going to continue. While I understand 
that Mr Hs IFA did answer no to it continuing, there  was no instruction to LV to cancel the 
policy. 
The conditions for the first policy also say when LV may cancel the policy without Mr Hs 
instructions. However,  having two policies running  simultaneously isnt a reason for LV to 
cancel a policy. And I wouldnt expect it to be. This is because its possible that a customer  
may want to increase  their protection through taking out additional cover.  After  all, LV would 
have paid out had a successful claim been made on both policies.
Ref: DRN75513302So while I dont doubt that Mr Hs intention was to have  the second  policy  replace the first, I 
dont think LV is responsible for the first policy not being cancelled. As Ive explained, in the 
absence of an instruction  to do so from Mr H or his IFA, LV had no obligation to cancel the 
first policy and so I dont think it has treated him unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
John Norton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7551330