K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that TSB Bank plc has failed to report accurate information  about 
their mortgage account to credit reference agencies.
background
On checking their credit records with one provider earlier this year,  Mr and Mrs C discovered 
that the information reported by TSB about their mortgage account  wasnt  up-to-date. It 
seemed that the account balance and payment history  hadnt been updated since April.
Concerned at the impact this was having on their credit score   and that this might be giving 
the impression  they werent paying  their mortgage  Mr and Mrs C complained to TSB.  And 
when they didnt get a response, they referred  the matter to us.
TSB told us that following  problems with their IT systems upgrade earlier in the year,  it 
hadnt been sharing information with credit  reference agencies. But while  the complaint was 
with us, it said that the problem had been fixed  so it would be updating its customers 
credit records in due course. It was of the view that thered been no detrimental effect on its 
customers, including Mr and Mrs C, in the meantime.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. He agreed that TSB had fallen 
short of its obligation  to report accurate information about the mortgage to credit reference 
agencies. And he appreciated why that wouldve  caused Mr and Mrs C concern. But as TSB 
was now rectifying that, he didnt  think it needed to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators  assessment. They  raised a number of points, 
but in summary  they were particularly unhappy that:
TSB hadnt  yet brought their credit records up-to-date  or added a notice of correction to 
explain the errors;
The out of date information on their credit records wrongly gave the impression that they 
werent paying their mortgage on time and in full;
That information would prejudice  their ability to borrow money, amounted  to serious  libel 
and had a wider impact  on their reputation  and how they were  viewed by any 
organisation reviewing  their credit records; and
The situation was widespread and wouldve been  having  an impact  on all of TSBs 
mortgage customers. 
So Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman  to review their complaint, and it was passed to 
me to decide. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint last month,  setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. I said:
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that TSB has failed to keep the information 
showing on Mr and Mrs Cs credit records up-to-date. The bank has a responsibility  to 
Ref: DRN74340592ensure that such information is accurate, and evidently thats not been  the case  
Mr and Mrs C have maintained their monthly  mortgage payments in full and on time, 
which hasnt been  displayed for a number of months. And the mortgage balance  hasnt 
been updated, so to anyone viewing Mr and Mrs Cs credit  records it appears they owe 
more than is actually  outstanding on their mortgage.
It follows that I think TSB needs to ensure that the information it reports  about Mr and 
Mrs Cs mortgage account to the credit reference agencies is correct.  It has told us 
previously that the problem had been  corrected. But since then, Mr and Mrs C have 
sent us a copy of their credit record which shows thats not the case. So for the 
avoidance of any doubt, I intend to require TSB to instruct  the credit  reference 
agencies to report up-to-date information about  Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs C have previously  asked that TSB also add a notice of 
correction to their credit  records. But once the correct information is displayed,  thered 
be no need for such a notice. So I dont  intend to require the bank to add one.
Ive also thought about the impact this matter has had on Mr and Mrs C. I cant  see that 
theyve lost out financially as a direct  result of this issue.  While theyve pointed out that the 
absence of information on their credit  records couldve  impacted their ability to borrow  
money  which  I agree  is possible   theyve not told us that theyve such  an application, or 
of any other  transactions or commitments  that may have been  affected. So I dont think  
theres any financial loss that TSB need to compensate Mr and Mrs C for.
I do, however,  think that Mr and Mrs C have been  caused some unnecessary trouble 
and upset by this issue. They clearly take great  interest in  and care for  their credit 
rating. They check it regularly and its important to them  that its accurate. And as they 
say, the absence of up-to-date information could  give an adverse impression of them to 
anyone viewing their credit records. While it would be beyond my remit to make a finding  
as to whether  that amounts to libel, I can understand their concern about  possible 
damage to their reputation. And theyve been  put to some trouble in trying  to rectify the 
issue  with the information  seemingly  still not accurate and up-to-date  even now.
So in addition to rectifying the credit records themselves, Im also intending to require  
TSB to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £100.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about the impact on TSBs wider customer  base, but 
we only deal with individual  complaints  so weve only looked  at whats  happened to 
Mr and Mrs C. And while Ive also noted  their request that I share  my decision with a 
particular Member of Parliament, I dont think that would be appropriate. I would reiterate, 
though, that my final decision  will be published online and so be publically available. 
TSB didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision. Mr and Mrs C did, saying in summary that:
Despite our involvement, the mortgage balance being reported on some  of their credit  
records was still incorrect (being higher than it ought to be). 
TSB had continued to contact them both, separately, by post and phone  about the 
matter every  three to four weeks.  And it was unaware  that the matter was being  
investigated by our service.
Ref: DRN74340593TSBs actions amounted to libel, and werent  just a matter  of maladministration.  So they 
asked that I consider  the legal implications  of this, along with an appropriate remedy.
They might need to borrow funds in the future and the inaccurate information being  
reported by TSB could  prejudice their ability to do so.
They had no faith in TSBs ability to correct things, not least because of similar problems  
in accessing their accounts  online. So they asked  that we keep the complaint  open  until 
the glitch  is fixed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including all of Mr and Mrs Cs further 
comments. I fully appreciate their strength of feeling  over this matter,  but I still think the 
settlement I proposed  in my provisional decision remains a fair way to put things right.  Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, its disappointing to note that despite our involvement and the amount of time thats 
passed, incorrect information about  Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account remains on some of 
their credit records.  Its also regrettable that, based on what Mr and Mrs C have told us, the 
bank continues to contact them so regularly about  it  without being able to offer a solution.  
This seems to be causing unnecessary hassle  to Mr and Mrs C.
But I set out in my provisional decision that I intended to require TSB to take appropriate 
steps to rectify this  by providing  the relevant agencies with the necessary information. This 
final decision, if accepted by Mr and Mrs C, will be legally binding  on the bank and therefore 
require it to do as instructed.  This should,  therefore, take care of the issue.  
As a result, I dont think theres any need for us to keep the complaint  open as Mr and Mrs C 
have asked. That wouldnt benefit  either  party  in fact, it seems most likely  to cause further 
delay and confusion.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs C have said about the possibility  of applying for finance and 
the impact this issue may have on them. But this all seems very hypothetical  at this stage  
theyve not said they actually need or intend  to do so. So I dont think their points here 
change anything. If they were to apply for finance down the line, and encounter  problems as 
a result of ongoing issues  with this information  on their credit  record,  then they could raise a 
further complaint  about that at the time. Though should they choose to accept my final 
decision, I wouldnt expect such a situation  to occur for the reasons Ive explained above.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs C would like me to make a finding as to whether the 
erroneous information  on their credit records amounts  to libel. But I said in my provisional 
decision that such a decision  would be beyond my remit, and thats still the case.  Such 
allegations would be more appropriately  considered by a court.  So, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, for their concerns about  their reputation (as good  payers) and for the 
additional trouble this matter has put them to, I still think £100  represents fair compensation.
Ref: DRN74340594my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require TSB Bank  plc to:
Instruct  the credit reference  agencies  with the appropriate information to ensure 
reporting of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  account is up-to-date;  and
Pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7434059