K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about her contents insurer, Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited, 
because it has cancelled  her policy retrospectively  to the date she made a claim for theft and 
refused to deal with the claim, all on the grounds  that Mrs B hasnt presented  the claim 
honestly.
background
Mrs B reported a claim to Lloyds on 12 June 2018. Lloyds investigated the claim, spoke to 
Mrs B and formally  interviewed her. Mrs B said shed come home late on the night of the 
theft, having picked her son up from the pub, and found her home had been broken into. 
She said the police  came  and witnessed  that the back  door was open,  with the locking 
mechanism stuck in the locked position,  and that they saw damage to the door.  Mrs B said 
the policeman also helped her son manipulate the lock so the door could be closed.
Lloyds made  enquiries regarding  this report,  and some other  issues that had come  to light 
during its investigation so far. Particularly it had noted that there were no signs of damage  to 
the door or frame and that the policy only covered theft where force  and violence was used 
to gain entry  to or exit from the property.
Lloyds spoke to the policeman who had attended  Mrs Bs home on the night of the theft. 
Amongst other things he said the door was open  but the lock wasnt stuck in the locked 
position. Nor did he or his colleague see any damage or assist  with any attempt  at repair. 
Lloyds told Mrs B it had concerns with her claim; including the above  mentioned discrepancy 
between her account of the aftermath of the incident  and the detail provided by the police. It 
gave Mrs B a chance to alleviate  all its concerns by providing explanations and/or evidence. 
Mrs B replied but Lloyds  felt she had presented her claim dishonestly. 
Lloyds final position  on the matter was that Mrs B had provided it with false  information and 
that, as a result, she had breached the fraud  condition of the policy. It said it was cancelling 
the cover  back to the day Mrs B had made the claim  12 June 2018  and that it wouldnt 
consider the claim  further.  
Mrs B was unhappy and complained to us. She said the police had made a mistake when 
taking details from her but had added in the correct information afterwards.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that he wasnt  assessing  whether 
Mrs B had told the truth or not but rather whether Lloyds  had made  a fair decision given the 
information available to it. He felt it had.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Mrs B, Im not persuaded to find differently to our investigator.
Lloyds has raised  a number of issues  as reason for the action it has taken. Ive only referred  
to the issue regarding the door and lock above. I think, as Ive explained below, that Lloyds 
concerns in respect of this issue are fair and that these alone  would have  given it grounds  to 
Ref: DRN70272862act as it has done. This means I dont need  to take account of or consider  the other issues  
and concerns raised, so I havent  done.   
Lloyds has accused  Mrs B of committing fraud. That means  it thinks  she has provided 
misleading information with a view to gaining  a benefit from the policy  which she otherwise 
wouldnt be entitled to. 
In this case the policy only covers theft if entry to or exit from the property is gained  by 
forcible and violent means. Therefore,  if a theft occurs and there  is no sign of forcible  and 
violent entry or exit, then the claim for theft fails and the policyholder isnt entitled  to any 
benefit under the policy. 
Mrs B reported that the door had signs of being  forced. Lloyds investigator didnt note any 
signs of this, meaning the claim would likely fail. But Mrs B had said that the police 
witnessed the damage and that they assisted her in securing the door. A statement like that, 
on the face of it, adds  validity and strength to the report  Mrs B made. Had Lloyds taken that 
account at face value,  and notwithstanding  the other  issues  it had, it would likely have 
influenced its decision as to whether or not to uphold the claim.  
I know Mrs B has said that the police  incorrectly took down the details that she gave them.  
But in reaching its decision on the claim and policy, Lloyds spoke to the policeman that had 
attended Mrs Bs home. The officer went so far as to email  Lloyds  too. The call note Lloyds 
made and the email  both show that the officer, in responding to Lloyds enquiries, recounted 
his recollection of what happened; what he saw and did. He also confirms having checked  
with the colleague who accompanied him. The officer is adamant there was no damage and 
no signs of forced entry  and that neither he nor his colleague assisted with a repair.  
Lloyds doesnt  accept Mrs Bs view that the police took down incorrect  data.  Given  the detail 
Ive seen provided to Lloyds  by the police, I dont think I can reasonably  fault Lloyds for 
drawing this conclusion.  Im satisfied that its reasonable for Lloyds to take the policemans 
account as being the most accurate recollection of events. In the circumstances I think  
Lloyds decision to cancel  Mrs Bs policy on the grounds of fraud, and by association  decline 
her claim, was fair and reasonable. I dont intend to make it review that position.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7027286