K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a loan. Mr and Mrs W say Bank  of Scotland  (BoS), Halifax  at the time, mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs W say they werent told the policy was optional and they were under the 
impression that they had to take it out. But Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement which Mr 
and Mrs W saw and signed.  This included both a yes and no box for PPI - and the yes 
box has been selected. But I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve  known they had the option to say 
no if they didnt  want the policy. Mr and Mrs W signed the agreement to consent  to the 
information contained within it. So based  on everything Ive seen, I think BoS made  it clear  
that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
Mr W (as the insured  party)  and based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover.  And even though Mr W says he was entitled to some  sick pay from his employer 
at the time, they didnt have any other means  of making their repayments once his sick pay 
had run out or if he had been made redundant. Also the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
his sick pay, so these  funds couldve  been  used for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs W 
had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs W say the single  premium  policy wasnt suitable for them.  But the policy they 
took out was a regular  monthly premium  policy which couldve been  cancelled at any time 
without penalty.  And Ive seen that the cost of the policy was clearly set out on their loan 
application. 
Its possible some of the other information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back  some  of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN78900722my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7890072