K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  has dealt with 
her mortgage account. 
background
Mrs S had a mortgage with Halifax which  was originally in the joint names  of Mrs S and her 
mother. I am sorry to note that Mrs Ss mother passed away in February 2018. Mrs S took a 
copy of the death  certificate into a local branch. An arrangement was made  to pay the 
mortgage each  month.  As it was in credit, this meant  that Mrs S only had to pay a small 
amount until the credit  was used, and then the full amount. 
In November 2018 Mrs S started to receive letters and phone calls to say that mortgage 
account was in arrears.  Halifax had no record of the death certificate, or the arrangement  
made in the branch.
Mrs S complained to Halifax.  The bank  explained  that the calls and letters had been  
generated because Mrs Ss payment  date was the 28th of each  month, but shed been 
paying slightly late. Halifax also said that calls were made via an automatic dialler, so it 
wasnt possible for one of its agents to look at the file before calls were made.
Halifax suggested Mrs S could avoid this issue by setting up a direct debit for her mortgage 
repayments. In April 2019 Halifax sent Mrs S a cheque for £100 for continuing to contact her 
after shed complained. In May 2019 Halifax sent Mrs S a further £150, because  shed been 
sent a letter  saying her account was £2.85 in arrears and her property might be 
repossessed.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs handling of the account, Mrs S complained  to us. An investigator 
looked at the complaint, but thought  the compensation  of £250 paid by Halifax  was fair. He 
thought Halifaxs  suggestion to set up a direct debit for the mortgage repayments was 
reasonable and explained  that we had no power to prevent Halifax from using an automated 
system for contacting customers whose mortgage  payments were late. He noted Halifax had 
discovered that a tag needed to be removed from Mrs Ss account  details to prevent the 
automated calls, and that this had now been  done.
In the circumstances, he didnt think Halifax needed to do anything  further.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator. She said that the mortgage came to an end in October 
2019, so there was no point setting up a direct  debit. She was unhappy at the way Halifax  
had dealt with the matter  or that Halifax took reasonable steps to sort the matter  out. Mrs S 
has not said what additional redress she would like, but is unhappy at Halifaxs  complaint-
handling processes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  happened  in rather 
less detail than is set out in the file. But the investigator set out a detailed timeline of events 
in his letter dated 19 August 2019,  a copy of which Mrs S and Halifax have had. In any 
event, whats happened isnt in dispute.  The issue is whether or not Halifax  has done 
enough to put things  right.
Ref: DRN75486792The events complained of are now historic,  because the mortgage account has come to an 
end and has been repaid  in full. Halifax has accepted there were customer  service errors. As 
whats happened isnt disputed, all I need to decide is what Halifax  needs to do to put things 
right. 
Having looked  at what happened, I fully acknowledge that Halifaxs  actions caused Mrs S 
some distress and upset, when she had recently  lost her mother. But Halifaxs system is set 
up to use an automated dialler to call customers where mortgage payments have not been 
made on the due date,  as was the case here.  
I dont have any power to tell Halifax  what  systems it should have in place, and if it chooses 
to use an automated system, thats a matter for its own commercial  judgment. I also dont  
have any power to tell Halifax  how to deal with complaints. 
I note that it took Halifax several weeks to discover that a tag on its system needed to be 
removed so that calls to Mrs S would  cease. Halifax has acknowledged its error  in this 
respect. Halifax also wrote to Mrs Ss mothers  address, which  was the address  of the 
property secured by the mortgage.  Where  payments were being made late and after the 28th 
of each month, this was the trigger for automated letters and calls.  
Account administration is largely an automated  process, and once the trigger  is reached, 
Halifaxs system  will automatically  kick in to send letters and calls. I appreciate these caused 
Mrs S some distress,  but where payments werent made in accordance with the 
requirements of the account, Halifax is entitled  to have  a process in place to deal with this.
Overall, there were  a number of issues which, in isolation  would have caused  minor 
inconvenience. But taken  as a whole, Im satisfied these caused Mrs S some distress  and 
upset. I think Halifax  could have  dealt with things better at an earlier stage. I see that Halifax  
has sent two cheques to Mrs S totalling  £250.  I think a payment of £250 is fair and 
reasonable compensation in all the circumstances, so I dont require Halifax to do anything 
further.
If Mrs S hasnt  yet cashed the cheques, Halifax will need to cancel them and reissue a new 
cheque if Mrs S decides to accept  the compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation totalling £250 offered by Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it to Mrs S to decide  if she wants to 
accept it in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Ref: DRN75486793Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7548679