K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about Interactive Investor  Services Limited, formerly known as TD Direct 
Investing (Europe)  Limited. Hes unhappy with how the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) to another provider was handled.  He says hes lost out on investment growth 
and income as a result  of this.
background
Mr G held a TD SIPP. TD Direct Investing  provided  investment services for the SIPP 
whereas a third party, which Ill refer to as A, provided the SIPP trustee  and administration  
services. 
On 30 May 2017 TD Direct Investing  and A wrote to Mr G explaining that this arrangement  
was coming to an end in December 2017.  They provided him with three  options   to stay 
with TD Direct  Investing, to stay with A or to transfer his SIPP  to another provider. But they 
said that if Mr G didnt  respond or provide the necessary forms for a transfer  by 30 
September 2017, the default  option would be for his SIPP  to be transferred to A.
Subsequent reminder letters were sent to Mr G in June and August 2017.
On 2 October 2017 Mr G received an email  from As TD SIPP administration  team. They  
explained they couldnt proceed with his requested cash transfer out from the TD SIPP  to 
another SIPP provider, which Ill refer to as S, as he was still invested in assets.  They said 
that they would be able to start the transfer once  the assets had been disinvested.  Mr G 
confirmed hed done this the same day and asked whether he had to let them know when 
the funds had cleared. A said he didnt  to update them further and that they would start the 
transfer.
A sent an email on 5 October 2017  to arrange the transfer but it was sent to the wrong  
recipient. This error was realised and corrected on 16 October 2017 when A sent it to TD 
Direct Investing. Their  email of 16 October  2017 highlighted the urgency of processing the 
transfer request.
Mr Gs SIPP  was transferred to A on 20 October 2017.
Mr G emailed A on 11 December 2017 saying  that following a meeting with an advisor hed 
found that his funds  hadnt been transferred to S. He explained that hed sold all of his 
holdings on 2 October 2017  and had been  assured the transfer would be completed.  Mr G 
said that because  of this hed missed  out on dividend income as well being out of the market 
for two months. 
As TD SIPP administration team responded by explaining that his SIPP  funds had been 
transferred to A as they hadnt received a preference form before the deadline  of 30 
September 2017. And so to transfer his funds to S he would have to make  a new transfer  out 
request to A.
Mr G replied by saying  that they had received his transfer request prior to the deadline.  He 
asked for the matter  to be looked  in to further as a formal complaint with the relevant details 
passed to TD Direct Investing.
Ref: DRN77499422On 15 December As TD SIPP administration  team  wrote to Mr G confirming  that TD Direct 
Investing had received  his complaint. They also explained that his TD SIPP was transferred 
on 20 October 2017 but TD Direct Investing didnt pick up his request to transfer  his SIPP  
funds to S until 25 October 2017,  which was after the transfer  to A had already happened.  
They added that it had been agreed for S to request the money  from his SIPP  with A.
Mr G replied on 19 December 2017  as he remained dissatisfied. He said TD Direct Investing 
had known since February 2017  of his intention to transfer and that S had sent the transfer  
request to TD Direct Investing,  via Origo, on 29 September 2017. He said that hed also 
received an email from As Product Team on 16 October 2017 confirming the transfer to 
them wouldnt go ahead.  He complained about the service hed received, the amount of time 
the transfer process had taken and that this issue had caused  him to suffer considerable 
frustration as well as a financial loss due to being out of the market and missing  out on 
dividend income.
Mr Gs cash balance was transferred to S on 5 January  2018.
TD Direct Investing provided a final response  to Mr G on 8 February 2018. They explained 
that although on 2 October 2017  As SIPP administration team had confirmed the transfer  
would be initiated,  they only sent an email to their transfer team on 16 October  2017. This 
wasnt dealt with until 25 October 2017 so unfortunately the transfer of his SIPP cash  
balance was transferred  to A as part of the change to the SIPP  service.  This meant they 
could no longer transfer the cash balance to S. They did however  offer £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the poor service he experienced.
The complaint was brought to our service. Our adjudicator looked  in to it and thought it 
should be upheld.  He explained  that TD Direct Investing received the transfer request on 16 
October 2017 which provided  ample  time for them to have acted  upon  the instructions  prior 
to the transfer  to A on 20 October 2017.  He thought  Mr G should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset  this matter had caused  him and his apparent inability to trade between 
11 December 2017 and 5 January 2018.  The adjudicator  noted  that it would be difficult, 
without the benefit of hindsight, to know what trades Mr G wouldve carried out during this 
time and so in the circumstances he considered £300 was reasonable.
Mr G and TD Direct Investing (Interactive  Investor  Services Limited)  disagreed with the 
adjudicator so the matter has been passed to me to review.
Before I set out my views on this matter  I think it would  be helpful for me to explain that Im 
aware Mr G experienced  service issues leading up to him submitting his transfer request 
when trying to obtain information about  his SIPP from TD Direct Investing.  I understand  this 
matter was settled and TD Direct Investing made a goodwill payment to Mr G in June 2017. 
My decision  therefore will be addressing Mr Gs complaint that he suffered a financial loss as 
a result of his SIPP not being transferred to S after he disinvested his assets to allow  for it to 
happen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the adjudicator and for similar reasons.
Ref: DRN77499423The transfer of Mr Gs SIPP to S involved multiple parties. I will however only be looking at 
the role of TD Direct Investing  in the transfer  process and whether they are responsible for 
the problems Mr G experienced. I wont therefore be commenting  on the actions of the other 
parties.
The letter of 30 May 2017, and subsequent mailings, made it clear that if a response  or the 
necessary forms for a transfer  werent received by 30 September  2017  than the default  
option would  be for the SIPP to be transferred to A. Mr G didnt submit the form but rather 
his transfer request was submitted via Origo on 29 September 2017.
TD Direct Investing has said that all customers were required to complete  and submit  the 
preference form before the deadline. And so had they received this from Mr G then his cash 
balance wouldnt have  been on the list to be transferred to A. While I accept Mr G didnt 
submit the preference form he did make a request  to transfer  his SIPP  before the deadline, 
so I think its reasonable  for him to have expected this to have been acted upon. Ive 
therefore looked at TD Direct Investings involvement in the handling of this request.
TD Direct Investing only became aware  of Mr Gs request to transfer his SIPP cash balance  
to S following  receipt of the email  from A on 16 October 2017. Prior to this all 
correspondence Mr G had about the transfer  in October 2017 was with As TD SIPP  
administration team. And TD Direct Investing has said that work to transfer assets to A was 
in the final stages of completion on 16 October 2017. That said I think  As email made it 
sufficiently clear to TD Direct Investing that the transfer had to be processed urgently. So 
given the transfer to A didnt take place for a further  four working days after this, I think TD 
Direct Investing had sufficient time to intervene and to try and stop it from happening.
The email  wasnt however picked up by TD Direct  Investing until 25 October  2017.  Its 
difficult to say with any certainty whether the transfer  to A couldve been avoided  had TD 
Direct Investing picked  it up sooner. But even if it wasnt possible to prevent, I think  TD 
Direct Investing shouldve at least  contacted  Mr G to make  him aware of what had 
happened. Ive not seen anything to show they did so. 
I understand Mr G only became aware that his funds hadnt been transferred to S when he 
met with his adviser  on 11 December 2017. He then had to make  another transfer request 
for this to be arranged, with the funds being received by S on 5 January 2018. But I think, 
even if TD Direct Investing couldnt  have stopped the transfer  to A on 20 October 2017, had 
they informed  Mr G of this then hed have been able to make the new request sooner  and 
thereby, most likely, ensuring  the funds  were transferred to S by 11 December 2017.
So I consider the lack of action taken by TD Direct Investing ultimately led to Mr G not being  
able to invest his SIPP funds with S between 11 December 2017, when he met his adviser, 
and 5 January  2018, when S received  the funds. Ive therefore looked at what  compensation 
would be fair in the circumstances.   
I appreciate Mr G was led to believe that the transfer  to S would go ahead and so he had no 
reason to check this further. But given he only became aware  that it hadnt happened  when 
he met his adviser  on 11 December 2017, Im not persuaded  he wouldve invested his funds 
before this point.  This is because if hed wanted to invest his funds sooner then he wouldve 
found out that it wasnt with S and raised  the issue at the time. 
I accept however that Mr G wasnt able to invest his funds with S when he met his adviser on 
11 December 2017. Ive carefully considered this issue and while I know  this will come  as a 
Ref: DRN77499424disappointment to Mr G, I cant be sure how he wouldve invested at that time. I know  Mr G 
has said that he had discussed an investment strategy with his adviser but even so, its 
possible that market  changes couldve changed  this at the point of investment. 
Ive also taken in to consideration that Mr G only invested his SIPP funds  on 7 March  2018, 
which is about two months after S received them. So even if I was to accept the basis on 
which Mr G wouldve invested it would also be difficult for me to know,  with any degree of 
confidence, when  this wouldve happened. Im therefore not awarding  Mr G compensation 
for loss of investment growth  or dividend income.
I do however consider  that this matter  caused  Mr G trouble and upset that couldve been 
avoided. And that this led to him not being  able to invest his funds with S between 11 
December 2017  and 5 January 2018. In recognition of this I think  a higher level of 
compensation than the £50 offered is warranted here. Taking  everything in to account I think 
the adjudicators  recommendation  of £300 is reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Interactive Investor  Services  Limited should  pay Mr G £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019..
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7749942