K821x#15complaint
Mr N and Mrs N complain that they were mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when they took out a mortgage  with Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
Mrs N is Mr Ns mother. They both took out a mortgage along with Mr Ns father (Mrs Ns 
partner), Mr N1. At the same time Mr and Mrs N were  sold a PPI policy  which would have 
covered their mortgage repayments for up to a year at a time if either  of them  couldnt work  
due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. Mr N1 wasnt included  in the cover.  He was 
retired, so he wasnt eligible.
Mr and Mrs N say they didnt know theyd been sold the policy.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ns complaint thought  that it should be upheld, 
although not for the reason Mr and Mrs N thought  should be the case.
Santander disagreed with the view, so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Santander gave  Mr and Mrs N a personal  recommendation  to buy the PPI. So Santander 
had a duty to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them.  
The policy had an exclusion for any medical condition for which  Mr and Mrs N had received 
treatment or advice about in the 12 months  preceding the sale.  This wouldnt apply if Mr and 
Mrs N had been symptom-free  and not consulted a doctor or received treatment in the 
preceding 24 months.
Santander had a duty to explain this clearly to Mr and Mrs N. Santander said it would have  
done this, but it has not been able to provide evidence  that it did this. It would have been 
important for Mr and Mrs N to understand this term because both of them  were affected  by it. 
They each had more  than one medical problem which would have  been  excluded from 
cover. And each  of those conditions could  have resulted in extended periods of time off sick 
from work.
I think if Mr and Mrs N had understood the term then they wouldnt have bought  the policy,  
because theyd have  realised it wouldnt have covered them for the reasons theyd  most  
likely need  to take time off work. 
So, on balance, I think Mr and Mrs N lost out as a result of something Santander did wrong.
Ref: DRN74155132putting things right 
Santander should put Mr and Mrs N back in the position they would  have been  in if they 
hadnt bought PPI. So Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs N the amount they paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing how  much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and direct  Santander UK Plc to pay compensation 
as Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7415513