K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) declined his application  for a 
credit card because part of his income comes  from a disability  benefit,  Employment Support
Allowance (ESA). Mr B feels Tesco has discriminated against him because  of something 
connected to a disability.
background
Mr B applied  for a credit  card with Tesco in October 2017. A requirement was for him to 
show he had a minimum income of £5,000  per annum. Mr B is unemployed and receives 
benefits because  he has a disability. At the time of application, Mr B received a monthly 
Personal Independence Payment (PIP) of £222.60 and ESA payments of £404.80 every two 
weeks.
When assessing whether  Mr B met the minimum income requirement, Tesco excluded
Mr Bs ESA income. This was because it didnt consider this to be guaranteed income in line 
with its own lending criteria.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.  He felt Tesco had followed its own policy  and 
that it wasnt for this service to comment on what Tesco should or shouldnt consider.  Mr B 
didnt agree so the matter was passed  to me to review.
my first provisional decision
I explained that Tesco had declined Mr Bs application for a credit card because  it didnt  think 
Mr B satisfied its minimum  income  requirement.  Tesco had excluded Mr Bs ESA income 
when assessing  this. Had this income been  accepted, Mr B would have met Tescos 
minimum income requirement. Mr B felt Tescos action amounted to discrimination because  
of something connected to his disability. This is because  ESA income is paid to him because  
he has a disability.
I acknowledged that Tesco had said it had declined Mr Bs application in line with its own 
lending criteria. I accepted that every business has its own lending criteria and that our 
service couldnt tell a business to whom it should  or shouldnt provide credit. And as a 
general rule, we wouldnt consider complaints which concern a businesss lending  policy  or 
other area of commercial discretion.
I explained that our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. In 
order to decide  that I had to take a number of things into account including the relevant law 
and what I considered to be good industry practice  at the time. This includes the
Equality Act 2010 as Mr B has raised a specific complaint of discrimination. 
I explained that under section 15 of the Equality Act 2010, "discrimination arising  from 
disability" (DAFD) occurs where  both:
A treats B unfavourably because of something arising in consequence of Bs
disability; and
A cannot show that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate 
aim.
Ref: DRN79210172I explained that Tesco hadnt  shared the detail of its lending criteria with us, but it had said it 
prefers to base its lending  decisions on guaranteed income. It doesnt regard ESA income as 
guaranteed income because its a benefit paid by the state and feels this is subject  to 
change or even withdrawal.
On that basis, I felt the impact of Tescos  lending policy was that disabled customers are put 
at a greater disadvantage than other customers because they are more  likely to depend on 
this type of benefit. In Mr Bs case,  it seemed Tescos decision to exclude  ESA income had 
directly resulted in his application being declined and I thought  this was likely to satisfy  the 
first limb of the test in section 15 of the Equality Act 2010.
I explained that Tesco would then need to show its decision to exclude  ESA income in
Mr Bs case  is a proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim. Tesco had said it was 
acting responsibly  by ensuring  its lending is affordable and sustainable  and it does this by 
requiring customers to have a guaranteed income. 
But I felt that in Mr Bs circumstances  there  was no evidence of any imminent  or even 
medium term change.  Hed told us hed been  in the support group and receiving the highest  
payment available since 2011  and he wasnt aware of any plans for him to be reassessed 
again.
Further, in September 2017, the Department  for Work and Pensions  had said that ESA 
claimants in the support group with limited  capability  for work would no longer be reassessed 
if they have a severe, lifelong  disability, illness or health condition. Whilst Mr B hadnt been 
formally told that applied  to him, based  on what hed told us, I thought it was likely  to.
Taking everything into account,  I didnt think Tesco had done enough to show  its decision to 
exclude ESA income in Mr Bs case was a proportionate means of achieving  a legitimate 
aim. Because of this, I thought Tesco needed  to do more  to explain its policy.  
In the absence of further evidence from Tesco, I was unable to conclude Tesco had acted  
fairly and reasonably in Mr Bs circumstances. I felt that Tescos decision to exclude Mr Bs 
ESA income had left Mr B feeling  discriminated against and I thought  it should  pay him £200  
to make up for that.
responses to my first provisional decision
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision.  Tesco  disagreed with my provisional decision.  In 
summary, it said:
It isnt a high risk lender;
It is a Prudential Regulation Authority ("PRA") registered firm and is subject to the
PRA's Fundamental  Rules, which require it to do the following:
-conduct its business with skill, care and diligence
-act in a prudent manner
-at all times maintain  adequate financial resources
-have effective risk strategies and risk management systems
-organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively
It distinguishes between employment  related benefits and other  types of benefits.  It 
doesnt treat as income any benefit  which is paid because a person is unemployed, 
but benefits paid to supplement other income  are taken  into account;
Ref: DRN79210173It doesnt consider  unemployment benefits  to be guaranteed  income  and so it doesnt 
treat this as sustainable income; and
It treats some disability  benefits as income because  they are not related to 
employment status.
Tesco also referred  to a previous decision issued by one of my colleagues.
 
my second  provisional decision
I explained that having  reviewed the further submissions provided, I was minded not to 
uphold the complaint. Because  this differed from my provisional decision it would also be 
provisional and Id consider what both sides had to say about it before I reached  a final 
decision.
I explained that its my role to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint and because the decision Tesco had referred  me to 
concerns a different product with different risk analysis considerations, I didnt consider it to 
be relevant to Mr Bs complaint.
I explained that when deciding whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, Id continued  to think about relevant  law and good 
industry practice, including the Equality Act 2010.
For the reasons  Id explained in my first provisional decision, I still thought Tescos decision 
to disregard Mr Bs ESA income had resulted in Mr B being treated unfairly because of 
something arising in consequence of his disability. I had also considered  that Tescos 
lending criteria might  be indirect discrimination. I explained that indirect  discrimination under  
the Equality Act 2010 occurs where:
a person (in this case Tesco) applies its policy to customers who dont have a 
disability as well as to those who do;
the policy puts those customers with a disability at a particular disadvantage 
compared to those who dont have a disability;
the customer is one of those disadvantaged; and
the person  cant show that the policy is justified   that is, that its a proportionate 
means of achieving a legitimate aim.
The next thing  for me to think about  was whether Tescos decision  to disregard Mr Bs ESA 
income when assessing  his application for a credit card was a proportionate means of 
achieving a legitimate aim, which is the test for both DAFD and indirect  discrimination. I 
explained that to show this, Tesco would  firstly need  to establish a legitimate aim and 
secondly that the measures it has taken to achieve  that aim were appropriate and 
proportionate.
In my first provisional decision  I didnt think Tesco had provided enough information to show 
this. It has since provided additional  information  and clarification  which Id taken into 
account.
Ref: DRN79210174Is there  a legitimate  aim?
I acknowledged that Tesco had explained  that an aim it is pursuing is the need for it to 
comply with its legal  and regulatory obligations.  It says that it is subject to the PRAs 
fundamental Rules which require it to act as a responsible, sustainable and secure lender.
Tesco had also explained that it isnt a high risk lender and it has fixed its risk appetite.  It 
believes that its easier to achieve the legitimate aim of acting as a responsible, sustainable 
and secure lender by fixing its risk profile at the level it has.
Having considered these additional points, I considered Tescos aim to comply with its legal 
and regulatory  obligations to be a legitimate  aim.
Were the measures taken  by Tesco appropriate  and proportionate?
I explained that case law in this area reflected that measures taken need to be reasonably 
necessary in order to achieve the legitimate aim in question. A court  would carry out an 
objective balancing exercise to assess whether the legitimate aim relied  is sufficient to 
outweigh the impact of the measures in question on the protected group generally and on 
the individual concerned.
I acknowledged that Tesco had referred to the Acceptable Income Table   UK document 
which it considers when assessing applications  for a credit card. This document  lists benefits 
that are not accepted because of their relation to the employment status of the person.
I noted that ESA income isnt listed as being accepted  and I acknowledged  that this risk 
assessment is used widely across the industry.
Tesco had also explained that its own risk assessment shows that offering a credit card to 
persons who are out of work or have very low levels of employment related benefit income 
would leave it exposed  to a high risk. This is because it believes employment  related 
benefits are subject to change and so arent sustainable. It also believes  unemployment  
benefits are harder to replace than other forms of income if the benefit  is reduced 
unexpectedly.
I explained that Tesco hadnt  provided  the detail  of its risk assessment, but it had shown that 
it counter balances the risk it had identified by distinguishing  between employment related 
benefits and other types of benefits that arent employment related. It explained that whilst  it 
doesnt permit  ESA income because this is connected to the employment status of the 
person, it does permit  other benefits  relating to disability  that arent connected to 
employment status such as PIP and Disability Living Allowance (DLA).
I thought this went some way to show a balancing of risk and that Tesco hadnt applied a 
blanket approach  to benefits relating to disability. It was this balancing  of risk that led me to 
conclude that Tescos decision to exclude Mr Bs ESA income  when assessing his 
application for a credit  card was a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
Ref: DRN79210175Did Tesco act fairly and reasonably?
I was satisfied that Tesco had applied its policy fairly when  assessing  Mr Bs application.  It 
had excluded his ESA income because this was connected to his employment status, but it 
had taken into account his PIP income. Unfortunately,  Mr Bs remaining income at the time 
wasnt sufficient to meet Tescos minimum income  requirement so his application was 
declined.
I also had to bear in mind  that Tesco didnt simply apply its policy to Mr Bs application. It 
had also looked  into Mr Bs individual circumstances and whether it could make  an 
exception. But based on Mr Bs circumstances  at the time, it decided it wouldnt be able to.
Because of this, and for the reasons Id explained, I didnt think  Tesco  had acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in the circumstances. And as such, I was no longer minded to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint. 
responses to my second provisional decision
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision, but he didnt have anything  further  to add.
Tesco agreed with my provisional decision  and it didnt have anything further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  
in my most recent provisional  decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my most recent provisional decision, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7921017