K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  a regular premium PPI policy  in December 2000 alongside a secured 
loan. The PPI policy covered Mr C only against accidents, sickness  and unemployment. The 
policy and loan ended in January 2005.
Mrs C think Halifax  mis-sold the policy to them. Mrs C says they were not given any 
information or advice  about the PPI policy and were not made aware of it at all.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to not uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for the following  reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C a choice to have the PPI 
policy. I cant be sure how it was presented  to them in the meeting. So Ive needed to 
rely on their recollections of what happened  and also consider the sales 
documentation that was used at the time of sale.
Mrs C says they were not made aware of the PPI policy. But her recollections are not 
detailed. This is understandable as the sale took place many years ago. So I have 
looked at the sales  documentation and in particular  the loan agreement to see how 
the PPI was presented to them. I can see on the loan agreement  that the PPI policy 
was presented as optional.  It is stated Do you want personal loan repayments 
insurance? followed  by two boxes  yes and no. Although I can see that a cross 
has been pre-populated by Halifax in a box next to yes, I am persuaded that it has 
been presented  as an optional requirement  on the form. I cant  be sure if they were 
not told the policy was optional, but based  on what I have seen I am persuaded they 
signed the application form agreeing to the PPI policy.
Moving on, Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C during the 
meeting. So as it did recommend the policy to them, it had additional  responsibilities 
during the sale to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mr Cs needs (as the sole 
policy holder). 
Looking at Mr Cs circumstances, I dont  think it was unsuitable for him. I say this 
because Mr C would have needed  the benefit  the cover  provided in a difficult time  if 
he was made unemployed or was sick. I can see that he says he had good sick pay 
(6 months full and 6 months half pay) and savings but he could have claimed benefit 
Ref: DRN78254042alongside his provisions and for longer (up to 60 months for sickness cover), so I 
dont think this made the policy  unsuitable  for him. I can see no other issues that 
would have made the policy unsuitable  either  for Mr C such  as a limitation or 
significant term that would have affected his ability to claim benefit.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy  that 
Mr C took out. On the PPI loan agreement form I can see that it clearly shows the 
monthly premium amount, the monthly  amount for the loan and then the overall 
amount to be paid per month. So I think the costs of the policy were most likely 
disclosed in a clear  way in the meeting. The policy seemed affordable  and could 
have been cancelled at any time by Mr and Mrs C.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  or give 
clear information on the significant terms in the meeting. But its unlikely                    
Mr and Mrs C wouldve  been  affected  by any of these due to their circumstances at 
the time.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7825404