K821x#15complaint
The executors of Mr and Mrs Gs estates complain, via their building  surveyor, about Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limiteds decisions and handling of a claim for subsidence  damage  
originally brought  by the late Mr G about his home.
background
Mr G first claimed  under his buildings insurance  with Lloyds for subsidence  damage  in 2004. 
Lloyds loss adjusters  decided  damage was due to leaking drains  from wear  and tear and 
accidental damage  and paid for part of the repairs,  and the claim was signed off in 2006. 
Cracking reappeared and in 2012  Mr G appointed a building surveyor. He said that Lloyds 
loss adjusters and contractors had been  incompetent with the original claim and subsidence 
wasnt due to escape of water, but to sub soil shrinkage. He said that the repairs werent 
adequate and the whole drainage system should  be replaced to avoid further  damage.
Lloyds accepted that further work was required and appointed an independent structural 
engineer to investigate the claim.  This report said the subsidence was likely  to be linked to 
shrinkage of the sub soil, but considered that repairs to the existing damage would suffice. 
All parties  agreed  that the previous workmanship wasnt adequate. Lloyds acknowledged  
poor service to Mr and Mrs G and their executors  and offered compensation totalling £1,325.
Mr G brought a complaint to us in 2012, but Mr and Mrs G have since died and the building 
surveyor represents the executors. He said the structural  repairs  werent adequate or carried 
out correctly and cracks in the wall werent discovered. He said Lloyds refused to replace 
the whole  drainage system, to prevent further  damage and wont reimburse fees. The 
executors said that dealing  with the claim had a huge bearing  on their parents  health.
Lloyds said it hasnt  declined the claim, and once the drains at the house are repaired it is 
prepared to monitor and check  for subsidence.  Lloyds  said the building  surveyor  may be 
under the impression the drains would be covered, but the policy doesnt extend to this.
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld in part. He said there wasnt enough 
information to show that replacement of the entire drainage system is necessary in order  for 
the repairs to be effective as opposed to preventative. He said as the building  surveyor had 
identified that the initial works werent  adequate Lloyds should  cover his fees. He said Lloyds 
offer of £1,325 compensation for the poor service and inconvenience  caused was fair.
The building surveyor said Lloyds mishandled the claim  and hadnt resolved problems. He 
said the entire drainage system  should be replaced, but the investigator had given as much 
as the executors could hope  for. He said hes uncertain as to how Lloyds will rectify the poor 
work and unfinished repairs.  He said his fees should  be paid up to inspection of the repairs.
Lloyds disagreed that it should be responsible for the building  surveyors fees, saying he 
hadnt progressed  the claim. It said the investigator had agreed that only repairs  to existing 
damage was required  and so it follows that the claim couldve been settled in 2012.
The investigator said Lloyds shouldnt have to pay future fees as this would  need  to be 
subject to any new complaint that might be made. He also said that fees incurred  up to, but 
not beyond 2014 should be paid as a line couldve been drawn  under the claim at that point. 
Ref: DRN78552762Lloyds subsequently agreed  to this and offered £3,018.70 reimbursement for the building 
surveyors fees.
The building surveyor and executors disagreed with this, and said the compensation offered 
by Lloyds was wholly inadequate for the further delays and distress Lloyds had caused. 
They requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at decisions and handling  of the late Mr and Mrs Gs insurance claim by 
Lloyds to see if it has acted in accordance with the terms of the insurance  contract  and if it 
treated them  fairly. And Ive looked at the handling of the claim since  then.
Currently, in resolution  of the claim,  Lloyds has offered to undertake drainage repairs as set 
out in assessment of the independent structural engineer; to rectify  previous poor 
workmanship and complete all structural repairs needed to the property resulting from the 
initial claim. Lloyds  has already  offered  £1,325 compensation to the executors of Mr and Mrs 
Gs estate.
I have looked  at each of these elements to see if they are fair. So far as the repairs  are 
concerned, the investigator didn't think Lloyds should replace the whole drainage system as 
this would be a preventative measure. This represents our services  normal approach to 
repairs and both parties have agreed, so I dont propose to examine this further.  
The building surveyor is concerned about  what work Lloyds will carry out at the property.  
The scope of works should  be that set out within the independent experts  report  and should 
include re-doing previously defective work  and anything left unfinished by Lloyds previous 
contractors, so long as this is required to effect a lasting repair. This must include repairs to 
the superstructure of the property. Lloyds should  ensure  that the repairs  are certified  on 
completion to the executors.
Lloyds said the building  surveyors influence on the claim was limited. I have looked  at 
Lloyds comments and the building surveyors representations and Job Record.  Lloyds said 
after its second assessment highlighted the need for further repairs, there was minimal 
influence from the building  surveyor as the correct decision  had been reached. Lloyds 
proposed to carry out the works but only reimburse  the building surveyors fees until second 
review was completed.
I dont agree with Lloyds  that the building surveyors only contribution was to prolong the 
claim. I can see that he identified the cause of the subsidence and the poor workmanship by 
Lloyds contractors, and the executors said that without  help their late parents wouldnt have 
been able to manage the claim, correspondence and meetings. They said he was helping to 
ensure they wouldnt  get fobbed off with second-rate workmanship again.  Its also incorrect  
to describe the delays as the building surveyors responsibility, as Lloyds has certainly been 
responsible for delays  on its own account. 
Lloyds has now agreed to the investigators  recommendation  that it cover  the building  
surveyors fees of £3,018.70,  to the date of the independent experts  report. Previous failures 
by Lloyds to make effective repairs meant there  were questions that required resolution  and 
Ref: DRN78552763the report led to further  work requirements  on the drainage. I think  its fair for Lloyds to pay 
the building  surveyors  fees of £3,018.70 for tackling these at the time. 
After the independent  experts report the building surveyors  involvement in the claim hasnt 
led to changes in the requirements  for the repairs or much progress.  Although the building 
surveyor might say this is because Lloyds and its agents wont listen  to his advice about the 
repairs, I have reached  the view that the repairs put forward by the independent expert  are 
reasonable and so I think it wouldnt  be fair to require Lloyds to pay fees after this time.
I have considered the compensation offered  by Lloyds  to the executors, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs G and subsequently their executors.  I think  Mr and Mrs 
G were extremely  unfortunate to find themselves  with structural  problems to their home in 
their old age and ill health, and after they thought the problem had been dealt with. I havent 
seen any evidence to show  that Lloyds handling of their claim made  their health worse, but I 
can well understand  the stress they were  under and their need to appoint the building 
surveyor to represent  them.    
The compensation of £1,325 was offered by Lloyds  in two lots, the latter in September 2017  
to cover the poor communications  of its agents and with its agents,  and the stress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs G and their executors.  Given  that it would  appear  that 
there have  been  no developments  on the claim from before this time, I dont think Lloyds  
should have to pay any more than this. I think the offer of compensation is fair in the 
circumstances and I recommend acceptance  by the executors.
I sympathise with the executors for the very prolonged claim for their late parents property 
and trust that repairs can now be scheduled  and completed quickly. If the executors are 
unhappy with the repairs then a further  complaint can be brought  to our service. Once the 
repairs are complete I see no reason why the property cannot be insured once again.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to make effective repairs  to the late Mr and 
Mrs Gs home in accordance with the scope of works put forward by the independent expert 
in his report.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay the executors of the estates of 
Mr and Mrs G compensation of £1,325 for the distress and inconvenience  its poor service  
caused them.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay the building  surveyor representing 
the executors  of the estates of Mr and Mrs G his fees in the total of £3,018.70.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Gs executors 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7855276