K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about the way Hastings Insurance Services  Limited  handled the renewal of 
his home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr F bought  home insurance from Hastings in September 2017. In August 2018  Hastings 
wrote to Mr F and said they would  automatically  renew his policy the following month unless 
he told them  not to do that. Mr F decided to shop around and he bought  a cheaper policy, 
but also with Hastings. In September 2018  Hastings wrote to Mr F to say they had 
unsuccessfully tried to take a payment  from his card and asked him to call in order  to pay the 
premium. If they didnt hear from him within the next two weeks,  they would cancel his 
policy. In early October Hastings sent Mr F a cancellation warning notice, which  said that 
they had still not been  able to collect payment and they would cancel his policy within  
7 days. They  also asked him to return his certificate of insurance immediately. 
Mr F complained to Hastings that they had sent him threatening and disturbing  letters  that 
said he owed money when he didnt. He said he was distressed that he would be placed  on 
a bad credit  database.  Hastings  cancelled Mr Fs first policy  and responded to his complaint 
a week later by saying it had been  resolved.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said that as Mr Fs new policy was also 
with Hastings, she understood why Mr F didnt feel it was necessary to let them know he 
wasnt going to renew  his existing policy. She explained that due to different systems used 
by Hastings, they hadnt identified that Mr F had bought a new policy and had therefore tried 
to renew the old policy. She said Mr Fs renewal documents had asked him to get in touch if 
he didnt want to renew his policy, and he hadnt  done that. She didnt think Hastings had 
acted inappropriately  in sending the cancellation letters to him as they had followed their 
process. 
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators  view. He said there was no obligation on 
consumers to inform  a business  when  an agreed 12 month contract is due to expire. He also 
said that although Hastings had sent him a letter saying  his complaint had been resolved, 
there had been  nothing  in there to say what the error had been  or why hed been asked to 
pay for a policy hed never asked for. 
As Mr F remained  unhappy, his complaint was been  passed to me. I didnt agree with all of 
the investigators findings. So I sent a provisional decision to Mr F and Hastings to explain 
why I intended  to come to a slightly different outcome to the investigator. Hastings didnt 
respond. Mr F accepted my decision.  As such,  my findings and decision  below  are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional  decision.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr F says Hastings  had no right to renew  his policy, or to seek a payment for it, beyond the 
12 months hed agreed. Many insurance companies  use an automatic renewal process. 
There are potentially serious consequences  of not being insured and the automatic renewal 
Ref: DRN77657092process can help protect customers  from the risks of being uninsured because  their policy  
has expired. So I dont think its wrong for an insurer to set up a policy to automatically 
renew. But I would expect it to clearly  explain  to the consumer what it intends  to do. And I 
also think it should explain  what the consumer has to do if they dont  want  to automatically  
renew as well as setting out what date the policy will lapse and what  the renewal premium is. 
It should also ask the consumer  to make sure the information theyve given is correct and 
give contact details if the consumer has any queries. Insurers usually  provide  details  of their 
renewal premium around a month before the renewal date. This gives  customers  the 
opportunity to shop  around.  
In this case, I can see that Hastings wrote to Mr F in August 2018, about a month  before the 
renewal date. The letter set out the old and new premiums and explained that theyll 
automatically renew the policy  unless Mr F tells them  otherwise.  They  said theyd send Mr F 
his documents  in the post on the renewal date and take payment from his card at the same 
time. They also gave  contact details if Mr F wanted  to discuss  or amend his policy details or 
if he didnt want to automatically renew his policy. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr F contacted  Hastings to ask them not to renew this 
policy. And in light of their August 2018 letter, I dont think it was unfair for Hastings to then 
tell Mr F in September  and October 2018  that they would cancel that policy because they 
hadnt been able to collect payment.
Mr F thinks those latter  two letters  were  threatening but they were standard automated  
letters sent for the purpose of notifying customers that their policy  would be cancelled unless 
they contacted  Hastings.  Both letters gave contact details for their customer  service  team 
and Mr F could  have contacted Hastings to clarify the situation. The letters  also gave the 
policy number for Mr Fs previous policy so I think it was reasonable for him to have  known 
the letters related to his previous policy and not to his new one. I note that he was aware this 
was the case  as he referred to the two policy numbers in his complaint to Hastings.
I can understand why Mr F was upset to receive  these letters,  having just paid for another  
policy with Hastings. Hastings have said they now have a safeguard  in place  that doesnt 
allow a customer to buy two policies for the same product from the same system online. But, 
at the time Mr F bought  his new policy,  this wasnt the case  and they had two systems that 
didnt interact. I cant criticise Hastings for that. Theyve improved  their service and its just 
unfortunate Mr F bought his new policy before that happened.
While I dont think Hastings did anything wrong in notifying Mr F they would cancel his policy 
if they didnt hear anything from him, they didnt help the situation by failing to explain what  
had happened  when he complained in early October  2018. Mr F said he was very distressed 
at receiving those letters  and he was concerned the cancellation would  give him a bad credit  
record. In response,  Hastings took action to cancel the previous policy  and responded to 
Mr Fs complaint later that month.  But the letter simply said weve  resolved your complaint . 
There was no explanation of what had happened  or what theyd resolved. I can understand 
why this would have frustrated Mr F even  more. Hastings told this service what  had 
happened and provided assurances  that Mr F hadnt been placed  on any internal or external 
databases with respect  to the policy premium being outstanding. Had Hastings said the 
same to Mr F, he would have understood the situation sooner and avoided  some of the 
trouble and upset  caused by this issue.
So, while I dont think Hastings acted  unfairly or unreasonably in sending those letters  to 
Mr F, I do think it could  have communicated with him better. As such, I think  it needs  to do a 
Ref: DRN77657093bit more to put things  right. I think a payment of £75 would be fair and reasonable in light of 
the trouble and upset caused by Hastings and the particular  circumstances of this case.
 
my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part and ask Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited  to pay Mr F £75 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7765709