K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund a cash 
withdrawal from their joint account that they dispute.
background
Mr G visited a branch of Halifax on 8 August 2018.  He wanted to set up a monthly standing 
order to an account  with a different financial business for £400. It was too late to set this up 
for the date in the month  he wanted  for August and so it was going  to start from 10 
September 2018. Mr G says he arranged for a single payment transfer to be made  instead.  
But Halifax  says that he went to the branch counter and withdrew £400 in cash.  Mr G 
disputes receiving  this money and says if he had he would have taken it to the branch of the 
other business nearby. Mr and Mrs G have shown that the money never reached the other  
account and that the balance on that account  was overdrawn.
Halifax didnt agree to refund the money.  It said Mr G had used his card twice in the branch.  
It was first used to set up the standing order and the second time when Mr G was being 
assisted by a different  member of staff at the counter. Mr G hadnt  lost his card and Halifax 
said he had withdrawn the cash.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Halifax do anything  further.  The evidence from 
Halifax showed that two different members of staff had accessed Mr and Mrs Gs account  
that day. The first had dealt with the standing order and the second  arranged for the 
withdrawal of cash using  Mr Gs card. He concluded that Mr G had authorised the cash  
withdrawal.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said that they thought that Halifax  might have miscounted 
money before this transaction.  And that it was either trying to make up for that or just take 
their money. They were concerned that CCTV wasnt  available. They offered to settle the 
matter for £200 but our investigator told them that Halifax wouldnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And it wasnt  authorised  Mr 
and Mrs G wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for this 
payment?
-Did Mr G authorise this withdrawal  as Halifax says?
Ive looked closely  at the evidence about the access to Mr and Mrs Gs account in the 
branch that day provided by Halifax. I can see it has already explained to Mr and Mrs G that 
it doesnt keep  CCTV evidence for more than a month and so this wasnt available  to look at 
what happened. Mr and Mrs G said that branch staff told them that they wouldnt access  
Ref: DRN73927812CCTV to resolve this type of dispute. But in any event I dont think that this would  have been  
available.  
Im satisfied that Halifax has established  the following with the evidence  its submitted:
-The card was provided to two different  employees  one who set up the standing order  
starting at 11:08 that day and the other  who dealt with the disputed  payment.
-There was a cash withdrawal of £400  authenticated at 11:11 with Mr Gs card and this 
would have required the physical card and the correct PIN to be input.
So what  I need to consider is whether Mr G consented to this withdrawal. Mr G said to this 
service that to the best of my knowledge  the only time that the card was out of my 
possession that day was while the Halifax assistant  swiped  it through his tablet card reader.
If Mr G didnt consent to this withdrawal then Id need to think that his card was taken  from 
him again, given  to a different employee,  and that this employee  was somehow able to enter 
his correct PIN. And then in the very limited  time available that person  decided to make  a 
transaction equivalent to the one Mr G said he wanted to make  electronically and then 
concealed the cash that had been withdrawn. The card would need to have been  returned to 
him again without  him realising it had been  out of his possession.
Im afraid I think thats a very unlikely  sequence of events. I consider that instead Mr G most 
likely did go to the branch counter and consented to a withdrawal of £400 from his account in 
cash. So I find on balance  that he authorised the withdrawal and I dont have a basis  to 
require Halifax to do anything further.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7392781