K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms H complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unreasonably refused to pay their claim 
for damage  to their caravan, under their caravan insurance policy.
  
background
Mr L and Ms H noticed a crack in their caravan  and claimed to AXA. They  said they didnt 
know how the crack had been caused.  AXA declined their claim as it said the crack hadnt  
been caused by an insured event. Mr L said that a business selling caravans that he had 
spoken to disagreed with AXAs position.
Loss adjusters were appointed on AXAs behalf  and they sent an engineer to assess the 
caravan. The loss adjusters wrote to Mr L and said that no evidence  of any impact or other 
form of accidental damage to the caravan had been  found and so there was nothing to show  
the cause of the cracking. AXA said based on this it would  maintain its decline of the claim. 
Mr L and Ms H complained to AXA about  its decision  on their claim.  The loss adjusters  got 
two more engineers  to give an opinion. The loss adjusters told Mr L that the engineers had 
reported similar cracks in other  makes  of Mr L and Ms Hs caravan. It said this damage is the 
result of gradual deterioration,  wear and tear, possibly exacerbated by design flaws. The 
loss adjusters sent one of the engineers  to inspect the caravan in person and it said he 
maintained his findings in a report.
Mr L said he took his caravan  to a business selling caravans and its representative had 
disagreed with the engineers findings.  Mr L said the representative told him this was a 
known fault in this age and model of caravan.  AXA asked the engineer to speak to the 
representative and the engineer said he was non-committal and didnt provide any view 
about the cause of the damage.  
AXA said the first engineer couldnt  determine the cause of the crack  and thought  it possible 
that an object  had rubbed against the panel  for a long period of time.  The second engineers 
advised of similar damage in the make  of caravan which they thought  was a design or 
manufacturing issue. AXA said theres no evidence the damage was due to an insured event 
and the damage  was excluded by the wear and tear clause in the policy  and it wouldnt pay 
the claim.  AXA paid Mr L and Ms H £75 compensation for confusion  over the cause  of 
damage between  the engineers, but said this didnt change the outcome of the claim.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the representative of 
the caravan business told him the damage could  potentially be a manufacturing fault but he 
wasnt sure and he doesnt specialise in the same make of caravan. The investigator  thought  
that the representative and the engineers reports showed that AXA had investigated the 
claim fairly. He said the outcome of the claim wasnt affected by the different findings of the 
engineers as neither found  any evidence  to support the claim.  He said AXAs payment of 
£75 compensation  in recognition of the confusion caused by the engineers  reports, was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71345132Mr L and Ms H said that AXA had unfairly declined their claim. AXA said there was no 
evidence the damage was covered under their policy.  Its not our role to determine the cause  
of the damage  but we look at the evidence to see what is most likely to have  happened  and 
to see if the insurer  has treated  the policyholder fairly. 
Not everything that may lead to damage of a caravan is covered under an insurance  policy. 
Generally, for a claim to succeed damage  must have  been caused by a sudden,  unexpected  
event, such as an accident. The events that cause damage for which a claim would be 
covered are set out in Mr L and Ms Hs policy. The policy excludes cover  for damage from 
wear and tear and manufacturing or design faults:
Section 1  Caravan
Exclusions
What is not insured (amongst others) 
1.Depreciation, deterioration,  manufacturing defects, wear and tear, damage by 
moth, vermin, mildew,  rot water leakage  or any gradually operating process.  
Mr L said he didnt know what had caused his caravan to crack. He said he may have hit a 
pothole and also said that a representative of a caravan business told him it was a design 
fault for that particular model.  The loss adjuster  also said that cracking was a known problem 
with this brand of caravan.
Ive considered the reports about  the damage  to Mr L and Ms Hs caravan  and the photos. I 
can see that the engineers came to different conclusions about  how the crack occurred. But 
importantly, neither could  find any evidence which would point to an insured  event  as the 
cause.  
Whether or not the cause  of the crack was a manufacturing fault, or wear and tear, the 
clause in the policy deals with this. Unfortunately  for Mr L and Ms H, neither wear and tear 
nor manufacturing faults are covered  under the policy. None  of the assessments of Mr L and 
Ms Hs caravan provide evidence of an insured cause and in the absence  of this I think it 
was fair for AXA to decline  the claim. 
I also think that AXAs payment of £75 compensation to Mr L and Ms H for the different 
conclusions reached  by the engineers is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134513