K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Sainsburys Bank  Plc handled a problem with his credit card 
personal identification number (PIN).
background
Mr M says he used  his Sainsburys credit card to book  a hire car for a long-haul family 
fly/drive holiday, and that he intended  to use the card while on holiday  too. A few days 
before he was due to go on holiday,  Mr M says he tried using his credit  card in a 
supermarket but payment was twice  declined as the PIN was incorrect.
Mr M called Sainsburys that same day. He says he was on the phone for about three hours,  
was passed between different agents,  and was told his card was fine and to try using it in a 
cash machine. But Mr M wasnt happy  with that advice as he was concerned  that a cash 
machine might withhold and block his card.  So he called Sainsburys again the next day. He 
says he had to call back after being  cut off, and because  there  was no note of his previous 
calls he had to explain things again to two different agents. 
In the calls Sainsburys explained that it had sent Mr M a new PIN in June 2018, though 
Mr M said he was unaware of this. It also told Mr M his PIN needed to be reset but its 
processes meant it couldnt get a new PIN to him before  he went on holiday in three days 
time. To work around this, it suggested Mr M ask a family member  to check  his post while  he 
was away, but Mr Ms family  were  all going on holiday with him. Mr M was particularly 
worried he wouldnt be able to collect his hire car without the PIN of the credit  card hed used 
to book it. So Sainsburys said it would try to call the hire company but wasnt  able to get 
through. Sainsburys logged a complaint for Mr M and paid him £150 compensation for his 
distress.
Mr M says the issue with his PIN caused  him a great deal of worry about collecting his hire 
car, as well the embarrassment  and inconvenience of having  to ask friends to use their credit  
cards in hotels while  on holiday. He didnt  think Sainsburys  had taken this seriously enough,  
and he was unhappy about the service it had given  him when he called. So he got in touch 
with our service. 
After looking into things,  our investigator  said that while on balance she thought  the PIN 
problem was caused by Sainsburys, she thought  it had offered him reasonable solutions.  
She also thought  there were issues with the customer service Sainsburys had given Mr M, 
but that £150 was reasonable compensation taking everything into account.
Mr M disagreed, so his complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. I contacted 
Sainsburys and Mr M to let them know I didnt think £150 was enough to compensate 
Mr M for the distress and inconvenience of having  to make several calls and repeat himself, 
the potential impact of not having a hire car, and having to ask friends  to use their credit 
cards. I said that £500 was a fairer  amount in the circumstances,  but Sainsburys disagreed 
so Ive gone on to make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint and awarding additional compensation. 
Ref: DRN78370532Ive thought about the customer service Sainsburys gave Mr M. While Sainsburys hasnt 
been able to find a recording of Mr Ms first call, Ive listened to the two calls he made the 
next day. The agents do try to help, but Mr Ms call appears to cut off and he has to repeat 
the details twice because theres no note of his previous calls.  And what  Mr M tells those 
agents is consistent with what hes told us about his call the day before. Based on what Ive 
heard I think Mr M was caused  unnecessary  inconvenience  and frustration by being cut off, 
having to call back, and having  to repeat the details to different agents.
Ive then gone on to think about what caused the problem  with Mr Ms PIN. Sainsburys says 
that because of a fraud on his account,  it sent him a new card in July 2018 along with a letter  
saying that his PIN would  stay the same. Mr Ms statements show  that he used this new 
card, though for transactions that didnt require his PIN. 
In its calls, Sainsburys tells Mr M it sent him a new PIN in June 2018. Mr M says he didnt 
ask for this or receive it. Sainsburys hasnt  offered  a definite reason  for why it sent Mr M a 
new PIN in June 2018 and cant provide further  details about  the PIN for fraud  prevention 
purposes. But it has speculated  it might  have been related to the fraud on Mr Ms account or 
that it might have been an error  with its system. Sainsburys hasnt said the PIN change was 
caused by Mr M or provided any evidence that suggests this. Taking  all this into account,  
Ive not seen enough evidence to be satisfied that Sainsburys  actually sent Mr M a new PIN.
So based  on the evidence Ive seen,  on balance I think its likely the problem with the PIN 
was caused by Sainsburys and that it didnt send Mr M anything that wouldve made him 
think there was a problem  with his PIN.
Mr M has explained the impact its had on him. He says the car hire company terms and 
conditions say hed need to use his Sainsburys card when  collecting  the car, as it was the 
card hed used to book  it. He didnt know if hed be allowed to collect his car without his PIN, 
so for several days he was very distressed about the potential impact  this might have on his 
fly/drive holiday with his wife and four children. I know  that in the end Mr M did manage to 
collect his car without his PIN, but I think  the uncertainty in the days  leading up to that would  
have been very distressing and marred  the start of his holiday.  
Mr M has also explained that while he was able use cash  on holiday, hotels would only
accept credit cards so he had to ask friends  to use their credit card. I think this would have  
caused Mr M inconvenience and would have  been an ongoing source of embarrassment  for 
him while on holiday. 
When it became clear Sainsburys wouldnt be able to send Mr M a new PIN in time for his 
holiday, it did try to help for example by calling the car hire company. But I dont think this 
lessened the distress Mr M experienced as a result of Sainsburys changing his PIN without 
his knowledge.  I think £500 is a more  fair and reasonable  compensation for that distress,  so 
Sainsburys should pay Mr M another  £350 compensation in addition  to the £150 its already 
paid him.
Ref: DRN78370533my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.  Sainsburys Bank Plc should  
pay Mr M a further £350 compensation  in addition to the £150 its already  paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7837053