K820x#14complaint
Mrs J, on behalf of her late husband  Mr J, brought this complaint about the compensation 
offered by NRAM Limited (NRAM) for a mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside a loan.
background
Mr J took out a loan in his name  with NRAM and at the same  time bought  a PPI policy, also 
in his name. When Mrs J raised  the complaint with NRAM, sadly after Mr J had passed 
away, NRAM upheld the complaint and offered to pay compensation. 
However, in order to pay the compensation NRAM said it needed a Grant  of Probate or other 
similar legal certification  to show Mrs J was lawfully authorised to receive the compensation 
on behalf of Mr J.
Mrs J said her husbands estate was less than £5,000  so she had automatically been  the 
sole beneficiary without  the need  for any Grant of Probate or other  legal documentation.
NRAM said as the compensation  was indicated as over £5,000.00 legal authority for this 
payment to be made to Mrs J was essential.
Mrs J, who is represented by a third party, was not happy with this and brought the 
complaint to this service  as she said she did not need such  legal documentation for the 
payment to be made.
Our adjudicator said NRAM  had done  nothing wrong  requested  relevant documents as legal 
authority was required because the compensation was over £5,000.00. Mrs J remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NRAM has upheld the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and indicated the compensation 
is around £5,400.40.  In its offer letter it indicated  that this redress amount was provided  for 
illustration only, as to receive the payment anyone bringing the complaint on behalf of the 
deceased needed to have  the correct legal authority. The final figure will be calculated at the 
time payment is made.
Mrs J and her representatives are very unhappy that NRAM are requiring a Grant of Probate  
or Letters  of Administration to show legal authority  to act on behalf of Mr J. It seems at the 
time Mr J died his estate was deemed  to be worth less than £5,000 so Mrs J, as his 
surviving spouse, had automatically inherited  everything. So there had been no need to go 
through any process to obtain  Probate  or Letters  of Administration. 
In this complaint  the loan and PPI were solely in Mr Js name.  So he is the eligible 
complainant about  the PPI and receive  any compensation due. The compensation is an 
asset of his, and on his death, part of his estate.  Although this asset  has only just been 
identified it is still part of Mr Js estate. Therefore, it is quite right that the essential legal 
documentation identifying  who is responsible for administering  the estate is produced. 
Ref: DRN77197402Mrs J has now produced  a copy of Mr Js death  certificate and that combined with her 
marriage certificate indicates  she is eligible  to bring  the complaint to this service on behalf of 
her deceased husband.  
I have noted all the submissions made by Mrs J and her representative about a payment 
being made for compensation previously on another matter direct  to Mrs J, but this was for 
under £200.  I have  also noted the comments made  that NRAM should have reviewed its 
records earlier and then the compensation would have been  less than £5,000.
It is regrettable that the PPI was not identified  earlier  or that a complaint was not made  to 
NRAM previously. However, that does not alter the fact that based  on the time the complaint 
was taken to NRAM, and the calculation made,  the compensation is over £5,000.00.  This 
looks to be fair compensation and in line with what we would anticipate the business to 
calculate and offer. It does pay more compensatory interest for the length  of time a 
consumer is out of pocket which is correct.
NRAM is required to ensure that the correct legal  authority is held by the person it pays  the 
compensation to. And as the compensation is over £5,000, making Mr Js estate worth  more 
than £5,000 based solely on this payment,  then a grant of representation must be provided.
The cost for this is not substantial and can be obtained by Mrs J through  the Government  
website. But it will be required if she wishes to be paid the compensation due to her 
husbands estate.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint  that NRAM should pay the compensation to 
Mrs J without the essential legal documentation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I am not upholding Mrs Js complaint that NRAM Limited 
should pay the compensation for the mis-sold PPI, without correct legal authority for her to 
receive the amount offered on behalf  of her husbands estate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J, on behalf of 
Mr J, to accept  or reject my decision before  21 May 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7719740