K820x#14complaint
Miss K says that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  mis-sold her a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
In 2009 Miss K discovered a PPI policy covering her mortgage in her ex-husbands name. 
She contacted UKI to transfer it into her name. The existing  PPI policy  was cancelled and a 
new one set up in Miss Ks name.  The policy covered her mortgage payments if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  He thought she made it clear in 
the PPI application that she wanted  the policy and that it wouldve suited her needs at the 
time. 
Miss K disagrees, she says she didnt need the cover.
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ks complaint.
UKI had to make it clear the PPI was optional and that Miss K agreed to take it. UKIs 
system call notes record that Miss K phoned it in 2009 and explained she was going  through  
a divorce and wanted the PPI policy transferred into her own name. The notes  record that 
Miss K was advised  to cancel the PPI direct debit  and that a new PPI application would be 
sent out.
A few days  later the direct  debit was cancelled and a week after that a new PPI policy was 
set up in Miss Ks sole name. Ive seen  a copy of the signed PPI application form UKI 
received from Miss K.
If Miss K didnt  want  PPI she couldve  just cancelled the direct debit on the old policy  and not 
completed an application for a new one. I understand  Miss K was going through  a difficult  
time with a change in her personal  circumstances  - but there  was over a week  between the 
phone call to UKI and the setup of the policy. I think this was enough time for Miss K to 
decide for herself whether  she wanted the policy.  So I think Miss K took out the new policy 
because she wanted the cover. 
Miss K says she was told she needed to take out the policy.  So to be fair to her Im going  to 
treat the sale as if UKI advised her to take the policy  this puts her in the best possible 
position. What  this means is that UKI not only had to provide information about  PPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Miss K could make an informed  choice about  
buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was 
suitable for her needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN71370412I dont know if UKI did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss K for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss K says she was entitled to a good  level of sick pay and her 
family and partner wouldve helped her make  her repayments if she couldnt work.  But 
there is no guarantee her partner or family  would  be in a position to help and a 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and covered her 
for up to 12 months if she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness, or if she lost 
her job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Miss K in her circumstances 
especially considering  she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think  
she wouldve been interested  in protecting them and this is especially so given her 
circumstances at the time - I wouldve thought having the policy  would give her some 
peace of mind.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Miss K at the time. And 
if she decided  she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether UKI gave Miss K information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont know if UKI did give all the information as it shouldve.  But for 
the same  reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Miss K has told us about  
her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken  out the policy  if shed been  
given all the proper  information.  
Which means UKI doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint against UK Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137041