K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a training course that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Omni Capital  Retail Finance Limited  was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr L electronically signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital in January 2018 to 
pay for an HGV driving  course. The cost of the course was £3,297 and he paid a deposit of 
£33, so the loan was for £3,264 which he agreed  to repay by a payment of £96.28  and then 
47 monthly payments  of £96.29. The rate of interest  for the loan was 19.9%.
He complained to Omni Capital in May 2018  that the course  had been  mis-sold to him 
because the course  provider  had guaranteed him work and an income  of £30,000 after hed 
completed the course - but hed completed  the course and not been  offered any work. It said 
that it hadnt been able to evidence that the course provider offered job guarantees so didnt 
agree that the course was mis-sold  to Mr L. But it said that there had been  a delay in 
responding to his complaint so it paid him £150  by way of apology for the delay and any 
distress or inconvenience it may have caused. Mr L wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She was persuaded 
that Mr L was most likely told that employment would be guaranteed  and she thought that 
that induced him into taking the course. But she said that Mr L had benefited  from the 
course so she recommended  that Omni  Capital should  rework his loan as if the cost of 
the course  had been £2,297 (£1,000 less than the actual cost).  She also said that it 
should arrange to pay the £150  compensation to Mr L, if he hadnt already  received it.
Omni Capital  has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It has 
responded in detail  and says that the course  provider  did not guarantee jobs to its students 
and has provided  extracts from the course  providers  website.  It accepts that the website 
included the statements:  Train in under 1 week. Earn weekly  £500+.  1000+ jobs waiting.  
Trained HGV drivers  have promising career and can earn over £30,000; but it says that they 
are factual statements, dont constitute  any guarantee of employment  and arent unclear, 
unfair or misleading.
It says that the website  outlines the steps  that a student would follow  when they sign up with 
the course provider,  step 5 of which says:  Start  your new career  - youre now road-ready  
and there  are thousands of HGV jobs waiting for you. Our recruitment  team can help find 
you employment in your new industry  and it says that there is no statement that the 
course provider will guarantee its students  a job. It also says that, on the HGV  jobs page, 
students were provided with a link to a third partys  search engine from which they could 
access a central pool of job adverts.
It says that Mr L didnt benefit from a review of his CV which  it has benchmarked as a 
separate service  costing  around £50 and which it offered to refund to him. But it says that 
the course provider  has stopped trading and it would be unfair to reach a conclusion based  
solely on Mr Ls recollection  of a conversation that took place a number of years ago and 
runs contrary to the available documentary evidence.
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Omni Capital on 28 January 2021.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ref: DRN77878512Its clear  that Mr L considers that the course provider had guaranteed to him that he 
would quickly be able to get a job with an annual salary of at least  £30,000  and he 
says that he wouldnt  have taken the course without that guarantee. But Ive 
reviewed the information  from the course  providers  website and Im not persuaded 
that any of the information on it would properly be understood  to be a job guarantee. 
I consider that the information provided was examples of what was possible and Im 
not persuaded that its likely that the course provider  would have  offered  job 
guarantees to its students.
I sympathise with Mr L that he wasnt able to get a job as quickly  as he expected  but 
he received the course that hed paid for and Im not persuaded that hes provided  
enough evidence  to show that the course  was mis-represented to him. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Omni Capital 
to rework his loan agreement as if the loan was for a lower amount,  to refund to him 
any of the loan repayments that hes made or to end the loan agreement.
Omni Capital  has accepted that there was a delay in it responding to Mr Ls 
complaint and it says that its paid him £150  compensation because  of that. If Mr L 
hasnt received that compensation  then I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Omni  Capital  to pay him the £150.
Omni Capital  has also said that Mr L didnt benefit  from the review  of his CV which  
was included as part of the course.  It says that it has benchmarked that as a 
separate service  costing  around £50 and that its offered  to refund £50 to him. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund £50 to Mr L. But, other  
than the payment of £50 (and the £150  if it hasnt been received by Mr L), I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Omni Capital  to take any other action in response to Mr Ls complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr L or Omni Capital, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. Neither Mr L nor Omni  Capital  has 
responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr L nor Omni Capital has responded to my provisional  decision, I see no reason 
to change the findings that I made in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  contained in my provisional decision and as set out above,  my decision  is 
that I uphold  Mr Ls complaint  in part and I order Omni Capital Retail  Finance Limited:
1.To pay to Mr L the £50 compensation that it has offered to him because  his CV 
wasnt reviewed.
2.If it hasnt  already done so, to pay to Mr L the £150 compensation that it has offered 
to him because of its delay in responding to his complaint.
Ref: DRN77878513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7787851