K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has told us that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D was sold the PPI when she took out a loan in 2001. The loan included an amount to 
pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy. Looking at her 
circumstances, Mrs D met these rules. So I think shed have been eligible to claim on the 
PPI if she needed  to. 
Mrs D took out her loan over the phone. She told us that she wasnt  given a clear choice 
about the policy and she wasnt given a chance to consider  it before accepting. 
In considering my decision, Ive taken into account how long ago this sale was. Although  
Nationwide has been able to send us some documentation the recording of the phone  call 
hasnt survived this long.  Since the loan finished  in 2004, this isnt surprising. And clearly  its 
possible, and indeed understandable,  that Mrs D might be unable to accurately remember  
everything that happened from eighteen years ago. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the telephone  application form. This indicates  that during 
the call, the sales representative would have been prompted to make it clear that the PPI 
was optional. In addition, Nationwide provided a copy of Mrs Ds loan agreement which was 
sent to her after the call. Theres a section relating to the PPI policy and its headed; 
Optional  Credit Insurance.  
Mrs D signed the form and returned it to Nationwide. I dont  think  its likely that having read 
this Mrs D would have  thought that the policy was compulsory. And I think shed have 
understood that she could turn down the PPI if she wanted to. Ive considered what Mrs D 
has told us, but on balance I think its most likely  that Nationwide gave her a clear choice 
and so Im not upholding her complaint on this basis.
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D, so it didnt have to make  sure that it 
was suitable for her. But it was required to provide  her with enough information  about the 
policy so she could  make  the decision for herself  about whether or not to take it out. 
Ref: DRN79590632Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But given her 
circumstances Mrs D doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium, the total cost and the monthly payment. So I 
think Mrs D would have understood how much she was going to pay for it.
Ive considered the possibility that Nationwide didnt  give Mrs D clear information about  the 
benefit payable  under the policy. However,  Mrs D told us that if she was too ill to work or 
was made  redundant, she would have been  entitled to full pay for six months and half pay 
for six months thereafter. But the PPI would have paid out for the term of the loan if she was 
off work sick. And it would have covered the repayments for up to 12 months  per claim if she 
lost her job. So I dont  think its likely  that clearer information about this would have 
dissuaded her from taking out the policy.
I appreciate Mrs D says her family would have been able to help her meet  the loan 
repayments if she wasnt able to, and I dont doubt  that they would have wanted to help 
Mrs D. But that would  have depended on the circumstances of the family at that particular  
time. They may have  changed and her family might not have been able to help when 
needed, and therefore it wasnt guaranteed. So having considered  all the available  
information I dont  require Nationwide to put anything right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7959063