K820x#14Complaint
Mr G and Ms R complain  that a transfer of money from their Nationwide Building Society
account didnt  reach  its intended destination,  because of an error on the part of Nationwide.
Background
Mr G has explained that on 23 August 2018 he went into a Nationwide  branch to transfer
£5,000 from his and Ms Rs joint account  to an account he held with a credit union. He says
he gave Nationwide  staff a letter from the credit  union with his account details and that
branch staff made  the transfer for him.
In December 2018 Mr G noticed that the money  hadnt been credited to his credit union
account. He asked Nationwide to look into what had happened and it said it would do so.
After some delay it said that it was unable to recover the money. It appeared that it had been
sent to the wrong account, as the final two digits of the account  number had been
transposed.
Nationwide also said that its records showed that the transfer hadnt been  made  by way of a
branch transfer,  but that Mr G had made it online.  It wasnt therefore responsible for any
error in the account number of the recipient. It acknowledged that it should have tried to
trace the payment  sooner than it had and offered Mr G £75 in recognition of that.
Mr G maintained that the transfer was carried out by Nationwide  staff, and not by himself.  He
says that, in addition to the loss of £5,000  both he and Ms R have suffered anxiety and
distress as a result  of what  happened. Hes also told us that they have serious  health
problems which are aggravated  by stress.
Our investigator looked at what had happened  but was persuaded the transfer  must have
been made by Mr G himself, and so didnt think Nationwide  could fairly be held responsible
for the error  which had seen it transferred to the wrong account.  And he felt the £75
compensation offered by Nationwide was fair to reflect  the delay in its attempt to retrieve the
funds.
Mr G and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators  findings, and so the case  was passed to 
me to review. I did that and issued a provisional  decision, the findings of which I set out 
below:
In keeping with the informal nature of our service Ive focused on what  I consider to be the
key matters in my decision here. But Id like to thank to parties for the detailed information
provided and assure them  that I have considered everything they have  presented to us in 
full and taken  into account all that theyve  told us.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  (as some of it is here)  then I have reached
my conclusions on the basis of what I think is more likely to have happened.
I know Mr G and Ms R will be very disappointed,  but on the basis of the evidence  Ive 
seen I dont feel Im in a position to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
payment to Mr Gs savings account
Nationwide says its staff cannot recall  assisting Mr G in branch on the 23 August  2018  
the date the £5,000 payment was made. Mr G, on the other hand, has a clear recollection 
of going to the branch  to make the payment.  Hes explained that, having had difficulty 
Ref: DRN76989722making on online payment just over two weeks earlier, he went  to the branch to avoid any 
problems.
Given the amount  of time that passed before a complaint  was raised  with Nationwide, it
doesnt have any CCTV footage available  from the branch that would place Mr G in it on 
23 August 2018.
Nationwide has explained however  that the branch has an online terminal which 
customers can use, in much the same way they would  if they were  using their own 
computer. Its possible  that Mr G went  to the branch but still carried  out the transfer  
himself. Nationwide  says that a member of staff may sit next to the customer at this 
terminal to assist them, but that staff would not key any information into this terminal  on a 
customers behalf. For that reason, even if I accept that Mr G went  to the branch to make 
the transfer, I still need to consider how it was made.
Nationwide has provided us with a report showing activity on Mr Gs personal  online 
banking account  between 16:05  and 16:15  on the 23 August 2018.  This report  shows  that 
Mr Gs account was accessed using his customer number and card reader validation.  A 
payee was then set up, and a payment made to that payee, again using a card reader. 
That report  doesnt show the payees details or the details  of the payment. However,  as 
only one payment was made from Mr Gs account  that day. Im satisfied its likely this 
report details the transfer of the £5,000 taking place.
Mr G says that it was a member of Nationwides staff who keyed in the payee  details and
made this payment, not him. But Nationwide has explained that when staff make  a 
payment in branch on behalf  of a customer they dont do so by accessing  a customers 
personal online banking  account. They use the staff terminal, having verified that they are 
dealing with the genuine customer. When staff make a payment on behalf of a customer a 
footprint is left on its authentication system (showing that the member of staff has checked 
the customers identity). And a receipt  is retained detailing the payment.
Nationwide provided  records from 6 August 2018, when both Mr G and Nationwide  agree 
a member of its branch  staff did make a payment  to another payee on behalf  of Mr G. 
These records show that customer authentication  took place. And Nationwide has a copy  
of a confirmation slip signed by Mr G when the payment was carried out. Neither  of these 
records exist for the payment made on the 23 August  2018.  I think it likely therefore  that 
the transfer was made using Mr Gs log in details, rather than through customer 
authentication by a staff member.
Mr G clearly recalls  standing on the other side of the counter from the branch advisor who 
he says made the transfer for him. Hes also explained that the advisor initially struggled 
to process the payment and ended  up using the terminal of another  advisor  who was sat 
next to her. Mr G has said too that the advisor who assisted  him experienced some 
problems with her terminal. Weve asked Nationwide about this, but its IT department says 
no problems were reported that day. Im satisfied  therefore that there were no technical 
issues preventing  branch  staff from making  the transfer in the usual way; but Im satisfied 
too that wasnt how it was made.
I must therefore consider whether its more likely that Mr G made the transfer or, as he
recalls, a staff member did so.
Anyone trying to access Mr Gs account  using his online details would need to know his
customer number and memorable data. That would only be available to a staff member if 
Mr G provided  it to them. The member  of staff would  also have needed  to enter  a one-time
passcode generated using Mr Gs card and PIN with a card reader. Mr G hasnt suggested
that he provided any of this information to enable a staff member  to log into his account. 
Had a staff member asked for this information,  I think  Mr G might  have regarded it as a 
Ref: DRN76989723rather unusual request and recalled it. Its likely  too that other staff members  might have 
queried it.
Its possible that Mr G used  the customer terminal in the branch and that branch staff
assisted him with that. I dont however think its very likely that any assistance  would have
involved keying in details  or actually making the transfer. That would have required Mr G 
to divulge his security information  (in breach of the account terms) and the advisor asking 
for that information  (in breach of staff rules). In effect, it would have meant a staff member
impersonating him; I think thats unlikely.
Nationwide has also shown us evidence that Mr G has successfully set up and made  
other payments from his online  personal  banking account before, something Mr G has 
confirmed. He had some familiarity with the process,  even if hed recently needed help 
with it.
I know Mr G and Ms R will be very disappointed,  but for the reasons Ive outlined above I 
do think that, on the balance of probabilities, its most likely that Mr G set up and made this
payment himself either  at home or using the customer  terminal  in branch. I appreciate
Nationwide feels the IP address used to make the payment on 23 August 2018  shows it
wasnt made in branch.  But I havent  seen any evidence that I think  is conclusive on this
point.
To be clear Im not suggesting  Mr G and Ms R have deliberately tried to mislead 
Nationwide or our service  here. Indeed, I find Mr Gs recollections to be consistent and 
quite compelling.  But I think given the time that passed between this transaction being 
made and the error being discovered, its likely that his recollection  is inaccurate.
Nationwide's response  when Mr G and Ms R reported the payment had not been 
received
On the 28 December 2018 Mr G checked  his savings account and noticed that the £5,000
payment hadnt  been received. He reported  this to Nationwide.
This service generally takes the view that in these circumstances the institution that sent 
the money should take reasonable steps to recover it - including acting within a 
reasonable time. Because  of an oversight. Nationwide didnt act for some  months.
Mr G is frustrated that the cashier  who then checked  the account details used for the 
transfer told him these  were correct. I can understand  why he and Ms R feel strongly  
about this oversight, and there  is no doubt that Nationwide  made a mistake  here.  
However, I do think Nationwide has reflected the impact of this mistake in the 
compensation its paid to Mr G and Ms R to apologise for not raising  an attempt to recover  
their money as quickly as it could  have done.
Nationwide paid Mr G and Ms R £75 compensation for this error. And I think  this amount 
is reasonable in the circumstances. Our service has made investigations to try and 
establish whether  the money would  have been recoverable had Nationwide raised  an 
attempt to recover the £5,000 as soon as Mr G reported it was missing on 28 December 
2018. We havent been able to firmly establish whether the funds were still in the 
beneficiary account at this time.  But, given at this point over four months had already 
passed since the transfer was made,  I think its unlikely that Nationwides  attempt to 
recover the money would  have  had a different outcome even if it had been made at this 
time.
Mr G and Ms R are understandably disappointed that Nationwide  hasnt  been  able to 
return the money to them. And I understand Mr G was under  the impression that it was 
certain the money would  be returned to their account. In the call Mr G had with Nationwide 
Ref: DRN76989724regarding his complaint the advisor  said that Nationwide was taking steps to find the 
money. I can appreciate  why this might have given  Mr G confidence that the funds  would 
be returned. But I dont  think  this was guaranteed at any stage.
Nationwide has explained to Mr G and Ms R that they can pursue the recovery of their
money by other means, through the courts. I appreciate Mr G and Ms R dont want  to 
have to do this. But I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Nationwide  to reimburse  
them £5,000 from its own pocket here.  I havent  found that the evidence  suggests it was
responsible for the error, or that it would have been  possible for it to recover the money  in
December 2018.
I know Mr G and Ms R feel Nationwide should go to further lengths to help them recover
their money, but unfortunately  there  is nothing more  that I think Nationwide  can 
reasonably do in this situation.
Mr G and Mrs R responded to my provisional  conclusions. In summary, they said:
They hadnt raised the complaint,  Nationwide had. And the complaint  was that 
Nationwide had sent the money to the wrong account.  
The provisional decision  accepted  Nationwides evidence  uncritically  and didnt consider 
the possibility that Nationwide and its staff had lied.
They had assumed all transactions would leave an electronic trail. 
I had concluded that, because staff members shouldnt act in a certain way, it was 
impossible for them to have done  so.  
My provisional conclusions recognised the possibility that a staff member could have 
used Mr Gs log-in  details.
Mr G had not, contrary to what Nationwide said, made extensive use of online banking.
I hadnt had proper regard to the documents sent in response to a data subject access 
request (DSAR).
Nationwide  had claimed that Mr G and Mrs R had admitted making the transfer.  
That Mr G hadnt checked his savings account  to see if the payment had been made 
was an indication that the transfer had been made by bank staff. 
It wasnt clear  why Nationwide had tried to trace the payment, first using Mr Gs actual 
account number and then, the following working day, using the number of the account 
to which the payment had been  made. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my view from 
that set out in my provisional  decision.  
Mr G says that he and Mrs R didnt raise the complaint, but that Nationwide did on their 
behalf. Financial  services providers should  generally record any expression of dissatisfaction  
alleging loss as a complaint and deal with it in line with the regulators rules. I can see why 
Nationwide took the view that this was a complaint about the transfer itself and about its 
efforts to recover the money, and therefore handled it as a complaint. 
Ref: DRN76989725I dont believe that my findings  were the result  of an uncritical acceptance of Nationwides 
case. On the contrary, my provisional  decision discussed at some  length how I reached  the 
findings of fact that I did. For the avoidance  of any doubt, however, I considered very 
carefully the possibility  that Nationwide staff members hadnt told the truth.  
Its not correct that there was no electronic trail of the transfer of funds. There  was, and it 
showed that the payment  had been made using Mr Gs own log-in  details, rather than being 
made from Nationwides branch  system.  What it didnt  show of course  was who physically 
made it the transfer   in simple terms,  who was using the keyboard and mouse.  
Nor did I conclude that, because staff members shouldnt act in a certain way, it was 
impossible for them to do so. I concluded  that it was unlikely  that a staff member had logged  
into Mr Gs and Mrs Rs account using Mr Gs personal log-in  details. I reached that 
conclusion after considering all the relevant evidence  including,  but not limited  to, staff 
rules designed  to prevent that happening.  
Mr G also said he thought  it was misleading  to say that he hadnt  suggested  he gave staff 
information which would have allowed them to log-in  as if they were  him (that is, using his 
security information). He clarified that what  he meant was that he would  have complied with 
any request to provide that information. What he didnt say, however, was that he did in fact 
provide his own security  information  customer number (not the account number); date of 
birth; pass  number and a one-time code  to allow  a staff member to log in the same  way he 
would have done.
I accept that Mr G hadnt made extensive  use of on-line banking,  as Nationwide had 
suggested. My provisional decision said he had some familiarity with the process, but also 
noted that hed needed help with it. 
As far as the DSAR  documents  are concerned, Mr G provided us with a summary of what 
they showed. He was invited to send in any further  documents if he wanted  to, but didnt do 
so. Its quite possible that the information sent in response to the DSAR  includes documents  
I havent seen,  not least  because it will include documents unrelated to this complaint. It is 
however for this service to decide  what evidence is required in any particular case, and Im 
satisfied that the evidence  provided by both parties allows  me to determine the complaint on 
the basis of what  I consider to be fair and reasonable  as the law and our rules require. 
I note what Mr G says about his and Mrs Rs alleged admission of having made the transfer. 
I accept they didnt make such  an admission. But the key issue here isnt whether they made 
an admission; its whether  they (or more specifically  Mr G) made the transfer.  
I note too what Mr G says about  checking  his savings account. He says this is evidence  that 
a staff member made the transfer, because that gave him confidence that it had been made 
correctly. I dont regard  that as particularly persuasive, however, especially  given  the 
problems he described  with the transfer.  
Finally, Mr G has questioned why Nationwide tried to trace the payment using two different 
numbers for the receiving  account. A trace is, in effect, a request to the receiving institution 
to look into a payment.  Nationwide  first provided  the account number Mr G had provided  
that is, the correct  number  for his savings  account.  When it became apparent that no 
payment had been made to that account,  Nationwide would have  asked the receiving bank 
to check the account  number  that had actually been  used. The fact that it checked both 
account numbers  doesnt therefore  show that Nationwide  at any point until then knew  or 
Ref: DRN76989726should have known there was a discrepancy  between Mr Gs actual account number and the 
one used in the transfer.
In conclusion, therefore, Im satisfied  that the payment was made  using Mr Gs online log-in 
and that, on balance, it was most likely that he was the person who carried  out the 
transaction. I dont  believe that any error  on the part of Nationwide  caused  the payment to 
reach the wrong destination.   
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  my final decision is 
that I dont  require Nationwide Building Society to do any more  to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Mike Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7698972