K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1996. The policy covered Mrs S only. Mr and Mrs S say HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, HSBC had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs S say they werent made aware the PPI was optional.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr and Mrs S havent given us 
much detail about what happened. And HSBC hasnt been  able to send us any evidence 
from the sale showing Mr and Mrs S chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that 
has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that HSBC made Mr and Mrs S think they had to 
have the PPI. So I think its likely it made  it clear  to them that they had a choice about it. And 
that Mr and Mrs S chose to take the PPI, knowing they didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that HSBC gave Mr and Mrs S any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to them. This means HSBC  didnt have to 
check if it was right for Mr and Mrs S. But it did have to make sure they got the information 
they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mrs S wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
The policy couldve  paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs S have told us she wouldve  
received sick pay. And it wouldve meant  they didnt need to rely on their savings  to make 
their mortgage repayments if Mrs S wasnt earning.  So it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Ss property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs S off taking it out.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN72567922But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7256792