K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Zurich Assurance  Ltd mis-sold her a Free Standing  Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan.
Mrs F is represented  by a third party. For ease  of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as 
made by Mrs F. 
background
Mrs F met with one of Zurichs representatives in 1998. The fact find completed at the time 
recorded that Mrs F:
 was 32 years old;
 employed as a teacher, earning  around  £12,000  per year;
 had been a member  of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) since September  1997, 
with a normal retirement age of 60.
Zurich recommended Mrs F take out an FSAVC. Her monthly contributions  were  £30 per 
month, increasing by 5% each year. Mrs F stopped making payments to her FSAVC in 
December 2003.
Mrs F complained to Zurich in 2018  about  the way her FSAVC was sold. She said the advice 
she received was unsuitable and she wasnt given enough information  about the in-house 
options available to her to make an informed choice about the FSAVC.   
Zurich didnt uphold  Mrs Fs complaint. In its final response,  it said the fact find its adviser  
completed included  details of the Additional  Voluntary  Contribution  (AVC) scheme 
arrangements that may be available to Mrs F through her membership of the TPS, including  
the option of purchasing added years. And Mrs F signed the fact find to confirm  shed read 
the document and the information provided  was accurate and complete.
Zurich said it also gave  Mrs F a booklet,  which said most members of a final salary 
occupational salary scheme will not receive  the maximum benefits available.  It said:
 You may be able to fill the shortfall by making personal contributions to a pension plan. 
Two methods are available to you:
Make  payments to an Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) scheme  set up by 
your employer  alongside the occupational scheme.  This type of arrangement is 
called an in house AVC scheme;  ask your employer for details.
The booklet  went  on to outline the main benefits and features of its FSAVC and an in-
house AVC scheme.  The booklet said:
Your employer may have  agreed  enhanced terms with the insurance company [that 
provides the in-house AVC], in the form of reduced charges. This may mean  that the 
charges levied on contributions to an in-house AVC are lower than those charged under 
[Zurichs FSAVC], particularly in the early years, although over the life of the plan these 
may even  out.
Ref: DRN70841172Zurich said its advisers  notes state that Mrs F will be changing her position so she prefers 
to take out a FSAVC. So Zurich was satisfied its full documentation was provided to Mrs F 
and its recommendation  to take out a FSAVC was suitable. 
Mrs F disagreed, so referred her complaint to our service  to review.
Our investigator thought Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.  He couldnt see there was a 
clear discussion  which explained  clearly the FSAVCs charges and her in-house  options, or 
that the benefits of the FSAVC were unlikely to outweigh the additional charges incurred 
compared to an in-house AVC.  He also noted Mrs F could well be changing  her position, 
but there was nothing  to say she was planning  on leaving the teaching profession, so our 
investigator didnt  think  this was enough to say the benefits of the FSAVC outweighed  the 
charges. 
Our investigator thought Mrs F wouldve chosen to contribute to her employers in-house 
AVC scheme if shed been given clearer information about the FSAVC. And he thought it 
was unlikely Mrs F couldve afforded  to buy the maximum number of added years. He said it 
was likely the AVC option would have  looked more attractive as it was expected  to grow 
more than the benefits added years would provide. An AVC also provided  the flexibility to 
stop making payments, as Mrs F did in 2003.  
Mrs F accepted our investigators  recommendation, but Zurich  did not. It said it met the 
regulators obligations. It said its fact find showed  that it drew  Mrs Fs attention to her 
employers in-house  options and discussed  the differences between a FSAVC and in-house 
options in generic terms. Its booklet set out the benefits of the FSAVC  and those typically  
available from in-house schemes. And it directed Mrs F to her employer for more  information 
about the in-house options. It wasnt necessary to undertake a full comparison of the FSAVC 
and Mrs Fs in-house options. Zurich  also said Mrs F may have remained in the teaching 
profession but not in a role that meant she was an eligible member of the TPS throughout. 
Zurich also said Mrs F may have left the country  after taking out the FSAVC.
Our investigator told Zurich he expected to see clear  evidence of a discussion around the 
charges and why the FSAVC was more  suitable  given its charges were  higher. He said the 
notes were generic  and unclear, and the booklet was insufficient evidence that a discussion 
took place. Our investigator said that whilst Mrs F could well change her position,  there  
was insufficient  evidence that Mrs F wanted  to take on the FSAVCs higher charges to obtain 
its benefits. Zurich disagreed, so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In May 1996, the Personal Investment Authority (the PIA - a predecessor of the FCA) set out 
in a regulatory update  that tied advisers  should:
draw a customers attention to the in-house AVC scheme
discuss the differences  between the FSAVC  plan and the in-house AVC in 
generic terms, including the likely  lower charges  of in-house AVC schemes
direct  the customer to their employer  or occupational pension scheme trustees  
for further information about the in-house  AVC option
Ref: DRN70841173Im satisfied Zurichs  adviser did point out that AVCs and the added  years option were  
available. And Zurich directed Mrs F to her employer if she wanted more  information about 
its in-house AVC.
However, Im not satisfied  from what was recorded  that there was a discussion  about the 
likely lower charges of in-house AVC schemes. 
The advisers notes  say I have  discussed  the alternatives with Miss F to doing a FSAVC   
against in house ie, confidentiality, portability + money purchase scheme [sic] Miss F says 
she could well be changing her position  and prefers to take out a FSAVC. This shows the 
confidentiality and portability of the FSAVC  was discussed  but the difference  in charges 
isnt mentioned in the advisers notes.  So, I dont think theres  sufficient evidence  for me to 
conclude there was a discussion about the difference in charges. 
I dont think the booklet  Zurich provided demonstrates it explained  charges  under  in-house 
AVCs will usually be lower than those  under  FSAVCs. The booklet said the arrangements an 
employer may have agreed, may  mean  that the charges applied to an in-house AVC are 
lower than those applied to Zurichs FSAVC. This explanation goes on to say the costs of an 
in-house AVC and Zurichs FSAVC may even out over the life of the plan. So, the booklet 
says there  may be no difference  between the costs  of an in-house AVC and Zurichs FSAVC 
over the life of the plan. I dont think the booklet or the fact find show  Zurichs adviser met 
the regulatory requirements to discuss the likely lower charges of in-house AVC schemes.
Ive decided that Zurich hasnt demonstrated  it discussed with Mrs F the likely  difference in 
costs between the FSAVC and her employers in-house AVC.  So, Ive gone  on to consider 
whether I think Mrs F would have still bought her FSAVC if shed been made aware of this. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs F would still have chosen to incur the (probable) higher  charges  
involved in the FSAVC. If the adviser had explained  that her employers in-house AVC was 
likely to provide better value for money, then I think its reasonable to assume  that Mrs F 
would likely  have chosen to take advantage of that option. 
Ive considered Zurichs  argument that Mrs F preferred to take out a FSAVC because  she 
may well change her position. I dont think this suggests Mrs F was likely, or had plans, to 
change to a job that would mean she was no longer eligible to continue as a member of the 
TPS. I dont think its likely Mrs F wouldve opted  to go ahead  with the FSAVC if shed been 
made aware  that her employers in-house  AVC was likely to provide better value for money.
I agree  with our investigator  for the same  reasons  that its unlikely Mrs F wouldve opted 
to buy added years from her employers in-house scheme instead of contributing to its AVC.  
Its likely  the cost of buying the maximum available number of added  years would likely have 
been greater than the cost of contributions to the AVC.  And at the time it would  probably  
have been shown that the projected  benefits from AVCs would be greater than the benefits  
of purchasing added years. So, its difficult to say now that Mrs F would likely have 
considered added years the cost effective or affordable option. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  Im not persuaded the advice  to take out the FSAVC 
was suitable. I think  Mrs F would have contributed to her employers in-house AVC if shed 
been given clearer  information at the time she bought  her FSAVC.
Ref: DRN70841174putting things right
Zurich should  undertake  a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 
1 January 2005, Zurich should  use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 
1 January 2005 and the FTSE  UK Private Investor  Growth Total Return Index  thereafter.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this. However, if Mrs Fs likely  income tax rate in retirement will be 40%, 
Zurich is entitled  to make a notional deduction of 30% from the overall  loss to reflect this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7084117