K821x#15complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans MYJAR  provided to Mr L between  January 2017 
and August 2018. Mr L borrowed  amounts  ranging  between £300 and £1,250 to be repaid in 
instalments over 3, 6, 12 or 24 months. Mr L regularly repaid his loans early  and then 
borrowed again shortly  afterwards. There were no significant breaks in the lending and the 
loans didnt overlap. From  what I can see, an amount remains  outstanding for loan six. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. MYJAR  disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN70227882Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr L for information about his income and expenditure and it carried  out credit 
checks. Mr L said his monthly  income was between £1,100  and £1,200. He said his monthly 
outgoings were  between £536 and £736. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr L provided or the information  
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr L was saying. So I cant say that it was wrong for MYJAR to have provided  
loans one to three.
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four Mr L had shown  signs  that he had struggled to 
repay his previous loans with MYJAR:
Loan two was taken out a week after loan one was repaid;
Before loan three was approved, Mr L applied for two loans after loan two suggesting 
that he needed the loans  to meet his expenses;
Mr L repaid loan three and then asked for loan four two weeks  later;
The amounts  Mr L borrowed increased with each new loan suggesting  that the 
repayments were leaving  a shortfall  in Mr Ls income.
So I think that by loan four there  was a significant  risk that Mr L would be unable  to 
sustainably repay  this loan, or any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  by loan six, the pattern of lending suggested that Mr L had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term lending:
Ref: DRN70227883Mr L was provided with a new loan within days or weeks  of settling a previous one. So 
MYJAR ought to have  realised  it was more likely than not Mr L was having  to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  his/her previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed MYJAR. Loan six was taken  
out 20 months after Mr Ls first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr L had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr L lost out because MYJAR continued  to provide borrowing for loan six 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ls ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to six and I think MYJAR should put things 
right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans four to six and waive any outstanding; 
this refund should be offset against the principal still owed for loan six and the remainder 
paid to Mr L; or, if a balance remains outstanding, an affordable repayment plan should 
be agreed to clear this;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Ls credit file;
the pattern  of lending by loan six means  any information recorded  about it is adverse. So 
all entries about  loan six should  be removed  from Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ls complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7022788