K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr M have  complained that Quick-Sure Insurance Limited unfairly increased 
their motor insurance premium.
Mr M is a named driver  on Miss Ms policy. As Miss M is the principal policyholder I will refer 
to the actions and comments  of both Miss M and Mr M as being Miss Ms.
background
Miss M took out a policy when she was a provisional  licence holder for a premium of roughly 
£572. She passed her test and let Quick-Sure know. It charged  her around £835 to cover her 
for the remaining seven  weeks  or so of her policy.
Miss M paid the additional premium but didn't think it was fair; so she brought her complaint 
to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Quick-Sure had acted  unreasonably. Miss M didn't agree 
so her complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Given the dramatic increase in premium after she passed her test I can understand why 
Miss M didn't think Quick-Sure had dealt  with her fairly. But the size of the premium  increase 
doesn't by itself mean that Quick-Sure  has been unfair.
Its important that I make  clear that were not the industry regulator.  So its not my role to say 
how much  an insurer  should charge, what  factors  it should assess,  or how much risk to 
attach to each  of those  factors when deciding  on a premium. Insurance  is essentially an 
assessment of risk. And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly, 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Miss Ms policy is clear she needed to tell Quick-Sure about changes  in circumstances and 
that included changes in licence details.  And the policy says that such changes  might result 
in a reassessed premium.  I think thats  reasonable. Insurance is essentially an assessment 
of risk and the likelihood that an insurer will have  to pay out on those risks. And most 
insurers Im aware of will consider a provisional driver passing their test as being  a 
significant change  in risk. Thats because the driver moves from only driving  under 
supervision to driving unaccompanied and often with very little in the way of driving 
experience. So I think its reasonable  that insurers will wish to charge an amended  premium  
that reflects that significant  change  in risk. 
When deciding how much to charge for their policies,  whether at the outset or when a 
change happens  during  its term, insurers will make an assessment of how likely  it is that 
their policyholders will make a claim and how much  they might have to pay out for those. 
And each  insurer will go about  that in its own way. So, when deciding  if an insurer  has dealt 
with a consumer  fairly,  I look to see if its treated  them the same as it would other consumers 
with similar  circumstances.
Ref: DRN70903172Quick-Sure has provided us with information  about  how it calculated  Miss Ms premiums.  
That information is commercially sensitive so I cant share it with her. Ive looked at its 
calculations carefully;  Ive noted that it only applied the increased premium  on a pro rata 
basis. And I think its treated Miss M in the same way that it would other customers in similar 
circumstances. So, even  though the rise in her premium was substantial, I think  its treated  
her reasonably.
Miss Ms said that before she took out her policy other  insurers  had told her that, once she 
passed her test, her premium might double. And she would  have found  such  an increase in 
premium acceptable.  But its up to each insurer to decide for itself what risks it wishes to 
cover and what premium it wishes to charge for doing so. Thats  essentially a matter of 
commercial judgment,  and its not something  we would think it was fair to interfere with. So 
the fact that one insurer may consider a change of risk, and therefore  the premium,  to be 
less significant  than another, doesn't mean that either insurer is acting unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7090317