K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2005. Mr A says Northern  Bank Limited  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Northern Bank had to make  it clear to Mr A that he had a choice about 
it. But Mr A says he was led to believe the PPI was compulsory.
Northern Bank hasnt been able to send us a copy of Mr As application form for the loan. 
But it has sent us a sample of what it says the application form wouldve looked like. And this 
includes a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes  to be ticked to show  whether the 
customer wants to take it out.
Northern Bank has also sent us a sample of what it says Mr As loan agreement wouldve 
looked like. And this sets out the cost of the loan both with and without PPI, and has a box to 
be ticked and a space  for the customer to sign to say they want  to take out the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Northern Bank did make it clear  to Mr A 
that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr A chose to take it, knowing he didnt have 
to.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, hes told us he wouldnt have received any sick pay and didnt have any savings or 
other means  he couldve used to make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
Mr A has said he was self-employed when the policy was sold.  But the policy still provided 
cover for self-employed people. And it didnt make it significantly more  difficult  for them to 
claim, than for employed people. So I still think it was right for him.
As well as checking it was right for him, Northern Bank had to give Mr A clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave him wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But, for the same reasons  I think it was right for him, it seems  like the PPI would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr A off taking it out.
Mr A has said he wasnt told that he wouldnt get a proportionate refund of the PPI premium  
if he cancelled the loan early. But I havent  seen any suggestion that Mr A thought he might 
cancel the loan early  when  he was taking it out. And, based on the length  of the loan and 
what it appears Mr A was going to use the funds  for, I think it was flexible enough  for him. So 
I dont think better information  about  this would have put him off taking the PPI out either.
Ref: DRN72188582Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about  that. Because Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Mr A, that was unfair.
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7218858