K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains, with the help of a representative,  that HDIFA an appointed representative 
of Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited  (FSML) gave her unsuitable advice to transfer  her 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits and personal pensions  to a SIPP to invest  in 
Whitesands Brazilian  Project  (Whitesands)  an unregulated investment.
background
FSML recommended  that Miss D transfer her OPS and personal pensions to a SIPP, the 
purpose of which  was to invest  in Whitesands in 2012. 
I sent my provisional decision to Miss D and FSML explaining why I thought this complaint 
should be upheld  on 19 March 2019. That decision is attached and forms part of this 
decision. The background to the complaint is set out in detail in that decision,  so I have not 
repeated it here. 
Miss D accepted the decision. 
FSML disagreed, in summary it said: 
HDIFA did not become an appointed representative of FSML until 31 August 2012.  
Prior to that Miss D had been  a client of HDIFAs previous  network.  The pension 
transfer questionnaire  was completed  and signed by Miss D on 23 August 2012, 
before HDIFA had become an appointed representative of FSML. So, it could  not 
have monitored  the questionnaire prepared by HDIFA or Miss Ds responses.  This 
responsibility remained with HDIFAs former  principle. 
It was made clear that HDIFA would not be advising on the underlying  investments 
as advice on this had already been  provided  by another  adviser. Miss D signed and 
returned the engagement  letter   prior to HDIFA becoming an appointed 
representative of FSML   confirming  she understood this. 
The original financial advisers advised  her to transfer her pensions  to a SIPP to 
invest in Whitesands  but it did not have the right permissions to arrange  the transfer 
and recommended HDIFA for this purpose. By the time Miss D became the client  of 
HDIFA she had already decided to transfer her pensions to a SIPP to be invested in 
Whitesands. 
The suitability report highlighted the risks associated with Whitesands,  specifically  
that it was not advisable "to put all your eggs  in one basket. We would suggest that 
you consider carefully whether you should place the entire fund into any one 
investment, irrespective of the actual asset  under consideration". Miss D ignored this 
clear warning  and followed the advice of her previous adviser,  there is nothing more  
that HDIFA could have done and FSML  should not be punished for Miss Ds choices. 
In other  cases we have directed such complaints to the relevant former adviser and 
should do so in this case. 
It seems  the reason  that HDIFA recommended a SIPP  was because Miss D was so 
keen to invest in Whitesands, the disadvantages  of having a SIPP were highlighted in 
the suitability report. 
Miss D signed the report  to confirm she understood  this, again, there is nothing more  
that HDIFA could have done and FSML  should not be punished for Miss Ds 
decision. 
In any case, HDIFAs principal at the time of the preparation and signing of the 
suitability report was a different business.  
Ref: DRN70149682The SIPP provider failed to undertake  sufficient  due diligence on Whitesands prior to 
the investment  being made  and it should be held responsible  for this. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached this complaint has been passed  back to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  whilst  I have taken everything submitted by both 
parties into account, my decision  focuses  on what I consider to be the central issues. The 
purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings and reasons for reaching  them. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments. 
I have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed these in turn. As I have 
explained above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision  a 
number of the arguments raised by FSML in response to my provisional  decision cover 
issues that I have  already  considered and addressed within that decision, so I have not 
repeated my findings in respect of all of these at length again. 
FSML has suggested that the approach taken in this case  is inconsistent with the approach 
we have taken  on other  similar cases. I cannot comment  on the individual  merits of other  
cases within this decision. I have taken into account FSMLs comments and I am satisfied 
that the conclusions I have  reached are fair and reasonable  in light of the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. 
FSMLs responsibility for the advice  
In accordance with FSMLs submissions HDIFA did not become an appointed representative 
of it until 31 August 2012  this aligns with the information recorded on the FCA register.  
Miss D completed the pension questionnaire  before that date and FSML has suggested  that 
she was actually the client of a different business. 
On 28 August 2012, HDIFA wrote to Miss D asking her to sign a new letter  of engagement 
because  in accordance  with the letter  it had a new principal,  namely FSML. The footer 
on the documentation also refers to FSML as HDIFAs  principal; this appears to have been 
dated 22 August  2012. 
The letter also describes  HDIFAs  role and next steps, including:  
Ref: DRN70149683We will undertake the data gathering research and analysis. We shall then prepare  a 
formal report with regard  to the advice,  which we will then supply to you. This report 
will set-out the recommendations with regard to transferring the benefits and if 
appropriate details  of our recommended provider. If you are in agreement with the 
recommendations and they meet your wants and needs, you will need  to complete 
further documentation to enable the transfer  to actually  proceed.
The TVAS  was prepared  on 5 October  2012  and the suitability report  was dated on 
8 October 2012, this also named FSML as the relevant principal. 
Taking all of this into account,  whilst Miss D may have originally been  referred  to HDIFA 
when it was an AR of a different network,  the paperwork indicates  that she became a client  
of HDIFA acting as an AR of FSML.  Ultimately,  I think  it is clear that HDIFA advised Miss D 
to transfer her pensions  to a SIPP in order to invest in Whitesands  whilst acting in the 
capacity of AR of FSML. 
Role of the investment adviser 
FSML has argued that the adviser who referred  Miss D to it gave her investment advice in 
respect of the Whitesands investment and that it was on that basis  it recommended the 
transfer. As I set out in my provisional  decision the evidence  from the time of the sale 
indicates that Miss D was introduced to Whitesands  by an unregulated introducer.  
The letters sent to Miss D state that she was then referred to an adviser for pension transfer 
advice but had to be referred on to FSML because the original adviser didnt have the 
requisite permissions. 
The correspondence exchanged in the background points to the referral to FSML coming 
directly from the unregulated introducer  and the original adviser only nominally being 
involved as part of the process in this instance. Even  if that is not the case,  I have not seen 
any evidence that the original adviser provided Miss D with regulated investment advice in 
respect of Whitesands. 
In the suitability report FSML sent to Miss D it said: 
A detailed explanation of this proposal  and reasons for using that provider, [name of 
SIPP provider], is also included in this report. In relation to the underlying investment 
advice, you have advised us that, following your discussions with [name of 
unregulated introducers  agent], you have decided  to invest  in the Whitesands 
Brazilian Project.  You have not sought any advice from HDIFA or [name of the 
original investment adviser]  in relation to that underlying investment and we have not 
provided any guidance in that respect.
In the letter  in which the original adviser confirmed that it had referred Miss D to FSML, there 
was a declaration  which  she signed,  this said: 
I understand that [name of adviser]  is not involved with, or responsible  for the advice 
given around your pension transfer,  nor are [name  of adviser] advising or making any 
recommendations as to the Underlying  investments
Overall and in light of the evidence referred  to above, I am not persuaded that the original 
adviser did give Miss D investment advice or that it was on that basis that FSML advised  
Ref: DRN70149684her. In turn, I dont  think that the complaint should  be directed to the original adviser or that 
its involvement limits FSMLs responsibility  for the advice. Its clear  that FSML  gave  the 
advice to transfer and was responsible for ensuring  its suitability. 
Suitability of the advice 
FSML recommended  that Miss D transfer her OPS benefits and personal pension  plans  to a 
SIPP, the purpose of which was to invest in a single unregulated  esoteric investment  
Whitesands. It did not advise on the underlying  investment or, based  on what Ive seen, 
assess the suitability  of such an investment strategy  for Miss D taking into account her 
circumstances. 
In order to fulfil its duties and give suitable advice, in this instance, FSML had to take into 
account the overall transaction including the source of the funds and the intended  underlying 
investment. FSML failed  to do this and the advice that it did give was unsuitable. Particularly 
when taking into account that £64,000 of the £95,000 transferred came from an OPS, the 
transfer of which resulted  in Miss D losing valuable  guaranteed  benefits  and, that from the 
point of transfer the pensions were subject to higher  charges and level of risk. 
If FSML had taken the overall transaction into account, it ought to have unequivocally 
advised against Miss D transferring her OPS  benefits and personal pension  plans into a 
SIPP under the circumstances. I am not persuaded that Miss D was genuinely a high risk 
investor with the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved with the 
transaction or the capacity  for loss to bear these. 
Causation
I do not doubt that when Miss D was referred to FSML it is most likely that she thought 
moving her pensions to a SIPP  to invest in Whitesands was a good idea  and as such  was 
keen on going  ahead  with the transaction  based  on what she had been told up until that 
point. A lot of this information most likely  came  from the unregulated introducer  the 
involvement of whom FSML was aware. This did not take away  or otherwise  negate   
FSMLs duty of care and obligation  to give suitable  advice. 
To the contrary,  under the circumstances, this made  it even more  important for FSML to give 
clear and comprehensive advice, which should  have been for Miss D to retain her OPS  
benefits and consolidate the relevant  personal pension plans in a suitable and low cost 
alternative, such as a stakeholder plan.
I am satisfied that if FSML had clearly  advised  against transferring to a SIPP  in order to 
invest in Whitesands,  it is more likely than not that Miss D would have listened to this and 
followed its advice. 
In turn, I dont think that Miss D would  have ended up in a SIPP invested in Whitesands  if 
FSML had done  what I have found it ought to have  and so, that it is fair and reasonable for 
FSML to compensate  Miss D for her losses in full despite the involvement of other parties, 
including the SIPP provider as she would never have ended up at its door, so to speak. 
fair compensation
Miss D should be put as closely as possible to the position she would  likely  now be in if she 
had not been given  unsuitable advice. As I have explained above,  I think  that Miss D ought 
Ref: DRN70149685to have been told that transferring to a SIPP was not suitable for her  and, I think  that if she 
had been given suitable advice she would have listened to this.
I have split the redress methodology into two main  parts one covering the OPS transfer and 
the other the three  personal pension switches. 
Due to the nature of the loss calculations both, in essence, involve comparing what  Miss D 
would have had if suitable advice had been given with what  she actually has in her SIPP. It 
would not be fair for the actual value of the SIPP established (including  any amount added  
for the purchase  of the illiquid investment, if applicable) to be deducted in full twice. So, the 
amount deducted/used  for comparison under each calculation should  be proportionate to the 
share of the original  value of the SIPP that the OPS transfer and personal pension plans 
respectively represented.
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for the business to put Miss D, as far as possible, into the position she would now 
be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
OPS benefits
FSML must  undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Miss Ds acceptance of the decision.
FSML may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ds pension  plan. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to 
Miss D within  90 days  of the date FSML receives notification  of her acceptance of my 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes FSML  to pay Miss D this compensation.
Ref: DRN70149686Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment held within it. I think it would be best 
if the investment  could  be removed from the SIPP. Miss D would then be able to close the 
SIPP, if she wishes. That would then allow her to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. The 
valuation of the relevant investment may prove difficult, as there  is no market for it. For 
calculating compensation, the business  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of 
the investment.
If the business is unable, or if there  are any difficulties, in buying  Miss Ds illiquid 
investments, it should give the holding a nil value for the purposes  of calculating 
compensation. In this instance the business may ask Miss D to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment  the SIPP may receive  from the relevant 
holding. That undertaking should allow  for the effect  of any tax and charges  on the amount
Miss D may receive from the investment and any eventual sums.
the personal pensions
I take the view that Miss D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Miss D's circumstances  and objectives when she invested.  
what should  FSML do?
To compensate Miss D fairly,  FSML must:
Compare the performance of Miss D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
FSML should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, FSML  should pay into Miss D's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If FSML is unable to pay the total amount into Miss D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Miss D's actual  or expected  
Ref: DRN70149687marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Miss D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss D would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If FSML deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Miss D how much has been taken off. FSML should give Miss D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The total 
value  of all 
of the 
personal 
pensions 
transferred  
into the 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. FSML should  take ownership  of the illiquid  
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If FSML is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  value  should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. FSML may require  that Miss D provides an undertaking to pay 
FSML any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. FSML  will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  FSML should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Ref: DRN70149688Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if FSML totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Miss D wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Miss D's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Miss D into that position. It does not mean  that Miss 
D would  have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind 
of index tracker  investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Miss D could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Miss D to the SIPP
Had the business done what  I have  concluded it ought to have  done  then I do not think  there 
would be a SIPP. It is not fair that Miss D continues  to pay the annual SIPP fees if that SIPP 
cannot be closed.
Ideally the business would take over the illiquid  holding to allow the SIPP to be closed. This 
is the fairest way of putting  Miss D back in the position she would  have been  in. However, 
third parties are involved  and we do not have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, if the SIPP cannot  be closed now, I think  it is fair that the business  
pay Miss D an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth  of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the most recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number  of ways they may want to seek to 
achieve that. It will also provide Miss D with some confidence that she will not be subject to 
further fees.
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused to Miss D
FSML should pay to Miss D £500  compensation for the significant  distress and 
inconvenience caused by the loss of her pension  funds.
Ref: DRN70149689determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Financial 
Solutions Midhurst Limited pay the balance.
determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that Financial  Solutions Midhurst  Limited should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress  and/or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance as set out above.
If Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited  does  not pay the recommended  amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Miss D. This is until any future  benefit  that 
she may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Financial 
Solutions Midhurst Limited (excluding  any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited  may request an undertaking from Miss D that she 
repays to Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited  any amount Miss D may receive from the 
investment thereafter.
Miss D should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension  plan so she 
may have  to realise  other  assets in order to meet the undertaking.
recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Financial  Solutions Midhurst Limited pays  Miss D the balance.  I further  
recommend interest  to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited  to pay Miss D 
from the date it receives notification of her acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
If Miss D accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Financial Solutions
Midhurst Limited. My recommendation is not binding  on Financial Solutions Midhurst 
Limited.
Further, its unlikely that Miss D can accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to her after the money award has been  paid.  Miss D 
may want to consider  getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Financial Solutions
Midhurst Limited to compensate Miss D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Ref: DRN701496810Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss D complains,  with the help of a representative, that HDIFA  an appointed representative  of 
Financial Solutions  Midhurst Limited (both referred to hereinafter as FSML) gave her unsuitable 
advice to transfer her Occupational Pension Scheme  (OPS) benefits and personal pensions to a SIPP 
to invest  in Whitesands  Brazilian Project (Whitesands)  an unregulated investment.
background
Miss D was referred to FSML and on 28 August 2012 it issued a letter explaining:
Ref: DRN701496811We understand that you recently met with [name of agent] of Viceroy Jones  Ltd (your agent) 
and have decided that you wish to make a specific investment. As [name of agent] would 
have explained, he cannot arrange the consolidation  of your existing pensions  to facilitate the 
said purchase. He has therefore introduced you to [name of adviser] of [name of advisory 
business] who we understand  has recently contacted you.
[Name of adviser] of [name of advisory business] has referred this particular piece of business 
to us to arrange. This is because their firm [name of advisory business] does not have the 
appropriate Financial Services Authority  permissions  to undertake transfers from 
Occupational Pension arrangements.
And
We will undertake the data gathering research and analysis. We shall then prepare  a formal  
report with regard  to the advice, which we will then supply to you. This report will set-out the 
recommendations with regard to transferring the benefits  and if appropriate details of our 
recommended provider.  If you are in agreement with the recommendations and they meet 
your wants and needs, you will need to complete further documentation to enable the transfer 
to actually proceed.
In relation to the underlying investments we understand that you have already decided where 
you wish to invest  your pension fund monies. You have  already satisfied yourself  that this 
investment is suitable for your needs  and are not seeking any further input from ourselves. 
Therefore the handling of these transactions will not be dealt with by HDIFA.
Prior to this, on 23 August 2012, a pension  transfer questionnaire was completed,  part of the form 
required free form answers and part provided options/statements and the appropriate one had to be 
selected.
Miss Ds circumstances,  in so far as relevant, were  recorded  as:
Divorced
In good health
One child  not dependant
Employed with a salary  of £37,000
Current employer provides a pension scheme (no details provided)
Desired retirement date of 65
Average disposable income after expenses of £1,000 per month
The form then covers the details  of the OPS and three personal pensions  that were subsequently 
transferred.
In the following section Miss D circled relevant pre-written answers to questions, such  as:
How important  to your overall retirement planning  is the pension  benefit under discussion?
In response Miss D circled  An insignificant part of my overall pension  benefits and qualified 
this within the comment section as meaning Current pensions are not a significant  portion  of 
my estate.
Which of the following statements most accurately  reflects your views in relation to when you 
intend to retire?
In response to this Miss D circled  I do not think that I will be able to afford to retire early. 
However, I would like to keep my options open in case  my circumstances  change  in the 
future.
Ref: DRN701496812Which of the following statements most accurately  reflects your views with regard to the 
security of existing benefits?
In response to this Miss D circled  I wish to take action to ensure  that my pension fund is 
removed from the control of my previous  employer.
Please tick all of the following statements which reflect your reasons for considering a 
transfer:
Miss D circled all of the following:
oI wish to make a specific investment, which  is not possible  via my current plan
oI am disappointed with the level of service and ease of attainment of information  from 
the current scheme administrators
oI would like to consolidate my pension  benefits
oI wish to break all ties with my ex-employer
The form goes on to probe Miss Ds attitude  to investment risk, within  this section Miss D confirms, 
amongst other things that:
She had a high level of understanding  or knowledge;
Her main  savings and investment goals were  longer term growth;
She was not concerned  about drops in value as she expected  to recover any falls;
On a scale from very concerned about taking financial risks in comparison to others to very 
confident, she was confident
On a scale from strongly agree that she was more concerned that her investment  grew faster  
than inflation than she was about returns over any one year period to strongly  disagree, she 
agreed.
On 8 October 2012, FSML issued a suitability  report. This said:
Recommended Action
Transfer the funds relating  to your benefits in the [name of OPS], plus the [name of personal  
pension provider], [name of personal pension provider]  and [name of personal  pension 
provider] to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with [name of SIPP provider],  which  they 
market as an 'Open Pension'.
A detailed  explanation of this proposal  and reasons for using that provider,  [name of SIPP 
provider], is also included in this report. In relation to the underlying investment advice, you 
have advised us that, following your discussions with [name of unregulated introducer],  you 
have decided  to invest in the Whitesands  Brazilian  Project. You have not sought any advice 
from HDIFA or [name of other  advisory  firm which referred the business to HDIFA] in relation 
to that underlying investment and we have not provided  any guidance in that respect.
And
Reasons for this Recommendation
The reasons for this recommendation are that the transfer  will enable  you to:
Increase the allowable tax free cash,
Undertake the specific investment you have chosen in the Whitesands Brazilian  Project. 
Neither we nor [name of other advisory firm which referred the business to HDIFA] have 
offered you any advice  in relation  to this investment,
Increase the potential  lump sum death benefits,
Ref: DRN701496813Draw benefits  as and when  you wish, depending on your future  requirements.
Consolidate your benefits from [name of OPS] with those arising  from your three existing 
Personal Pensions.
The report also refers to the Transfer Value Analysis  report  that FSML  prepared, in respect of this it 
says:
The Critical Yield  required  to match benefits at the scheme Normal  Retirement Age of 60 is 
11.2% per annum.
And
The Critical Yield  figure of 11.2% per annum calculated  within the TVAS is low and as such  
suggests the scheme have granted a reasonable  transfer value.
Transfers in and investments made 
1)Personal pension  - £4,010.04
2)Personal pension  - £12,752.94
3)Personal pension  - £14,288.99
4)OPS benefits - £63,769.41
On 18 January 2013, £86,118.00 was invested in Whitesands.
the complaint
In 2016, Miss D complained  with the help of a representative, in summary she said:
The SIPP  was not suitable
The funds were mis-used
FSML failed  to undertake due diligence  in respect of the unregulated  introducer  and the 
unregulated investment
The pension  was invested in a single  high risk and speculative investment
FSML did not uphold Miss Ds complaint. Unhappy with its response, Miss D referred  her complaint to 
this service.
our investigation
During the course of our investigation we asked Miss D for details of her circumstances at the time of 
advice and her recollections of the sale. In respect of her circumstances at the time of the advice Miss 
D said:
She was employed full-time earning  approximately £25,800
She did not have any other income
No financial dependants
She was diabetic and suffered from high blood pressure
She was willing to take a very minimal amount of risk
She did want to consolidate her pensions  to make  things easier for her family should  anything 
happen to her
The adviser  (representative of unregulated introducer [name of unregulated introducer])  
recommended Whitesands  and she trusted him
Her home is worth  approximately £400,000
She had no savings  at the time but now has an ISA with about £1,200
She had no pension other than her current OPS and the pensions that were transferred at the 
time of advice
Ref: DRN701496814Miss Ds current  OPS  confirmed the details of her pension entitled via that. The total crystallised value 
of her benefits is around £118,000. The final salary used to calculate  her entitlement is just over 
£31,000.
During our discussion with Miss D about her recollections she said:
She sought advice because  she was looking  to simplify her pension arrangements
The adviser  (representative of unregulated introducer Viceroy Jones) was recommended to 
her by her daughters  colleague
She knew nothing about pensions but because  he had been recommended  to her she 
thought that he would do the right thing
She didnt  really understand what was going on but was assured by the adviser  
(representative of unregulated  introducer  Viceroy Jones) that he would simplify things  and 
merge her pensions into one
In terms of the investment she was aware  that it was a property investment and was 
reassured that it was going into bricks and mortar, so it would be fine.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld.  In summary, he said:
Miss D could not afford to take the exceptionally high risks involved with investing  in 
Whitesands.
FSML had to give suitable advice and it failed to do so.
Although FSML has argued  that other parties were involved  Miss D was referred to FSML, it 
gave advice  and was remunerated for this  the advice given was unsuitable and it is 
responsible for this.
FSMLs response to our adjudicators view covered  a number  of points,  in summary, these were:
The findings  rely on a number of inappropriate  things such as; an unsigned and undated 
questionnaire prepared by our service years after the event and unsubstantiated  submissions  from 
Miss Ds representative.
The adjudication  concludes that suitable advice would have been for Miss D to have retained 
her OPS  benefits.
We have  not taken  into account the role of the other business involved  or gathered all of the 
relevant information that it may hold in respect of this complaint  and, that this stops it from 
being able to respond  properly and precludes  us from being able to fairly decide the 
complaint.
The complainant clearly  believed the other business was responsible;  we have dismissed  the 
complaint about the other business without  considering  it properly.
Evidence from the time of the sale supports the fact that FSML had nothing to do with the 
choice of the underlying  investment.
The limits  to FSMLs role in the transaction were made clear  to Miss D.
The details within the signed fact find from the time of advice ought  to be taken  into account 
rather than information gathered during the course of the complaint.
The fact find confirmed that Miss D was interested in consolidation and that these schemes  
did not represent a significant part of her overall benefits,  amongst other things.
Miss D was a speculative  investor with the requisite capacity for loss.
Risk warnings were provided to Miss D.
Miss Ds OPS was running a significant deficit, which brought  into question  its ability  to meet  
its liabilities/obligations.
All of this information and evidence has been  ignored, whilst subsequent unreliable  
information has been  relied on.
The conclusions  reached are not fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.
It is not reasonable to hold FSML 100% liable  when it only facilitated the transfer and had 
nothing to do with the investment made.
Ref: DRN701496815The compensation  recommended ignores the facts of the case and the principles of 
causation.
During the course of our investigation FSML has provided some additional  information which it 
believes supports its arguments in relation  to the involvement of other parties.
On 28 August 2012, FSML sent the other advisory business (with which  it had an introductory 
relationship with)  and the unregulated introducer an email, this said:
Hi [name  of individual  at advisory  business]
We have  received a new case from [name of unregulated introducer]  [Miss Ds full name].  
Please find relevant docs attached.
[name of individual  working for the unregulated  introducer]  thanks  for this case. Can you 
confirm who the actual agent is i.e. you, [name of other agent  at the unregulated introducer] 
etc. and which  investment  the client  has picked?
The unregulated introducer  responded confirming the agent and the investment. 
We have  also been provided with a copy of a letter dated  3 September 2012, where the other 
advisory business  wrote to Miss D saying:
As you are aware  from discussions with your agent,  [name  of business] will be referring your 
case to HDIFA Financial Services. This is because we do not hold the appropriate  Financial 
Services permissions to undertake occupational  pension  transfers.
We would like to make  you aware that [name of business]  act as introducing  firm to HDIFA 
Financial Services.  We do not play any part in the advice  concerning the transfer of your 
pension, neither do we have any involvement in the choice of investment assets that you wish 
to purchase.
Any investment assets that you wish to purchase once HDIFA  Financial Services have 
undertaken your pension  review will be entirely your own choice, and can be discussed with 
your introducing agent.
We ask that you sign the duplicate letter to confirm that you understand the process, and the 
involvement that [name of business] have.
On 30 October 2012, FSML emailed the unregulated  introducer, it said:
Please find illustration  attached.
I look forward  to receiving this signed by the client along with the verification documents. We 
will then be able to submit this to [name of SIPP provider].
Later that day the introducer  confirmed that the documents  were  in the post.
Because agreement could not be reached, the complaint  has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
Ref: DRN701496816However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
What did FSML do?
FSML appears to have used the pension review questionnaire sent to it by the unregulated introducer 
to get to know  Miss Ds circumstances and attitude to risk. The form went  someway  to establish what 
Miss Ds circumstances and objectives were but I think FSML fell short  in terms of establishing Miss 
Ds wider circumstances  and investment  experience. For example, it did not ask her about  what  
savings and investments she held or had previously held nor did it establish  what  provision  Miss D 
had for income in retirement beyond the pensions under review.
Where Miss D circled An insignificant  part of my overall pension benefits in answer to the question  
How important  to your overall retirement planning  is the pension benefit under discussion? She 
added a comment  saying current pensions are not a significant portion of my estate . In this instance,  
I think  this ought reasonably  to have prompted FSML to go back  to Miss D, establish what she meant 
by this, ensure that Miss D understood the difference/s between  her pension provision  and her estate,  
explain what  the question  was actually asking  and the implications of the answer  given.
FSML advised Miss D to transfer her OPS benefits and three  personal pension  plans to a
SIPP, the purpose  of this was to invest in a single  unregulated esoteric investment.
FSMLs paperwork  highlighted that it was not giving any advice on Miss Ds investment choice.
Could FSML limit its advice to the switches and OPS transfer to the SIPP?
FSML was required to follow the relevant  rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs to be 
considered through  the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles  for businesses  in particular, 
principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable  
care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1  required FSML to gather the necessary 
information about Miss Ds knowledge and experience relevant to the specific  type of designated 
investment, her financial  situation and investment objectives. This was to enable it to make a 
recommendation which  was suitable for Miss D.
COBS 9.2.2 required  FSML  to gather enough information to ensure  that the recommendation; met her 
objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and had sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things,  to fulfil its duties FSML  had to know its client, act in her best interests and 
give suitable  advice. I dont think that it could  fulfil these duties without considering the overall 
transaction, including; the suitability of the switches and transfer and the investment strategy  that the 
SIPP was taken out to facilitate.
In 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (then Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued  an 
alert in relation to Advising on pension  transfers with a view to investing  pension monies into 
unregulated products  through  a SIPP. This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
Ref: DRN701496817the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
This alert came  after FSMLs recommendation  to Miss D but the alert was issued because of issues 
that the regulator  found  when reviewing how some advisers were operating  based on existing 
regulation. In other words, the alert was a reminder  of existing obligations under the COBS  rules  it 
did not introduce a new set of obligations.
Here FSML was aware of the involvement  of an unregulated third party.  And, that the transactions 
involved Miss D switching  a significant amount of her pension provision, which  was to be invested in a 
single unregulated esoteric  investment.
FSML should have given  suitable advice  in respect of the overall transaction, in line with the 
obligations set out above. It ought to have been clear to FSML that proceeding  on the basis that it did 
was not acting  in Miss Ds best interests, in fact quite the opposite.
What would  suitable advice  have been?
Having concluded  that FSML ought to have considered the entirety of the transaction and given  
suitable advice, I have thought about what suitable advice would  have been based on what I know  
about Miss Ds circumstances at the time.
There is clearly some discrepancy  between  the information that was provided in FSMLs 
questionnaire and that which Miss D has submitted to us. I have no way of knowing with any certainty 
if this is because,  at the time of the sale, Miss Ds answers were influenced by the unregulated 
introducer  or, if her recollections to do not match  what her position  was at the time. I do not disagree 
with FSML  that generally  an adviser should be able to rely on the information provided  to it by its 
client and that typically more  weight  should be given to contemporaneous evidence.
As mentioned  previously, where Miss D qualified  that the pensions in question did not form a 
significant portion of her estate, where she said that the pensions were an insignificant part of her 
overall pension benefits, FSML should  have  probed this. Not only because of the concerning 
comments but also because it would be unusual   taking into account the sums involved and the 
proportion of that coming from an OPS  for the pensions  to represent  an insignificant part of Miss Ds 
pension benefits, particularly when  taking into account her wider  circumstances. Taking  this into 
account FSML should have had a discussion  with Miss D about  what  she meant by her comment and 
about the actual position of her pension provision as opposed to her estate.
I think  it is more  likely  than not that if FSML had had such as discussion it would  have become 
apparent that the relevant  pensions did form a significant part of her pension  provision.
I am also not persuaded that Miss D was genuinely a high risk investor with the requisite knowledge 
to understand the risks involved with the transaction or the capacity for loss to bear these.
COBS 19.1.6  G sets out that when advising a retail  client on an OPS transfer the adviser should start 
from the position that the transfer is unsuitable. And should only find the transfer to be suitable if it can 
clearly evidence that the transfer is in the clients best interests.
Ref: DRN701496818FSML knew that Miss D was intending to put all of the monies from the OPS transfer and three 
personal pension plans into a single  unregulated  esoteric investment  specifically  Whitesands  in 
light of Miss Ds circumstances,  this was enough  for it to know that the course of action was not 
suitable.
The transfer  away from the OPS, in and of itself, resulted in the loss of valuable guarantees,  which I 
do not think there was any justification for in this case. From  the point of transfer the pensions 
transferred were subject to higher charges  and exposed to a significantly higher level of risk.
I have taken into account that Miss D was a member of another OPS at the time of the advice, she 
remained a member  of the scheme  and did not transfer any benefits from it into this SIPP.  This 
means that she did have some guaranteed  pension  provision elsewhere but this does not lead me to 
conclude that the advice was suitable.
I have not seen anything that would  indicate Miss D was an experienced  investor or that she could 
afford to take significant risk with her pensions  and, even I were  to accept  that
Miss D was a high risk investor, I would still be of the view that investing  just under  £95,000  less 
charges  (around £64,000  of which came from an OPS) into a single unregulated  investment was not 
suitable for a retail client in Miss Ds position.
I think  that a reasonably competent  body of Independent Financial Advisers (IFA)  would have 
concluded that the transfer and switches to a SIPP and the subsequent investment were not suitable. 
And I think that this is the outcome that FSML ought to have reached had it properly assessed  the 
suitability of the entire transaction.
So, FSML should have recommended, in no uncertain terms, that Miss D retain her OPS benefits  and 
not switch her personal pension plans to a SIPP. This recommendation should  have included  a 
detailed explanation as to why the transfer and switches, SIPP and subsequent investment were not 
suitable and the risks involved. In respect of the personal  pensions given  Miss Ds desire to simplify  
her pension  arrangements a suitable and low cost alternative would have been a Stakeholder plan.
What would  Miss D have  done?
Having concluded  that FSML ought to have advised against the transfer and switches to the
SIPP for the purposes of investing  in Whitesands, I have thought about what  if anything  
Miss D would have done differently had she received suitable advice.
I have not seen anything in this case that would  persuade me that Miss D was likely to have ignored 
suitable advice from a regulated adviser   particularly,  if this had included a clear  explanation as to 
why the intended course of action was unsuitable  and that of the roles  of the parties involved.
Miss D was at least introduced  to Whitesands by an unregulated firm, she was then referred  to an 
adviser who referred the business onto FSML  because it did not have the requisite permissions to 
advise on the OPS transfer.  So, prior to arriving at FSMLs doorstep  Miss D had already started  along 
the path to investing in Whitesands by way of transferring her pensions  to a SIPP.  This did not in any 
way take away from the duty of care which FSML owed to Miss D. To the contrary, FSML ought  to 
have been alert to the potential for consumer  detriment where an unregulated  firm was driving the 
investment strategy and the role it was playing  in this chain of events.
Under the circumstances, when giving its recommendation FSML should  have highlighted to Miss D 
that the firm that promoted  the investment was unregulated, that it was not under the same regulatory 
requirements as it to act in her best interests and that it was not allowed to give investment advice.
Miss D did receive  some cash back for her investment in Whitesands. So, there was a cash  incentive  
for Miss D to go ahead  with the investment. There is no evidence that Miss D had a significant need 
Ref: DRN701496819for this sum of money.  Or, that it would  otherwise have been  enough of an incentive for Miss D to 
disregard advice that the proposed course of action was not suitable.
Taking everything into account, I am satisfied that if FSML had given suitable advice, Miss D would 
not have transferred her pensions to a SIPP. In turn, in this case, I dont think  that Miss D would have 
ended up in a SIPP invested in Whitesands if FSML had fulfilled its regulatory obligations  and 
provided suitable  advice.
FSMLs responsibility for the complaint  and the roles of other  parties
There is no dispute that FSML advised Miss D on the transfer of her pensions  and that it knew that 
the transfer was to facilitate investment in a single  unregulated esoteric  investment. FSML  had to give 
suitable advice, for the reasons I have set out in detail above, this had to take into account  the overall 
transaction.
I have found that if FSML had done this, it ought to have concluded that the transfers, SIPP  and 
subsequent investment were  unsuitable.  I am also satisfied that had FSML done what I have I found  it 
ought to have  Miss D would  not have ended up in a SIPP invested in Whitesands.  In other words, had 
FSML fulfilled its obligations it would have put a stop to the transaction   in turn, I think it is 
reasonable for FSML to compensate Miss D for the full measure of her loss despite the involvement 
of other parties.
FSML has submitted evidence  of the role of another advisory business and its relationship  with that 
business. It appears that the other business did not have the requisite permissions to advise on OPS 
transfers  and so, would refer cases where such advice  was required to FSML. FSML believes  that 
due consideration to this has not been given  in terms of our determining  liability.
The correspondence submitted in this case, some of which I have set out above,  points  to the referral  
having come  directly from the unregulated  introducer and then FSML  appears to notify the other 
business that it had received the referral  and, it is only after that that business  writes out to Miss D 
to explain that the business was referred to it but it has had to refer it on to FSML. Looking  at this 
correspondence I am not convinced that the process described by FSML was followed in this 
instance. But, even if that is not the case, I have not seen enough to conclude that the other advisory 
business gave advice on the investment  or the pension transfer and switches   in turn, I am satisfied 
that it is fair and reasonable to hold FSML responsible for the full measure of Miss Ds losses.
fair compensation
Miss D should  be put as closely to the position she would likely now be in if she had not been  given 
unsuitable advice as possible. As I have explained above I think that Miss D ought  to have been told 
that transferring to a SIPP was not suitable for her  and, I think that if she had been given suitable  
advice she would have  listened to this.
I have split the redress  methodology into two main parts  one covering the OPS  transfer and the other 
the three personal pension switches. Due to the nature of the loss calculations both, in essence, 
involve comparing what Miss D would  have  had if suitable advice had been given  with what she 
actually has in her SIPP. It would not be fair for the actual value of the SIPP  established (including 
any amount  added for the purchase of the illiquid investment, if applicable) to be deducted in full 
twice. So, the amount  deducted/used  for comparison  under each calculation should be proportionate 
to the share of the original  value of the SIPP  that the OPS transfer and personal pension plans 
respectively represented.
OPS benefits
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would  
be for the business to put Miss D, as far as possible,  into the position  she would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN701496820FSML must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision,  and using the most  recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Miss Ds acceptance of the decision.
FSML may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Miss Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Miss 
Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Miss D as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Miss D within 
90 days of the date FSML  receives notification of her acceptance of my decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation  amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes FSML to pay 
Miss D this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply.
treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
The SIPP only exists  because  of the illiquid investment  held within  it. I think it would  be best if the 
investment could be removed from the SIPP. Miss D would then be able to close the SIPP, if she 
wishes. That would then allow her to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. The valuation  of the relevant 
investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. For calculating compensation, the business 
should agree an amount  with the SIPP provider  as a commercial value. It should  then pay the sum 
agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the investment.
If the business  is unable, or if there are any difficulties,  in buying  Miss Ds illiquid investments, it 
should give the holding  a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. In this instance the 
business may ask Miss D to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive  from the relevant  holding. That undertaking  should allow for the effect 
of any tax and charges  on the amount
Miss D may receive from the investment and any eventual sums.
the personal pensions
I think  Miss D would have invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given
Miss D's circumstances and objectives when  she invested.
Ref: DRN701496821what should FSML do?
To compensate Miss D fairly, FSML must:
Compare the performance  of Miss D's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the 
fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
FSML should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, FSML should pay into Miss D's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If FSML is unable to pay the compensation  into Miss D's pension plan,  it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Miss D's actual or expected marginal  rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age.
For example, if Miss D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss D would  have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If FSML deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Miss D how much has been taken off. FSML  should give Miss D a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
The total 
value of all 
of the 
personal 
pensions 
transferred 
into the 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. FSML  should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid as I set out above.
Ref: DRN701496822If FSML is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. FSML may require that Miss D provides an undertaking to pay FSML any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan. FSML will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, FSML  should use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Miss D paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value  calculation 
at the point  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there are a large number of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if FSML totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss D wanted  capital  growth  with a small  risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to her capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss D's risk profile  was in between, in the sense  that she was prepared to 
take a small  level of risk to attain  her investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  combination would 
reasonably put Miss D into that position. It does not mean that Miss D would  have invested 
50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  investment. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects  the sort of return  Miss D 
could have  obtained  from investments suited  to her objective and risk attitude.
pay five years worth of future fees owed by Miss D to the SIPP
Had the business done what I have concluded  it ought  to have  done then I do not think there would  
be a SIPP. It is not fair that Miss D continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if that SIPP cannot be 
closed.
Ideally the business  would take over the illiquid holding to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Miss D back in the position she would have been in. However, third parties are 
involved and we do not have the power to tell them  what to do. To provide certainty to all parties, if 
the SIPP  cannot be closed now, I think it is fair that the business pay Miss D an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the most recent years fees).  This should  
Ref: DRN701496823provide a reasonable  period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  There  are a number  
of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Miss D with some confidence  that 
she will not be subject to further  fees.
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Miss D
FSML should pay to Miss D £500 compensation for the significant distress and inconvenience caused 
by the loss of her pension funds.
determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Financial  Solutions 
Midhurst Limited pay the balance.
determination and award: I uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Financial  Solutions Midhurst Limited should pay the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to the maximum of £150,000  (including distress  and/or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Financial Solutions  Midhurst  Limited  does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Miss D. This is until any future  benefit  that she may receive 
from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited  
(excluding any interest) equates  to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Financial Solutions  Midhurst Limited may request an undertaking from Miss D that she repays to 
Financial Solutions  Midhurst Limited any amount Miss D may receive from the investment thereafter.
Miss D should  be aware that any such amount  would be paid into her pension plan so she may have 
to realise other assets  in order to meet  the undertaking.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I also recommend  that Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited pays  Miss D the balance.  I further 
recommend interest to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time,  in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Financial  Solutions Midhurst Limited to pay Miss D from the date it 
receives notification of her acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Miss D accepts  my determination, the money award  is binding on Financial Solutions
Midhurst Limited. My recommendation  is not binding  on Financial Solutions Midhurst Limited.
Further, its unlikely that Miss D can accept my determination  and go to court  to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing to her after the money award has been paid. Miss D may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Financial Solutions
Midhurst Limited to compensate Miss D as set out above.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add as long as I receive it by 19 April 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7014968