K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained in his capacity  as Executor of the estate  of his late mother,  Mrs M. He 
has complained  that Julian  Hodge Bank Limited  (trading as Hodge Bank) failed to exercise  
due diligence  when  it allowed three drawdowns totalling £91,050 to be made from Mrs Ms 
Flexible Lifetime Mortgage  between October 2014 and October 2015.
Mr M says that his mothers estate and Hodge  Bank have both been victims of financial 
irregularity by a third party. But he wants Hodge Bank to reimburse the estate  for the 
withdrawals from the flexible facility.
background
In August  2014,  after taking advice from an independent financial adviser and her own 
solicitors, Mrs M (then aged  81) took out a Flexible  Lifetime Mortgage  with Hodge Bank. The 
initial amount  released was £51,855, plus £595 for fees. In addition, the mortgage had a 
flexible facility which allowed Mrs M to draw down further sums whenever she wished,  up to 
a maximum of £91,050.
Between December  2014 and October 2015  there were three withdrawals from the flexible 
facility, as follows:
£40,000 on 11 October 2014;
£35,000 on 20 April 2015;
£16,050 on 11 October 2015.
The funds were paid into Mrs Ms bank account. I note that in April 2015 Mrs M authorised  a 
third party to act as her representative with the bank. Hodge Bank didnt, however, agree to 
correspondence being sent to the third party.
I am sorry  to note that Mrs M passed away on 13 January  2017.
On behalf of the estate, Mr M has complained about  the withdrawals from the flexible facility. 
He says these  were made by, or at the behest  of, a family  member.  Mr M says that Hodge  
Bank failed  to take sufficient steps  to verify  that the withdrawals had been authorised by 
Mrs M.
Hodge Bank didnt  uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us. An adjudicator  looked at 
the complaint  but she didnt think Hodge Bank had done anything wrong in releasing the 
funds. She was satisfied  that the bank  had checked  the signatures on the withdrawal  slips.  
Hodge Bank had followed  up after the first withdrawal to ensure Mrs M had received the 
funds.
The adjudicator explained there was no duty on the part of Hodge  bank to carry out checks  
on Mrs Ms health. Overall, the adjudicator didnt think  the bank had acted negligently  in 
allowing Mrs M to withdraw funds from the flexible facility.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. In 
summary he says that Hodge Banks internal processes are not robust enough  to protect 
against fraud. He says the signatures  on the withdrawals slips do not match and that the 
letter requesting a change of address should  have been a red flag.
Ref: DRN74257532Mr M also says that the adjudicator has failed to express any view on his contention that 
Mrs M was never alone to be asked independently if she was entering into the mortgage of 
her own free will and not under duress   either by the financial adviser, the solicitors  or 
Hodge Bank. He says she was always accompanied by the third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive, I am required to decide   on the balance of probabilities   what I think  is like to 
have happened, based on the evidence that is available.
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Mr M and Hodge Bank. I note that Mr M has made 
allegations against a third party of criminal  behaviour,  which I am told is now the subject of 
police and/or court action. In the circumstances, I will make  no comment  on these 
allegations. We have  no remit to investigate criminal matters. 
I also cant comment on any dealings Hodge  Bank  had with the third party. I do not have the 
third partys  consent to the release of their data.  
I have noted the documents  provided  by Mr M about  a will and a complaint to the Legal 
Ombudsman about the solicitors who drew up the will. But that is not an issue  I can take into 
account when  looking at this complaint against  Hodge Bank.
I also note Mr Ms point  that Mrs M was never  alone with her advisers when the mortgage  
was taken out. But the mortgage was sold by Mrs Ms own independent  financial advisers. 
They are not agents  of the bank. In fact, they were  Mrs Ms agents. (I note that, although 
the estate has lodged another complaint with us against the bank which  held Mrs Ms current  
account, there is no complaint on our database against her financial advisers about the sale 
of the mortgage.)
The solicitors who advised  Mrs M were acting for her, not the bank.  Hodge  Bank  had its own 
solicitors acting for it on this transaction,  who did not (and were  under no obligation to) meet 
Mrs M. 
To be clear, the complaint  we are considering is not about whether or not a fraud  has taken 
place. Thats a matter  for the police and the courts to determine. This complaint is about 
whether or not Hodge Bank carried out sufficient due diligence  before  it allowed  withdrawals  
to be made  from the flexible facility.
Ive looked at the withdrawal slips for the three  drawdowns from the flexible facility,  as 
against documents signed by Mrs M in 2014  when she took out the mortgage. Although 
Mr M alleges these  are not Mrs Ms signatures, there is no independent  evidence  to support 
that contention, such as a report  from a forensic  handwriting analyst. I am not qualified to 
determine if the slips were signed by Mrs M. So I cant  make any finding  about whether or 
not Mrs M signed them. 
The bank followed its procedures by checking  the signatures against  those held on file. It 
was satisfied the signatures were not dissimilar. The bank also undertook additional security 
checks  ensuring the funds for the first withdrawal had been paid into Mrs Ms bank 
account. 
Ref: DRN74257533Hodge Bank also says it spoke to Mrs M in relation to one withdrawal. Mr M disputes this 
and says it was the third party  the bank spoke to. There  are no longer  any call recordings 
available due to the passage of time.  But, on balance, I am persuaded that it is more likely 
than not that the bank did speak to Mrs M, given that it has confirmed Mrs M passed its data 
security check.
I cant tell Hodge  Bank  what  processes it should  have  in place to prevent fraud. If there was 
a systemic  issue in the banks fraud  prevention systems, that would be a matter for the 
regulator. Hodge Bank did have  procedures in place, which appear to me to be line with 
industry standards. And after following its procedures, the bank  was satisfied that Mrs M was 
making the withdrawals.
There is nothing in the banks records to suggest that Mr M  or indeed any other  party  told 
Hodge Bank that Mrs M began suffering from dementia  in 2014, shortly  after taking out the 
mortgage. In the circumstances, I cant see how the bank might  be expected to know  this. 
There is no obligation on the part of Hodge  Bank to carry out health checks  on its customers.  
Hodge Banks role is to administer its customers accounts by acting on their instructions,  not 
to manage their finances for them. Unless Mrs M specifically asked Hodge Bank for advice 
about how she should spend or invest her money,  the bank was under no duty to offer 
unsolicited advice about this. If Mrs M told Hodge Bank she was intending to invest in a 
business, the bank had no obligation to try to dissuade her or offer advice about alternative 
investments.
I appreciate that the underlying issue here is a family  dispute  about the actions of the third 
party. I am told that this person is now bankrupt. Consequently, if it is established  by a court 
that, as a result of the withdrawals from the flexible facility, the third party  has had the benefit 
of funds which should have formed part of Mrs Ms estate, their ability to reimburse the 
estate is likely to be limited.  But that doesnt mean that Hodge Bank, acting in good  faith and 
in accordance with its procedures  when  it processed the withdrawals,  should  be required to 
reimburse the estate  instead, simply because it is the party  with the assets that would enable 
it to do so. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mrs M, to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7425753