K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  two mortgage endowment policies  provided  by the 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited.  They are unhappy with the performance of the 
policies and that Prudential wouldnt remove the additional benefits from the policy,  thereby 
allowing more of the premium to be invested to help mitigate poor performance.  
Mr and Mrs M say at no point were they told the additional benefits were  permanently 
attached to the policy and couldnt  be changed  or removed.
Mr and Mrs M were  also unhappy that when  Prudential  considered  the suitability of the 2000 
policy it determined it had been mis-sold, but they hadnt suffered a loss. They  feel some 
gesture should  be made as they wouldnt have gone through the stress and inconvenience 
of complaining if it hadnt been mis-sold.
background 
Mr and Mrs M arranged  their first endowment policy in 1995 and the second in 2000. The 
1995 policy was for £47,150 over 25 years. The premiums were  invested equally between 
the with-profits fund and a unit-linked  managed fund. Critical illness cover equal to the 
policys target value  and waiver of premium benefit  were added to the policy. The 
commission for this policy was paid to Mr M as he was a member  of staff at the time of the 
sale.
The policy arranged in 2000 was for £26,950  and had a 20 year term. It was invested in 
unit-linked funds. Attached to the policy were the added  benefits of critical illness cover 
equal to the amount of life cover and waiver  of premium benefit.  
In 2014 Mr and Mrs M complained to Prudential about the sale of the 1995 policy.  Prudential  
asked for more information  to allow it to investigate the complaint. When  that information  
wasnt provided, it closed  its file on the matter. It told Mr and Mrs M it was doing  so and if 
they werent satisfied,  they could refer the complaint to this service. They gave them  six 
months to do so from the date of their letter   so by 8 February 2015. Mr and Mrs M dont 
appear to have taken  any further action at the time to pursue their complaint.
In 2018 Mr M wrote  to Prudential to ask for the critical illness  cover  and waiver of premium  
benefits be removed  from both policies and the portion of the premium  used  to pay for them  
be redirected for investment purposes. Prudential told Mr M this wasnt  possible. It said it 
had withdrawn the ability to remove such benefits  in 2007. It also confirmed to Mr M it hadnt  
told policyholders about its decision.  
Mr and Mrs M complained to Prudential about  the disappointing performance of the policies. 
Also, that they werent told at the point  of sale the additional benefits couldnt be amended  or 
removed. They said the latter actions in refusing to vary their policies breached the 
regulators guidance and prevented them from gaining  a fair outcome.
Prudential considered the complaint. It raised  the issue of the suitability of the two policies 
for Mr and Mrs M at the times they were sold, despite this not being  part of the complaint 
that had been made.  It said any such complaint about the 1995 policy would be time-barred 
as any such complaint had to have been raised  by 13 April 2016. It, therefore, said it 
wouldnt consider  any complaint  about this policy. 
Ref: DRN71624052In relation to the 2000 policy,  Prudential concluded  the policy had been mis-sold as it had 
represented too high a risk for Mr and Mrs M in 2000. As such,  it established if they had 
suffered a loss because  of the mis-sale. It ran a calculation  recommended by the regulator  
for such complaints,  which compared  the position  Mr and Mrs M were in with an endowment 
mortgage and that which they should  have been  in if theyd had a repayment mortgage.  Only 
the core endowment premium was included in the calculation  the cost of the critical illness  
cover and waiver of premium was removed. This was because  it was assumed they would 
have wanted these benefits  if theyd  had a repayment mortgage and would have taken a 
standalone policy.  The calculation established  Mr and Mrs M hadnt  suffered a loss.
As regards  the complaint about the loss of ability to remove additional benefits, this wasnt  
addressed in the final response.  When Mr M raised  this with Prudential, it said its position 
was clear and wouldnt  consider  the matter again. In saying this, it would appear it was 
maintaining that the ability to do this was removed some years  ago and so it didnt need to 
comply with Mr and Mrs Ms request. 
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Mr and Mrs M came to us. Around  that time they also 
surrendered their endowment policies. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He upheld  the complaint in part. He 
agreed with the business that the 2000  policy, which exceeded its target value, didnt require 
any redress to be paid.  He was not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms argument that the cost of 
the additional benefits should be returned to them.  As regards the 1995 policy  he agreed any 
complaint about  the mis-sale was time-barred because the complaint had been made 
outside the relevant time limits. 
However, the investigator thought the decision to remove the option to stop allowing 
changes to policies  should have been communicated  to policyholders. As it wasnt;  he 
suggested Prudential  pay £100 to Mr and Mrs M for the trouble caused.  
Prudential didnt accept  the investigators view. It pointed out that the ability to cancel the 
additional benefits wasnt a right under the terms and conditions. It was a concession  which,  
at one point, Prudential allowed. As it wasnt something consumers  were  entitled to, when 
the concession  was withdrawn, no letters were sent. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 April 2019. In that document  I explained what  my 
conclusions were and how I had reached  them. Below is an excerpt.
Prudential has said that any complaint  about the risks associated with the 1995 endowment 
policy was made too late. As Mr and Mrs M didnt actually make this complaint in 2018, I 
dont consider that I need to comment on whether the complaint was made  in time or not. 
However, if I needed to do so, it would be the time limit detailed in Prudentials 2014 closure 
letter, in which it gave  appropriate referral rights, that would be the relevant one.
As regards  the assessment of the 2000 policy  Prudential made, it is able to consider wider  
matters than those  specifically raised by a policyholder, if it notices a problem. This is a good 
thing and I would commend Prudential for doing  so. In this case,  Prudential  determined that 
the level of risk with the 2000 policy was too high for Mr and Mrs M at that time. Therefore, 
the question I must  consider is whether Prudential calculated whether Mr and Mrs M 
suffered a loss by a suitable method. 
Ref: DRN71624053There is, in fact, no right way of calculating  redress.  There are a very large number of 
possible ways to approach it. However we adopt  the approach which is common to the 
regulator, consumer  bodies and the industry. That is to assume  that if the policy  in question 
hadnt been sold, the consumers would have taken a repayment mortgage instead.  This is 
the method of calculation Prudential adopted and it seems reasonable to me that it did.
In this case, a repayment mortgage  would not have been paid off until 2020. However, at the 
time Mr and Mrs M complained to Prudential, the policy was already worth  more than the 
amount of mortgage  it was arranged to repay. In addition, having  reviewed  the loss 
calculation sheets, a repayment mortgage would have cost them significantly more over the 
18 years  the calculation was done  over. So I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs M didnt suffer a 
loss by taking  out the 2000  policy.
Mr and Mrs M have  noted that the entire  endowment premium wasnt used in the calculation. 
They pointed out that they paid out circa an additional £10 per month  for the policy. They  
want this money refunded. I have considered this request and I dont agree that this money 
should be refunded. The money  paid the cost of the critical  illness  cover  and waiver  of 
premium benefit. I accept that Mr M asked to cancel these benefits in 2018,  but there has 
been no indication  that he and Mrs M didnt  want or need them  at the time they arranged  the 
policy. As such, they paid for policy  benefits that were wanted and received. Had a 
repayment mortgage been arranged,  its reasonable that Mr and Mrs M would have taken 
similar protection benefits to protect  it, so refunding the cost of those benefits would be 
inappropriate.
I now turn to the matter of whether Prudential should  have allowed the cancellation of the 
additional benefits in 2018 when it was asked to. I have reviewed the terms and conditions 
for both the 1995 and 2000 policies. Neither of these indicates that there was an option built 
into either of the policies  to remove benefits  after they were selected. So Mr and Mrs M 
didnt have the right to cancel the additional  benefits when they asked  to do so in 2018. 
There is mention of a charge that could be levied if the policy was altered by mutual  
agreement between the policyholders and Prudential. This would indicate that on an 
individual policy basis, changes could be made if a policyholder made a request and 
Prudential was willing to agree it. Where  such arrangements are made,  they are called 
concessions. I suspect  that Mr and Mrs M were aware such  concessions could be made due 
to Mr Ms employment with the issuing life assurance company at the time of the 1995 sale.
A policyholder has no right to a concession; it is entirely at the discretion of a financial 
business to grant one. That discretion is not something that this service would usually look to 
interfere with. I can see no reason to in this case.  So when Prudential  decided that it would 
no longer give such  concessions in 2007,  it was entitled to do so and I see nothing wrong 
with it making that decision. I would also comment that as a concession  isnt a contractual 
right and will by its very nature vary or cease to be available at times, we wouldnt expect a 
financial business to proactively inform  its policyholders of such  arrangements or changes  to 
them.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs M were never entitled to remove the additional benefits from the 
policy. Prudential did nothing wrong  in removing the concession that had at one time allowed 
such actions to be agreed.  In addition, we would not expect  policyholders to be informed of 
such a decision.  I dont consider Prudential did anything wrong in this regard so I dont 
propose to make an award against  it.
Ref: DRN71624054Prudential didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M said they completely  
disagree with the provisional decision. Mr M believes that assumptions have been made 
about his knowledge about  the endowment policy because he worked in the financial sector 
at the time. He pointed out that he worked in pensions  when  the policy was taken out, not 
mortgages or endowments. So why would he have full knowledge  of the policy?  Mr M said 
hes lost all faith in this service.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Ms 
further comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I am sorry  Mr M has lost faith in this service and I would like to assure  him I didnt make  an 
assumption he had any in-depth knowledge of the endowment policy  when I came  to my 
provisional conclusions.  I was fully aware he worked  with pensions. However, given the 
alterations he and Mrs M wanted  to make werent  a feature of the policy, it seems likely they 
were aware concessions could be made on products due to his employment with the issuing 
life assurance company.  I am still satisfied  that is likely to be the case.
Mr and Mrs M havent provided any further  information or evidence  that would cause me to 
alter my conclusions. Those  conclusions being the loss calculation carried out by Prudential  
for the 2000 policy was made  using  the appropriate method and established that Mr and Mrs 
M didnt suffer a loss due to the policy being mis-sold. I remain satisfied they werent entitled 
to make the alterations  they wanted  to under the terms and conditions of the policy, so there 
wasnt anything wrong with Prudential declining the request. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 June  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7162405