K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly-premium PPI policies, taken out in 1990 and 1996, to cover  
a mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 22 years ago and none of the original documents  from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and that it 
would have been presented as a choice. And I dont have evidence to show that Nationwide 
didnt make clear the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that Mr and Mrs B freely  chose 
to take it. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs B to decide whether it was suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have  affected  
whether Mr and Mrs B took the PPI. I say this because not being able to pay your mortgage  
can lead to serious difficulties; and the potential PPI benefits were greater than 
Mr and Mrs Bs likely sick pay, so the PPI could have been  useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been  affected  by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
Ref: DRN74910252my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7491025