K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the 
seller in my decision.
Mrs F says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs F took out in 2001. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think  FICL gave Mrs F clear  
enough information about the policy. I say this because Mrs F had medical conditions which 
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be able to. I dont think Mrs F wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given  her 
enough information about it. So, I think Mrs F has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said in questioning whether the 
conditions were an issue for Mrs F at the time of the sale.  But I still think  I should  uphold the 
complaint. The conditions had caused Mrs F to take time off work in the past,  and whilst they 
may or not have been active in her life at the time of the sale, that doesnt  mean  they 
wouldnt be in the future.  The condition in the policy had the potential to cause  serious 
complications to Mrs F if the conditions  caused  further periods of time off work in the future. 
So I still think it wouldve been  important to Mrs F that the conditions were covered. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs F in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs F would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN73940532If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs F would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.  
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs F would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs F paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mrs F 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs F what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7394053