K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. The PPI 
was sold through  a postal application  alongside a credit card.  Ive seen a copy  of the 
application form. This shows Mr W was presented  with two equally clear  options to take 
or refuse PPI. I can see that Mr W chose the option to take PPI. He also signed  this 
form.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One got a high level of commission  and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  
Capital One didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital  One has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what hes said about not being 
aware he had been  sold PPI and the restrictions/exclusions not being  explained  to him. But 
these points dont  change my decision for the reasons already set out.
what Capital  One needs to do
Ref: DRN79362252Capital One has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Mr W any extra  interest 
he paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr W the difference  
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr W 8%* simple  
interest if Mr W paid off his credit card at some point.
I understand Mr W was in an IVA. So Capital One should liaise with Mr Ws IVA supervisor 
about any payments  they need to make because of my decision.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7936225