K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK Plc:
declined her application to re-mortgage
has treated her unfairly  by not letting her make changes to her mortgage  without the 
consent of her ex-partner
charged an unfair interest rate
To resolve  this complaint,  she would like Santander  to allow her to take the mortgage into
her sole name, change from interest  only to part interest, part repayment  and access a
better interest rate.
background
In 2008, Ms H took out an interest only mortgage with her partner  at the time. Ms H and her
partner separated shortly  after and shes  maintained the mortgage since. She is no longer in
contact with her ex-partner. The original fixed rate ended  in March 2014  and the mortgage
has been on the standard variable rate (SVR) since.
In 2018, Ms H asked  Santander for a new interest rate but it said it couldnt proceed with an
application until her ex-partner  agreed to be removed from the mortgage.  It also said that
when she had previously  asked to make  changes to her mortgage, she was refused
because she didnt  meet  Santanders affordability  criteria.
Ms H thought this was unfair as she had been paying the mortgage on her own for the
previous nine years, and it would cost her solicitors fees to contact her ex-partner and agree
for him to be removed.  She brought her complaint to this service.
Since the complaint has been  with this service, the mortgage has been transferred into
Ms Hs sole name. Santander has agreed  to extend the mortgage term, change  the basis  of
the mortgage from interest  only to part interest and part capital repayment and have applied
a two-year fixed interest  rate.
Our investigator didnt  think this went far enough  as Ms H had made  previous  attempts  to
change her mortgage but was refused. She recommended  that the change be backdated to
August 2017,  and the mortgage account  be reworked to reflect this. She also recommended
Santander pay Ms H £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the matter.
Santander didnt  agree with this and said that the delay was due to the legal process  to
transfer the mortgage into Ms Hs sole name,  which is something it doesnt have control
over.
It asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint and issue  a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 25 November 2020. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different
outcome to the investigator,  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN76573832Attempts to make changes to the mortgage
Ive carefully considered  the contact notes  and the calls provided between  Santander  and
Ms H. Ms H has been  paying  the Standard Variable Rate  (SVR) since 2014 and she says
she made attempts  to change her rate but wasnt able to without the authority of the joint
account holder.  I can see from the notes that in 2014, Ms H started an application to extend
the term of her mortgage and change from interest  only to part interest and part repayment
but withdrew the application the same day. The notes suggest that this was because she
was going to look into getting  her ex-partner removed  from the account.  But because  the
application was withdrawn, I dont think Santander  should have done anything further here.
In August  2017  she called  to ask to take the mortgage into her sole name and change from
interest only to part interest, part repayment.  Santander hasnt been  able to provide a
recording of this call but the note says:  Customer wanted to do cob (change of borrower)
and remove Mr and change to repayment. Cob is not affordable and this is customers
priority. Customer will have a think and may call back to change MOR (mortgage).
Santander has said that the onus  was on Mrs H to call back  if she wished to proceed  with
her request.  But I cant see any evidence that Santander thought about setting aside
affordability here, or whether it thought  about what would have been  in the best interests of
Ms H. I do note that no formal application  was made at this point - but I can understand why
she didnt take an application further at the time because she was told it wasnt  possible.
Had she been able to, or had Santander  explained the process more clearly, I think  she
could have had the chance  to consider her options  further and whilst other changes  might
not have been possible without the consent of the other account holder, she could have
changed the interest rate she was paying.
In May 2018, Ms H asked again to change her mortgage. The notes say: part and part
query. Explained  no IO (interest  only)  repayment vehicle so cannot do part and part.
Customer will call back when less than 6 months remaining to speak with IO mat (interest
only maturity) team. This isnt right and goes  against the guidance  issued by the regulator
for lenders to support  interest only mortgage customers to reduce their outstanding  liability at
the end of their mortgage terms.
I think at both points   in August 2017  and, later in May 2018,  Ms H should have been able
to make an application, and Santander  should have considered  it fairly.
Ms H was an existing customer of Santander, with an existing mortgage. She wasnt looking
to borrow more, rather - she was looking for a new rate and trying to secure  her finances by
changing her repayment  type. There are special rules for customers in this situation. In short
the rules say that lenders  arent required to carry out an affordability assessment, or an
assessment of an interest-only repayment  strategy, if it would be in the customers best
interests not to do so.
That doesnt  mean that Santander shouldnt have looked at how affordable the mortgage
might be for Ms H, but what this means is that it wouldnt be right to refuse her application
based on affordability or repayment strategy  if it were otherwise in her best interests to
grant it.
Interest rate change
I think here it would  have been  in Mrs Hs best interests to make a change to the interest
rate that she was paying on her mortgage.  Ive listened to the calls where this was discussed
Ref: DRN76573833and noted that Ms H wanted to avoid  an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) and any fees.  She
says this is because  she may wish to sell the property in the near future so didnt want to be
tied into a fixed term with a fee to pay on exiting.  She also says she wanted to avoid the
upfront cost of paying arrangement fees.  Ms H opted for one of Santanders tracker rates
which was quoted to be around  3.75%, which was lower than the SVR rate of around 4.75%
that she was paying.
Santander has said that it needed  the consent  of the other party to change the rate because
they could object to the new rate and it would revert to the SVR. But I think  Santander could
have done more to help - and by refusing a rate change on the basis of needing consent
from the other party, it put barriers in the way of Ms H accessing a fairer  rate. In my view,  it
would have been in the best interests  of all account  holders  to allow  this change to the
mortgage, because  the monthly payments would have decreased  and because Ms H
wanted a product without an ERC  or application  fees. This meant that her request would not
have resulted in the other party being  liable for any fees or additional payments and would
have reduced the amount all parties were  liable to pay. There  was therefore no possible
prejudice to the other party in granting the application. Im aware  Santander had products
available which met this description.
Considering this, I think that the rate change should be applied from August 2017. Ive noted
that the call note refers  to a change in the repayment type and removal of the other  party
and doesnt mention the request to change the interest rate. Ive thought about whether it
would be fair to ask Santander to backdate the interest rate as this wasnt  specifically
mentioned on the call note. These call notes are summaries of conversations and dont
necessarily reference  everything that was discussed.
Where there is a lack of evidence, I look at the balance  of probabilities and here, I think  it
was highly likely that Ms H would have also asked  to change her interest rate. Shes  said
that she had tried to in the past but had been  declined and I think that, had an application
been made and considered at this point, it would have been fair to apply a rate change.
Because I think Santander  put her off making an application by simply saying it couldnt
make a change without the authority  of the other party, I think  this prevented other  options  
such as just changing the rate  from being explored.
As her application has since  been  approved and her circumstances havent  changed,  I think
its likely  that an application to change the rate would have been successful if fully
considered at an earlier date.
Other changes to the mortgage
Ms H asked for other changes to her mortgage including a switch to part interest only and
part repayment and an extension to the term to allow this.
Santander said that it couldnt  agree to this without the other  account  holders consent. Ive
considered these changes and the potential impact on both account holders. A change  to
extend the term increases the amount of time that both account holders are liable for the
mortgage debt and required to make payments for. A switch  to part interest, part repayment
increases the monthly payments. Ive noted Ms Hs comments that her ex-partner had left
some time ago and no longer has an interest  in the property,  as well as the fact that she has
been paying the mortgage herself for the past nine years.
But unfortunately, her ex-partner was still named on the account and that means that he was
Ref: DRN76573834jointly and severally  liable  for the mortgage to be repaid. To accept these changes  without
the consent of the other party increases Santanders risk and so I dont think  it acted unfairly
in asking Ms H to apply  to remove him through the change of borrower process before
considering other changes.
Ms H has said she has a signed letter from her ex-partner  stating that he has no interest  in
the property. Ive considered this letter and can see why Ms H feels so strongly about this. 
However, this letter  is dated in 2010  and whilst that might have been the intention at the
time, Im mindful that this was several years  ago and interest in the property isnt the same
as liability for the mortgage. As the other account holder is named on the mortgage,  they are
still liable  for the debt to Santander. So for example, If Ms H found  herself  in a position
where she was unable to make  payments,  Santander could  ask the other  party to.
Considering this, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Santander to ask for their consent
before approving these changes.
Whilst I appreciate this process  has been  lengthy  and has meant that Ms H has incurred
solicitors costs, I dont think Santander has acted unfairly in asking her to go through  the
change of borrower process before  allowing the change to the repayment type and term of
the mortgage.
Putting things right
Since the complaint has been  with this service, the mortgage has been transferred into
Ms Hs sole name. Santander has agreed  to extend the mortgage term, change  from interest
only to part interest  and part repayment and have applied a two-year  fixed  interest rate. But
for the reasons Ive given,  I think  the change to the interest rate should  be applied from
August 2017 as I think Santander deterred Ms H from applying to make changes  to the
mortgage or look at other options.
Considering everything, I uphold this complaint in part. I think Santander should backdate
the interest rate change to apply  the lowest fee-free, ERC-free tracker rate that would have
been available as if Ms Hs request had been fully considered in August  2017, up until the
new interest rate was arranged in May 2019.  And it should give Ms H the choice of having
the overpayments that result either  refunded to her or used to reduce the mortgage  balance.
But I dont think that the account  should be reworked to reflect  any other  changes  to the
mortgage as I dont agree that Santander should  be compelled to make  changes without the
other account holders  consent. And I dont think it acted unreasonably in asking  for its own
change of borrower process to be followed.
I think an £250 payment  in recognition  of the trouble and upset caused  by this matter  is
reasonable and appropriate considering  everything.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in
part and direct Santander UK Plc to:
- apply the lowest fee-free  tracker  rate that would have been  available as if Ms Hs
request has been  fully considered in August  2017,  up until the new interest rate was
arranged in May 2019
Ref: DRN76573835- give Ms H the choice  of either:
a refund of the difference between the SVR Ms H paid each month and the
lowest fee-free tracker  rate that would have been available,  adding simple
annual interest of 8% from the date of each  monthly  payment  to the date of
refund; or
using the overpayments made  each month  to reduce the mortgage balance,
re-calculating the interest  charged as a result
- pay Ms H £250 for the trouble and upset  caused  to her by this matter
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms H responded to say that she had nothing further to add and accepts the provisional 
decision. 
Santander responded to say that it accepted  the provisional decision but said that there was 
no fee-free product available to Ms H in August 2017. Instead, it has said that there  was a 
two-year tracker rate at 2.74% above base rate (so 2.99% at the time), which  had a booking 
fee of £999. 
Santander also said that it would credit the difference in payments to the mortgage  account 
to reduce the outstanding  balance. It agreed to pay Ms H £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the matter.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  my provisional decision  in light of the comments  received. Having done so, 
I dont think its unreasonable for the booking  fee to be deducted from the redress 
calculation. I understand from the calls Ive listened to between  Ms H and Santander that 
Ms H was keen to avoid  any upfront costs such as an arrangement  fee, but that it was also 
really important to her to avoid having  to pay an ERC as she was considering selling the 
property in the near future. 
As this was the only product available to her at the time that didnt incur  an ERC, she would 
have needed to pay this fee in order to access the rate. So I dont think  its unfair  to be 
deducted as this puts her in the position that she would have been in if she had been able to 
take it at the time. 
Ive also noted  that Santander has said it is happy to credit  the difference  in payments to the 
mortgage balance.  This is for Ms H to decide  if she would like the refund applied to the 
mortgage account or paid to her directly.  Although this is a joint mortgage,  I think its fair for 
the redress to be paid to Ms H alone   if thats  what she chooses  since this is only her 
complaint and these  are payments that only she has made  and therefore they should be 
refunded to her alone.  
Ref: DRN76573836my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Santander UK Plc to:
apply the two-year tracker rate that would  have been available  to Ms H in August 
2017, up until the new interest rate was arranged in May 2019  deducting the £999  
booking fee
give Ms H the choice of either:
a refund of the difference between the SVR and the two-year tracker rate, 
adding simple annual  interest of 8% from the date of each  monthly payment 
to the date of refund; or
using the overpayments made  each month  to reduce the mortgage balance, 
re-calculating the interest charged as a result
pay Ms H £250 for the trouble and upset caused  to her by this matter 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7657383