K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Mrs S as executors of the late Ms Ms estate complained  about  the way Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited handled  a subsidence claim under a buildings insurance 
policy.
background
In July 2012, the late Ms M reported a large crack  in the property to Lloyds. Its expert  carried 
out investigations and identified the cause of the damage as leaking drains.
It said three drain runs needed repair. The drain runs were referred to as run A, B and C. 
Lloyds advised  that it would repair the drains as an accidental damage insurance  claim  and 
then repair  the damage to the property as a subsidence claim.
In July 2017 Lloyds gave  a certificate of structural adequacy  confirming  that all the drains 
had been repaired  and that following 12 months of monitoring, the property had stabilised.
There were various problems with the repairs. Eventually Lloyds disinstructed the original 
contractor and appointed another one to finish the repairs properly.
Mr J complained to Lloyds about various  aspects of its claim management.  Lloyds upheld  his 
complaint and paid £1,750 compensation in addition to compensation of £2,450 paid in 
July 2016.
Mr J and Mrs S complained to this service. Mr J said in summary  they were  unhappy that:
they hadnt received a drainage guarantee from Lloyds;
there were errors and problems with the structural adequacy certificate;
Lloyds hadnt dealt with the party wall process properly;
the value of the property had been affected  by the claim;
Lloyds had opened two claims and so Ms M had to pay two excess payments;
it wasnt clear what works had been done  by the original contractor or the one brought  in 
by Lloyds to finish  the works properly;
poor communication;
lack of information about  Ms Ms legal  expenses cover; and
poor complaint handling.
Mr J says if Lloyds had handled the claim better,  the house could have been repaired and 
sold much  sooner. That would have meant Ms Ms estate avoiding  ongoing interest  charges 
on a mortgage.  It would also have saved him a huge amount of stress.
Mr J had a CCTV survey  carried  out on the drains.  That showed Lloyds hadnt in fact 
repaired drain run A. Lloyds said drain  run A was actually the water companys 
responsibility. The water  company refused  to repair drain run A. It said there wasnt  anything 
wrong with it.
Lloyds accepted that the certificate  it had issued was wrong. It offered to issue  a new 
certificate and also offered compensation of £100 to Mr J for the inconvenience caused by 
its error.  It said if Mr J sent it the invoice for the CCTV report,  it would reimburse the cost.
Ref: DRN71357382Mr J didnt accept the settlement  as he says he cant sell the property without drain run A 
being fixed and he wants Lloyds to do this work. He sent us an invoice of £222  for the CCTV 
survey and a separate invoice from his company for £594 in respect of his time.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
Both parties are well aware  of the history of this claim. In making offers of compensation 
Lloyds has effectively accepted that it could have handled this claim better.  Ill look whether 
Lloyds has treated Ms Ms estate fairly in its settlement offers.
drainage guarantee
Lloyds says that all work  carried out by it is guaranteed for a 12 month period. It said it cant 
offer a guarantee that the property wont  suffer from subsidence in future. But it confirmed 
that if there  was further damage in the same  area by the same cause within six years of the 
repairs, it would reopen the claim.
Lloyds is obliged to carry out a lasting  and effective repair. But in my view that doesnt mean 
it has to issue a guarantee  in respect of the works that can be relied upon in future by third 
parties.
A future purchaser  of the property may wish to ask Lloyds to continue  to provide subsidence 
cover for this property  in line with good  industry practice relating to properties that have had 
subsidence claims.
structural adequacy certificate
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the certificate is wrong because it refers  to drain run A 
as having been repaired. Lloyds offered to arrange for a new certificate to be issued when 
the complaint  has been resolved or when probate  has been granted.  Probate  has now been 
granted. So I think Lloyds should  issue an amended  certificate to Mr J and Mrs S as 
executors without further delay.
The fact that this certificate  was incorrect has caused Mr J a considerable amount of trouble 
and upset. In the end he had to arrange a CCTV survey to prove Lloyds  was wrong. 
Unfortunately for Mr J I cant award  compensation for trouble and upset suffered by 
executors and we dont  usually compensate executors for their time. So I dont think Lloyds 
is liable  to pay Mr Js companys costs for his time but I do think  it should  reimburse  him for 
the £222 already paid plus simple interest  at 8% from the date of payment. Mr J should 
contact Lloyds if he wishes to accept its offer of £100 compensation for inconvenience.
Although Lloyds representative  shouldnt  have said that drain run A was repaired when it 
hadnt been, that doesnt mean that Lloyds is liable to repair this drain. Thats  because  the 
evidence Ive seen  points to the drain  being  the responsibility of the local water  company 
since its a drain shared  with other  properties. Im also not persuaded that the mistake with 
the certificate proves Lloyds hasnt carried out the other repairs  satisfactorily.
party wall process
Mr J thinks Lloyds should inspect a neighbouring property to check  it hasnt been damaged 
as a result  of the repair works. Lloyds said there was no record of the neighbour raising any 
concerns about  the works.
Ref: DRN71357383I note that when Lloyds sent the neighbour a Schedule of Condition  of their property, it said:
The Schedule of Condition  will be reviewed once works are complete to check that damage 
has not been caused to your property following planned works at No [x].
Mr J says Lloyds failure  to do this has caused  difficulties  with his neighbour. In order to treat 
Ms Ms estate fairly, I think provided  the neighbour agrees Lloyds should carry out such a 
review as soon as reasonably practicable.
fall in value of Mrs Ms property
We usually say that if a property has stabilised and the building  has been  properly repaired, 
there should be no reduction in value. The situation  in this case  is complicated by the fact 
that drain run A hasnt  been repaired and so theres the possibility of further damage. But 
since Ive found  thats not Lloyds responsibility, I cant hold it responsible for any fall in value 
of the property.
excess payments
The late Ms Ms policy covered the cost of repairing damage to her property caused by 
subsidence but not the cost of removing the cause of the subsidence  in this case  the 
drainage repairs.  Fortunately she had accidental  damage cover  which  covered the cost of 
repairing her drains.  Since  these  were separate sections of her policy,  different excess  
payments were applied.  This isnt unusual and I dont  think Lloyds treated the late Ms M 
unfairly in applying two excesses under her policy.
who did what
Two contractors worked on the property. The first was removed due to poor workmanship  
and unfinished  repairs. The second finished  the job. I can understand Mr J being concerned  
because he didnt know whod done  what. Lloyds has now provided information  on the work 
carried out by each company.
Mr J is concerned that work carried out by the first contractor might  be sub-standard. I 
havent seen any evidence that there is outstanding poor quality work. So I dont think Lloyds 
has acted unfairly in not investigating further the work carried out by the first contractor.
poor communication
I can understand that it would be upsetting for Mr J to receive letters addressed  to the 
deceased when  the company writing had been told that their policyholder  had died. But 
these letters appear  to have been sent by the insurer  providing legal expenses cover rather 
than Lloyds. Im not persuaded  that there are failings on the part of Lloyds in respect of this.
legal expenses cover
Im pleased that Mr J has now been able to clarify  the extent of Ms Ms legal expenses cover  
and can see that this was unnecessarily difficult for him. But Im not convinced that was 
Lloyds fault. Its not unusual  for that cover to be provided by a different insurer. Lloyds 
referred Mr J to the other  insurer and gave him contact details for it. I dont  think  it needed to 
do any more than that.
poor complaint handling
As our investigator has explained, complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity.  That means I 
cant look at how Lloyds  has handled Mr Js complaints.
Ref: DRN71357384responses to my provisional  findings
Lloyds had no comments on my provisional  decision.
In summary  Mr J said:
it was unfair that a future  owner wouldnt have the benefit of a guarantee of at least  six 
years for the repairs carried out by Lloyds and the lack of such a guarantee would  affect 
the value of the property on sale.
hed complained at least three times to Lloyds that the structural adequacy certificate  was 
inaccurate. The incorrect structural adequacy  certificate shows  how incompetent  Lloyds 
was.
Hed made  it clear that hed seek to recover all his costs for arranging the CCTV 
investigation. He reserves the right to recover all reasonable  costs in connection with the 
claim.
He thinks Lloyds  should accept responsibility  for fixing drain run A. Since Ms M had 
accidental damage  cover for the drains, Lloyds should have repaired drain  run A.
Lloyds is pursuing the water company.
Its still not clear who did what in terms of repairs.
In 2016 hed highlighted a major  concern on lack of progress and failure on the part of 
Lloyds to manage the project properly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The late Ms Ms policy was a policy of indemnity. In general terms where  a claims accepted,  
Lloyds should  aim to put the policyholder  in the position they would have been in just before 
the loss or damage happened. In this case I think that means  the drains repaired by Lloyds 
should be free from damage and the repair should be lasting. The provision or not of any 
guarantee doesnt change  that. Im not persuaded that Lloyds has treated Ms Ms estate 
unfairly by not providing a guarantee for the drainage repairs.
I dont dispute  that Mr J complained to Lloyds on more than one occasion that the structural  
adequacy certificate was wrong. As Lloyds now accepted, Mr J was right in this respect. I 
appreciate that this caused him a great deal of trouble and upset. But for the reason 
explained in my provisional decision  I cant award  compensation  to Mr J for that since hes 
an executor. I also cant punish Lloyds since this service isnt a regulator. 
The fact that Mr J made it clear to Lloyds that hed be seeking to charge for his time doesnt 
necessarily mean that Lloyds should  pay those costs. They arent  covered  by the policy. 
I note Mr J wishes to reserve his rights  in respect  of these. Its not for me to give advice in 
this respect. Since accepting or rejecting this decision may affect his legal position, he may 
wish to seek appropriate legal advice first.
The late Ms M was covered under her policy for accidental  damage to services  but only 
services serving her home and for which she was legally responsible. In the absence  of any 
evidence to show that drain  run A was the late Ms Ms responsibility,  I dont think  Lloyds 
acted unreasonably in not accepting liability for its repair.
Ref: DRN71357385The certificate of structural adequacy confirms that the property has been returned  to its pre-
loss condition. If it should turn out that the repairs were inadequate in any way, the executors 
of Ms Ms estate  will be able to have recourse  to Lloyds. Although Mr J would like to know in 
greater detail which contractor did what,  I dont think Ms Ms estate will be disadvantaged  by 
not having this information.  
I agree  that Lloyds  could have handled  this claim better.  But overall, taking into account the 
effect its failings had on Ms Ms estate, I think the compensation  already offered by Lloyds is 
fair and reasonable to compensate it for the inconvenience it was caused.
Overall Mr Js response to my provisional  decision doesnt cause me to change  my findings.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  to:
issue a corrected  certificate of structural  adequacy  to the executors of Ms Ms estate 
without further  delay;
reimburse the cost of the CCTV survey  being £222 plus simple interest* at 8% from the 
date of payment; and
carry out a review  of the Schedule of Condition of the neighbouring  property as soon as 
reasonably practicable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr J and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr J and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7135738