K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the compensation due to him from HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) for 
a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy that was sold to him to cover  the 
overdraft attached to his business current account.
background
Mr H complained that he had been  mis-sold  PPI connected to the overdraft on his business 
current account. After he had brought his complaint to this service HSBC  agreed to uphold  
his complaint and offered some compensation. 
HSBC originally offered  £139.85 in total as compensation. Mr H wasnt happy with that offer 
and our adjudicator  said what HSBC  had offered didnt include all the premiums Mr H had 
paid and HSBC  should recalculate.  
HSBC then worked out the total compensation for the overdraft PPI as £2,290.66. Mr H still 
wasnt happy and also felt some consequential losses  had been caused by the PPI. 
Our adjudicator said the offer HSBC had made of £2,290.66 was actually more  
compensation than should have been  paid as the amount  for the premiums  being refunded  
was more than was actually charged. HSBC  said it would still honour this offer and our 
adjudicator said this was fair.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H raised a number of complaints about  mis-sold PPI related to both his business and 
personal finances. These different complaints  are being looked at separately as they are not 
interlinked. In this decision I am only considering  the mis-sale of the PPI related to Mr Hs 
business overdraft  on his current account.
During the time the business  current account  was open Mr H did at different times have two 
different partners. Each time there was a change  in partners the account number changed. 
But the PPI policy was only one policy that ran alongside the account and covered Mr H. The 
account was closed in January 2007  and the debt outstanding referred to HSBCs debt 
recovery agents. Mr H was the person who paid the full debt and so was the one who 
eventually repaid all the costs of the PPI. So Im satisfied that Mr H is person who should  
receive the compensation for the PPI policy.
When working out the amount of compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy we expect a 
business to put the consumer as far as possible in the position they would have been if they 
hadnt bought the policy. This means all premiums paid, any interest caused by those 
premiums and also some compensatory interest for being out of pocket should form part of 
the compensation.
If the PPI itself caused any consequential  losses as a direct result of paying for it then these 
should also be refunded to the consumer.
Ref: DRN79960182Mr H opened his business current account in January 2004.  I have  not been provided  with a 
full set of statements for the account  by either  the business or Mr H. But they have both 
provided some statements covering various  dates from when the account first opened to 
January 2007  when  the account was closed.
HSBC has limited data available about the account as it does not have full records and is not 
legally obliged to keep records for more  than six years.
The first statement is in February 2004 and shows that £30 was charged for the first 
payment for the PPI. The same  amount  was charged in March  2004 but then the cover  
increased and so the premiums increased to £40 each month. The PPI ran until August 2005  
when the policy was cancelled. The last premium  paid of £40 on 8 August 2005  was actually 
refunded on 11 August  2005, as shown  in the statements. So in total Mr H paid £700 for the 
costs of the PPI premiums.
In its first offer HSBC only included two premiums  of £40 and this resulted in its offer of 
£139.85. Its later offer showed premiums  paid of £1,280 as it had worked out that premiums 
had been paid from February 2004 to the account  closure in January  2007. So it has actually 
included over £500 of premiums  more than were actually paid.
The premiums for the PPI policy were paid for monthly, taken from the business  current 
account. So if this account was in credit Mr H wouldve paid no interest  on the premium. But 
where his account  was overdrawn he wouldve paid interest at the overdraft rate on the 
premiums.
I think it likely that Mr H did pay interest  on the premiums charged  at the overdraft rate, 
which was generally  5% above  the standard bank rate of interest.  In its calculation for the 
compensation HSBC  has not included overdraft rate interest. It has however included 8% 
simple interest on the amount of each premium from the date it was paid to the date of its 
calculation. 
8% simple  interest is paid as compensation to a consumer for being  out of pocket. If Mr H 
paid the PPI premium  from his overdraft then he wasnt actually out of pocket. So HSBC 
would only pay overdraft  interest on the premiums  or 8% simple interest, not both.
Having considered the rates of overdraft interest  applicable  during the period from 2004  to 
2007, when interest  stopped being charged on the account, a basic calculation  would 
indicate that the interest charged  on the PPI premiums paid may have been around £215. 
So the total cost of the PPI may actually have been about £915.  
Allowing for 8% simple  interest on the first two premiums paid, when the account was in 
credit; then awarding  8% simple on the total costs  of PPI (including  the overdraft interest)  for 
the time Mr H was out of pocket from the end of 2007, would give compensation of around 
£1,600 after tax.
As HSBC has offered  £2,290.66 after tax and said it will honour  that offer, I think  this is fair 
compensation to refund  all the costs  of the PPI on the overdraft and pay some 
compensatory interest.  
I have also considered Mr Hs submissions that the PPI caused  consequential loss and the 
actions of HSBC  caused  a great deal of stress  and upset for Mr H.
Ref: DRN79960183In this decision I am only considering the PPI that was paid for the policy on Mr Hs business 
overdraft. I cannot see from the evidence provided that this particular policy directly caused 
any additional financial loss to Mr H. The total premiums, and possibly overdraft interest, 
would only be around £900. 
Mr H went into debt and when the account  was closed  in January 2007 the amount owing on 
the overdraft was over £8,000. I dont think the £900  caused  by the PPI that formed  part of 
the overdraft amount,  caused the financial problems for Mr H, as it was only a small 
proportion of the overall debt.
There may be other issues relating to Mr Hs other policies and complaints that could have 
caused this overdraft amount to be higher than it perhaps could have  been.  But I dont think 
the PPI on the overdraft  itself caused other losses. The amount charged for the premiums 
was a fixed amount  each  month and did not vary with the amount of the overdraft.  So Im not 
satisfied this policy caused any consequential losses.
I dont think that HSBC has dealt with Mr Hs complaint well but as their offer of 
compensation is around £600 more than I think it should be, Im not going to award any 
additional amount for any trouble and upset. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think the compensation of £2,290.66 (net of tax) 
offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7996018