K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Saffron Building  Society has refused to allow her to transfer the entire  
balance of a savings account  into another savings  account.
Mrs J is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr J but, for ease, I will refer to Mrs J 
throughout.
background
In November 2018 Mrs J wanted to transfer  the balance  of a maturing 12 month  savings 
account to another 12 month  savings  account  with Saffron. However,  she was told that the 
new account only allowed  a maximum opening  deposit of £200 and subsequent monthly 
deposits of £200, much less than the balance she wanted to transfer.  Mrs J wasnt  happy 
that Saffron refused to carry out her instructions. She noted a statement  in the form she 
completed that said that cheque withdrawals were allowed up to a maximum limit of 
£100,000 per day, which she believes created the impression that the new account must 
allow for deposits of more  than £200. 
Saffron said that the product literature for the account makes it clear  that the maximum 
opening deposit for the account is £200.  However, it accepted that the sentence relating to 
withdrawals of £100,000 wouldnt apply to this account as it wouldnt be possible to have a 
balance of this level in the account. As such, it intended to change the wording in the 
literature to say that withdrawals were allowed up to the maximum balance  of the account. 
Mrs J wasnt happy and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint as she didnt  think  Saffron had done  anything wrong. She listened to a telephone 
call between  Mrs J and Saffron and looked at the account information,  and thought  Mrs J 
was clearly informed that it wasnt possible for all of the funds to be put into this one new 
account. She said that some of the wording wasnt as clear  as it could have been and may 
have led Mrs J to think she could deposit  more than allowed, but thought  the telephone call 
and the account information made  it clear  that the maximum  monthly  deposit  was less than 
the £100,000 mentioned in the wording. She noted  that Saffron had taken action to make  
that wording clearer.
As Mrs J remains unhappy, her complaint has been  passed to me to make  a final decision. 
Mrs J said she acted in accordance with the forms sent to her and Saffron has failed to carry 
out her instructions. She says shes being deprived of a higher rate of interest she could 
have earned elsewhere.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will be disappointing  to Mrs J 
but, having done so, I find that I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
I can understand why Mrs J was upset  with Saffron. She wanted to re-deposit  the maturing 
balance from a Saffron  12 month  savings account into another, similar, account and believed  
this would be straightforward. But she was told there  was a limit on how much  she could 
deposit into this new account and Saffron  instead deposited the balance  of the old account  
into an easy access account,  which attracts a lower interest rate.
Ref: DRN72062732However, having looked at the information  she was given, I think it was clear  that she 
couldnt transfer all of the balance from one account to the other, even  though I know  thats  
what she wanted to do. While there is nothing on the maturity renewal form itself which 
highlights the deposit limit on the new account,  the leaflet accompanying it does advise the 
reader to read and review  the product specific terms and conditions  if theyd like to reinvest 
the maturing funds. The terms and conditions for the new account Mrs J wanted to open  
clearly state that the maximum opening  deposit  and regular monthly deposit is £200.  
Mrs J has said that the product information  for the new account says that you can withdraw 
up to £100,000 by cheque, in branch or by post, which  she believes appears to confirm  that 
the total balance could  exceed the deposit and 12 monthly payments of £200. Saffron have 
accepted that this couldnt possibly apply to this account because of the deposit  limits  and 
have now changed  the wording to say that cheque withdrawals  are allowed up to the 
maximum balance of the account.  I can see why this sentence might have caused  some 
confusion. However,  I agree with our investigator  that the literature provided by Saffron 
makes it sufficiently clear that it wouldnt be possible to transfer more than £200 from Mrs Js 
maturing account  into this new account.  
As Saffron couldnt complete Mrs Js instructions, it transferred the balance of her maturing 
account into an easy access  account.  This was in line with its terms and conditions  which  
said that the easy access account  was the default  account and would be used if the account 
holder chose not to do anything. I think that was reasonable, particularly as Mrs J hadnt 
given it any new instructions once she was told about the deposit  limits  on the new 12 month  
savings account.  The easy access account attracts a lower rate of interest than the new 
savings account  Mrs J wanted to open  but there is nothing  preventing her from re-investing 
that money in an account with a higher rate of interest if she chooses to do so.
In light of the above, I dont think Saffron have treated  Mrs J unfairly. It apologised for the 
lack of clarity  in some  of the wording in its literature and took action to clarify that. I dont 
think it needs to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7206273