K821x#15complaint
Mrs N has complained about HSBC Bank Plc. She is unhappy about commission it has 
received after arranging a stakeholder pension for her in 2006.  She believes the commission 
payments were hidden  and there  has been disinformation about them.  She says that if 
there had been  full disclosure she may have  chosen to pay a fee for the advice instead of 
paying by way of commission.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below.
I said that I intended to uphold  the complaint and increase the award to one of £300 in total 
(a further  payment £250). Thats because HSBC did give incorrect information about 
commission at the outset. When it corrected that misinformation it gave an explanation that 
was incomplete. During the course of this complaint it then restated  that no trail commission  
had been paid. This was only corrected after it was sent the payment details the pension  
provider had given  confirming payments had been made.
HSBC responded  and said that it had already paid £550 to Mrs N.
Mrs N responded and noted surprise  that it was only now that HSBC  and the provider 
agreed that commission payments had been  made  and received, in error, without anyone 
noticing. She asked  if further commission payments would be made.  But she accepted the 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional  decision. I note what  HSBC has said,  but 
having reviewed  the correspondence Im satisfied that a payment of £500  made  in March 
2017 related to other issues and not directly to the issue of the hidden commission which  is 
the crux of this complaint.  So I think a further payment of £250  is fair. 
I note what Mrs N has said about  future commission payments. The pension  provider  isnt a 
party to this complaint and so I cant make any directions about what it must do. It is perhaps 
best if Mrs N confirms  to the pension  provider that no future commission payments should 
be made. There can then be no doubt  about  who is responsible if payments were made.
Mrs N has been misinformed at times and I can understand her surprise  that it has taken 
quite some effort to get to the crux of the issues. But based  on the evidence I have seen, Im 
satisfied with the conclusions Ive reached in my provisional decision.
So for these reasons, and for those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN79718472my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay Mrs N £300 for distress and 
inconvenience (a further £250). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79718473extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs N has complained about  HSBC Bank Plc. She is unhappy about  commission  it has received  after 
arranging a stakeholder pension for her in 2006. She believes  the commission  payments were  
hidden and there has been disinformation  about  them.  She says that if there had been full 
disclosure she may have chosen to pay a fee for the advice instead of paying  by way of commission.
background 
Mrs N took advice in 2006 along with her husband. I understand HSBC  provided advice  on a number 
of different investments. This complaint is about the advice to arrange  a single  premium stakeholder 
pension for Mrs N. 
Essentially, she says that she was not properly  informed  about  the charges and commission 
arrangements and therefore  wasnt  in a fully informed position when decisions were  made.
When responding  to the complaint HSBC initially denied  receiving any trail commission on this 
pension plan.  It corrected  this statement in a later response when it accepted that some trail 
commission had been paid over the years. It explained that this was a feature of this type of pension 
plan and the commission was built-in. It offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused by the error in 
its original explanation.
That offer wasnt accepted  and the case was referred to this service. An adjudicator  considered  the 
complaint but she decided that it shouldnt be upheld. She thought  the offer was fair. She said that the 
commission payable had been illustrated at the time of sale and was unlikely to be more than the 
charges if the advice had been arranged  on a fee basis instead.
Mrs N didnt agree and then the case was considered by another adjudicator. He also didnt think  the 
complaint should be upheld, but his reasoning was different. Despite receiving another denial from 
HSBC that commission had been  received,  he was able to obtain details of the actual commission  
payments from the pension provider. These included  an initial payment of around £140 and then 
further payments  over the years after further contributions  were  made. The total commission 
payments were just under  £600.
The adjudicator was also told by the pension provider  that trail commission had been  paid to HSBC in 
error. The plan had not provided for the payment of trail commission to HSBC  when it was arranged.
The adjudicator said that there had been no loss to Mrs N. The commission was paid from the 
providers charges  and not deducted from her fund. 
Mrs N didnt accept that view. As no agreement has been reached and the case  has been referred to 
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out a very brief overview of the complaint above but I have read everything.  I think its fair to 
say that there have been twists and turns along the way in this complaint  as the evidence has 
developed. So in this decision I want to focus on what we know now rather than on the history and 
development of the evidence.
The policy provider has told us that commission  has been paid to HSBC over the years.  Trail 
commission wasnt disclosed at the outset as it should normally be. But it has gone on to say that 
Ref: DRN79718474according to its records, HSBC didnt ask for trail commission to be paid and so these payments have 
been made in error. 
The provider has also said that although commission has been paid, this doesnt impact on the value 
of the plan as any commission is deducted from its charges and not from the pension  fund itself. Its 
charges would be the same whether commission was paid or not. 
Ive no reason to doubt the evidence  from the pension provider. And based upon that evidence I dont 
think that I can conclude that Mrs N was misled by HSBC at the outset about the most effective 
payment method. It does  seem that the HSBC advisers intention was to set up this pension plan with 
a one-off commission payment and without any trail commission. The trail commission payments 
made with further contributions have,  according  to the provider, been made  in error. It wasnt  what 
HSBC planned or requested.
In that sense, Mrs N was fully informed  about what  HSBC  intended to happen  about commission - 
although that is not what actually happened. Based upon what HSBC intended, I cant  see how it 
would have been in Mrs Ns interest to choose a different charging arrangement. She would  not have 
been better off paying a fee instead of commission  as the expected commission was relatively  small, 
around £140,  and HSBC  wasnt  arranging to receive  trail commission.
The pension  provider wrote to Mrs N in 2013  and said that commission was being paid and gave her 
the option  to stop the payments if she wished. But so far as Im aware she didnt choose to stop them 
at that time as further payments have been made.
Im not satisfied the value of Mrs Ns pension has been  affected by the commission payments. Thats  
because I accept  what  the pension provider  has said about these  payments  being paid from its 
annual charges  and not from her pension fund. So I dont think it would be fair to direct that HSBC 
repay them  as there is no loss to Mrs N and so repayment would place her in a better position.
Its not within  the remit of this complaint to direct HSBC  to make any repayment to the pension 
provider and this is a matter  between it and HSBC.
HSBC has already paid Mrs N £50 for trouble and upset and has offered an additional £100.
Im currently  minded to increase this award to one of £300 in total (a further £250). Thats because  
HSBC did give incorrect information about commission  at the outset. When it corrected that 
misinformation it gave  an explanation  that was incomplete. During the course of this complaint it then 
restated that no trail commission had been paid. This was only corrected after it was sent the 
payment details the pension provider had sent.
I fully accept that these inconsistencies  will have been a cause of repeated frustration  and 
consternation for Mrs N, and so I think an award  of £300 is more appropriate.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  this complaint  about HSBC Bank Plc and award £300 for trouble  and 
upset.
This is my provisional decision and may change depending on any response I receive.
Ref: DRN7971847