K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy Union  Reiseversicherung  AG (URV) has turned down a claim on his travel 
insurance.
background
In July 2017 Mr C took out travel insurance  with URV for his trip in August 2017.  At this time 
he declared that he, his son and his daughter suffered from medical conditions. Whilst on 
holiday Mr Cs daughter  was trapped in her hotel  room as the door became jammed. 
Following this incident the family  decided to return home early.  Mr C says his daughter was 
unwell, not eating or sleeping and feeling  extremely anxious. They were concerned this 
stress would  exacerbate  her existing medical  condition, as she suffered from epilepsy.
On their return Mr C put in a claim to URV  for their flights home. URV declined the claim as it 
said Mr C hadnt consulted a doctor  or contacted its claims  team  whilst abroad. It did 
however ask whether a doctor was consulted on the families return home and asked for 
details of Mr Cs daughters medical history.  On receipt of this information URV maintained 
the claim should be declined. It said that Mr Cs daughter  was being investigated for 
behavioural problems and anxiety  before  he took out this cover, so it considered the family  
had to return home due to an existing medical issue which was under investigation  
something it didnt offer cover for. It said that the policy wasnt  fit for purpose  on this basis,  
so it offered  to refund Mr C his premium.
Mr C wasnt happy with the offer as he said they didnt return due to an undeclared existing 
condition. He maintained his claim  should be paid so he brought  his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint so he asked for a final decision. He said that 
they couldnt remain abroad as the incident in the room  meant  it was likely her declared 
condition wouldve made her very ill and shed have been hospitalised,  costing far more  than 
hes now claiming. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules  and industry  guidance  URV  has a responsibility  to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive reviewed URVs decision  to decline the claim. On the claim form Mr Cs daughter has 
completed it states that the reason for his daughters  and so the familys  return is due to 
severe anxiety. And the doctor has said that Mr Cs daughter was first referred to a specialist 
due to concerns  about her mood and behaviour  before Mr C took out the cover. The 
doctors notes (from  her appointments  following  the familys  return home)  also support that 
shed been suffering from anxiety and behavioural problems for some time and that shed 
been attending a unit at a specialist secondary school since  September 2017, which  was just 
a short  time after the family returned home. The notes also detail that shed already been 
attending this school for an hour a day during the last part of the 2017 summer  term. So it 
seems she may have been attending this school  before the cover was bought  and certainly 
had attended  before the holiday took place. They detail  that shes on a waiting list for further 
assessment.
Ref: DRN78691312Considering the evidence  available, Im satisfied that Mr Cs daughter was suffering from 
behavioural issues and anxiety prior to the insurance being bought. Mr C is arguing  that the 
reason they needed to cancel the trip was due to the impact being  locked in her room  had on 
his daughter  so this was likely to exacerbate her epilepsy.
Ive reviewed the doctors notes but as Ive set out above, they state anxiety as the reason 
the family  needed  to return home.  I havent  been provided with any medical evidence to 
show that Mr Cs daughters epilepsy was the predominant reason  the trip had to be cut 
short  so I dont  think its unreasonable for URV to conclude it was cut short due to her 
behavioural issues and her anxiety. I appreciate Mr Cs point that this couldve made her 
other condition worse, so they came home to avoid that situation. But the primary reason 
they came  home therefore is her anxiety  and the impact this had on her, even  if their 
decision was reinforced by his daughters other condition.
Ive also considered Mr Cs point that a psychiatrist didnt consider his daughter had a 
psychiatric problem. But that doesnt change the fact that she was still being  investigated  
and awaiting  a diagnosis  from another department.  The doctors notes record  her mother  as 
saying she thinks her daughters problems are due to her anxiety and they ask for the neuro-
developmental team to expedite her appointment.  Its clear in the policy terms and conditions 
that no cover  will be provided for any medical  conditions under investigation and I think the 
doctors notes make  it clear  there  is still a medical investigation taking place around the 
cause of the behavioural problems. So I dont think its unreasonable for URV  to decline the 
claim.
As URV has set out that it doesnt offer cover for any medical  conditions  which  are being 
investigated and havent yet been  diagnosed, its offered to refund Mr C the premiums he 
paid for the policy. It doesnt think the insurance was fit for purpose considering  the ongoing 
investigations into his daughters behavioural issues and the limited  cover available  when  
the policy was bought.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt consider his daughter had a pre-existing condition, but Ive 
explained above why I dont think its unreasonable for URV to reject the claim on that basis.  
Ive reviewed the information he wouldve been presented with when he took out the cover 
and in his documentation. I think this makes  it clear that conditions  under investigation wont  
be covered. And considering the severe  impact  it seems his daughters health was having on 
the family  and that she was attending a specialist school with plans to go there  full time 
before the trip, I think he shouldve known it could  affect their holiday.  So I think  URVs offer 
to refund the premium paid is fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7869131