K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that BUPA Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with the transfer  of his health insurance policy to its sister business in Spain. He wants 
matters put right.
background
Mr B had a health insurance policy with BUPA in the UK. Mr B moved to Spain and wanted 
to transfer his policy from the UK to BUPAs  sister  insurer in Spain. He said that it didnt act 
fairly or reasonably when dealing with the transfer and took too long.
Mr B complained to BUPA.  It said Mr Bs transfer  took some time,  but this was caused by 
delays Mr Bs broker asking for an unnecessary medical history from BUPA. BUPA said that 
it couldnt provide  such information and this was normally  provided  by a doctor via a report;  it 
also said that the Spanish insurer  didnt  need  this information as it was a transfer and BUPA  
had provided the information needed in 2017.  It accepted that it knew Mr B was happy for 
his information  to be shared with his broker and agreed that thered been a communication 
breakdown between itself, the Spanish  insurer and Mr Bs broker. It said that the transfer 
shouldnt have taken  so long; BUPA felt its staff couldve contacted  the Spanish direct  to sort 
matters out, rather than involve Mr B. It paid £250  compensation.
Mr B complained to us, saying that he had emails from 2015  confirming that a transfer 
should be straightforward and the delays had caused him financial loss (as BUPAs  
premiums were higher  for Mr B than the Spanish  insurer). BUPA  said that it believed Mr B 
hadnt realised  until late into the process that he was dealing with a broker, not an employee 
of the Spanish  insurer, and it was the brokers failures that led to confusion and delay. 
The investigators view was that BUPAs service  hadnt been good  enough, particularly when 
it promised to send  the broker a medical  history, which it couldnt actually send. Incorrect  
information was given, communication broke down and some  delay was caused in her 
opinion by BUPA. But the investigator thought £250  compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances so the complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mr B disagreed. He said that hed overpaid for months due to BUPAs  failures  and the 
transfer shouldve  been straightforward. The investigator said that three parties  were  
involved in the transfer  BUPA, the Spanish insurer and the broker.  She didnt think  BUPA  
was entirely and solely responsible for the delay and the Spanish insurer  at first refused  to 
give Mr B insurance, which was outside  of BUPAs control.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  accept that BUPAs service  hasnt been good enough. The core of this 
complaint really is about the fact that Mr B feels he paid higher premiums  for longer than he 
shouldve had to do, before the Spanish  insurer agreed to cover him and his wife. The 
transfer took several months from when Mr B decided to proceed  until the Spanish insurance 
was in place.
Ref: DRN76630502But BUPA never gave  any guarantee or timescale for the transfer; the word  straightforward 
mayve been used in 2015, but thats  not an indication of the time required. Its also 
important to note that I can only deal with any failures by BUPA, not anyone else,  including  
the Spanish insurer and the broker. This means  the decision to initially refuse to insure by 
the Spanish insurer is outside the scope of this complaint, but this was part of the delay.
The evidence available to me shows that what BUPA needed to do to assist  Mr B was to 
provide a transfer form and confirm if there were any exclusions from the policy  and the 
claims history. BUPA did this promptly at an early  stage.  The difficulty was that the broker  
asked for the medical history of Mr B and his wife, which was something BUPA  couldnt  
provide. It seems that the broker  was acting as if this was a new application,  not a transfer,  
but this isnt certain. 
Where BUPA went wrong,  as it accepts, is that it at first agreed to provide a medical history 
and failed to arrange for its staff to contact  the Spanish insurer  direct to correct  the 
communication issues. But I cant say BUPA alone is responsible for the delays as third 
parties were  involved and contributed to the situation. And I note that BUPA did what  it 
needed to do early on; it was the broker and the Spanish insurer  who then took over.  And I 
cant say BUPA caused a particular amount of financial  loss to Mr B as the Spanish insurer  
refused to insure  him and his wife initially and others contributed to the delays.
In the circumstances of this case,  I think compensation only for the trouble and upset caused 
by BUPA  to Mr B is fair and reasonable. Money never truly compensates for trouble  and 
upset, and I note that Mr Bs response  to the investigator doesnt challenge the £250 award;  
its mainly about the alleged  financial loss. Taking into account  the evidence  and the type of 
award this service expects in such cases, I think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable 
and reflects  BUPAs  contribution to the trouble and upset felt by Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
23 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7663050