K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains Santander UK Plc (Santander)  failed to keep his credit card account  safe 
and secure, which  led to him cutting short his trip abroad. 
background
Mr E regularly uses his Santander  credit  card whilst travelling abroad. 
On 13 October 2018, Santanders fraud  detection systems identified  what  it considered 
unusual activity on Mr Es credit card account. Santander failed to stop the first unusual  
transaction, but it did manage to stop all subsequent  attempts and blocked Mr Es card until 
it had spoken  to him. 
Mr E, confirmed he was abroad, his card was still in his possession and that the suspected  
transactions had not been made by him. Santander  immediately refunded the payment 
which it had accepted and informed Mr E it would need to cancel his card. 
Mr E asked Santander not to cancel the card as he was abroad and without access  to any 
other cards or cash. Santander  explained  to Mr E that it was not able to do this and 
cancelled the card. 
Mr E complained to Santander that as a result of its failure to correctly authenticate the 
transactions, cancelling his credit card and by not couriering a replacement  to him  he had 
no means to pay for food,  fuel and accommodation,  so had to cut his trip short,  returning  to 
the UK on 17 October 2018, two days earlier than his scheduled  return date which  resulted 
in additional costs. He asked that Santander  cover  the additional cost he incurred and also 
compensate him for the stress and anxiety  of being  stranded abroad with no means of 
payment.   
Further Mr E also complained that Santander called his former partners home  which 
caused him additional stress at a time that was already very stressful  and difficult. 
Santander didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. In summary it said that it had followed its process  
to safeguard him and prevent further fraudulent transactions on his account. It said its 
records show that for the unauthorised transactions the card number, expiry  date and CVV 
was entered and resulted  in a match. It also said that customers  when travelling abroad 
should take with them more than one source of payment for eventualities such  as these. 
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr E referred  his complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into things. She empathised with Mr E but didnt think  that Santander 
had made  any errors or acted unfairly. She didnt  think it needed to do anything more  here.  
Mr E disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. Mr E still thinks if Santander  had carried  out two factor  authentication, it wouldve 
prevented fraudulent use of his credit card. Its failure to do so, has led to him incurring 
additional costs   which he would like Santander  to cover.   
Ref: DRN79352152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr E feels about  whats happened and he will likely  be 
disappointed with my decision. But I dont  think Santander made a mistake or did anything 
wrong when it followed  its procedures to protect his account from potential fraudulent 
transactions. Im unable  to agree that the difficulties Mr E encountered  are something I can 
fairly hold Santander  responsible for. Let me explain why. 
Im satisfied that when  Mr E advised  Santander that hed not carried out the transactions in 
question, it treated him fairly. It immediately refunded the disputed  transaction and explained 
that it had to cancel  and re-issue  his credit card. 
I understand Mr E didnt  want this, as he was abroad at the time, with only a small amount of 
cash, without  access  to any other cards and cancelling  his card resulted in him having to cut 
his trip short.  But Santander has a responsibility  to protect its customer accounts from 
potential fraudulent transactions and when  it became clear  that Mr Es credit  card details had 
been compromised; Santander had a duty to cancel his card to prevent  any further fraud.  
I note Mr E did made a request to keep the card active as he had no other means of 
payments whilst abroad, but by not cancelling the card there was a risk that further 
unauthorised transactions may continue  to debit Mr Es account. And for this reason 
Santander took the decision  to cancel the compromised card, to protect Mr E and its own 
position. I cant see that it has acted unfairly by doing so.
I appreciate Mr E feels strongly  that Santander didnt carry out adequate authentication, as it 
suggests it had in its letter dated  1 November 2018 when it says that our records show  the 
card number, expiry date and CVV was entered and resulted in a match. 
Ive considered the technical data and I agree  with Mr E and can see the transaction was not 
authenticated as Santander  had informed him. But Ive not seen any evidence that leads me 
to conclude that this was anything other  than an oversight by Santander. It shouldve been  
clearer and explained  that the transactions took place by the merchant keying in the details.  
Mr E feels  Santander failed in its responsibility  to keep his account safe by not performing 
two factor  authentications and allowed the first transaction  to debit his account. He believes 
had it done so, this wouldve thwarted the fraudsters as they did not know the CVV number 
or PIN associated with the credit  card.  
Firstly, there  is no way to know with any certainty  what details have been compromised. 
There are many sophisticated ways in which a fraudster couldve  obtained  Mr Es credit card 
details and could  subsequently use those  details to make purchases. 
Besides payment methods  in the country Mr E had travelled to differ to the UK. The most 
common form of payment is insert/swipe and sign. Further since  April 2018 some card 
networks including MasterCard and Visa even decided to remove the requirement for 
signatures on purchases  making it possible to just simply swipe  or insert  a card.  
Ref: DRN79352153Notwithstanding even if I were to agree  with Mr E, it wouldnt change the fact that his credit 
card details had been  compromised and consequentially Santander still wouldve had to 
cancel and re-issue his credit card  which wouldve  resulted in the same  outcome. 
Its unfortunate Mr E had to cut his trip short, but I dont think it would  be fair to hold 
Santander responsible for this. There was always a risk, when  travelling with just one credit 
card as means of payment that issues like this could arise.  The card could have  been  lost or 
stolen for example. And Mr Es decision to travel without additional cash  or cards directly 
impacted on his need to return home  early.  In these circumstances, as I dont think  
Santander did anything  wrong  I dont  think it would be fair to hold it responsible for the 
consequences of a decision Mr E himself  made.
Mr E thinks  Santander couldve done  more by shipping  a replacement card to him  he 
knows of other banks who offer this service.  Im unable to comment  on the type of products 
or services other card issuers provide, but Santander has said,  this isnt a service it 
provides. And whether  or not Santander  provides this service to its customers  is something 
for it to decide as a business. Its not something it was obligated to do  so I dont think 
Santander has treated  Mr E unfairly. 
My role here is limited  to considering Santanders actions, rather than those of the fraudster 
or merchants. And on this basis, taking everything  into consideration I cant  say Santander  
has acted wrongly here. 
telephone calls
Mr E claims Santander has incorrectly stated that theyve no record of any phone calls being 
attempted or made to him to verify  the transactions. He is also unhappy Santander called his 
former partner, which caused him additional stress. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Es account  state; 20.9 Our fraud detection  systems  
highlight suspicious spending  patterns. We may call you if suspicious Transactions appear  
on your account. These calls may include computer generated speech. 
They also state  that the customer must tell Santander if their contact details change. 
I can confirm Santanders  automated  system  made several unsuccessful calls to Mr Es 
mobile number on 14 October 2018.  As Mr Es former partners number was still recorded as 
one of his registered numbers, it also called  this number to try to speak to him.
As per the terms and conditions of Mr Es account, it was his responsibility to keep his 
contact details with Santander up to date.  Mr E has said he visited a Santander branch 
sometime in February 2017; he made a request to close an account, update his address and 
wouldve changed his telephone number during this visit. 
Ive not seen any evidence to support that Mr E made a request to change  his contact 
number. Had he done so, there was no reason why Santander wouldnt have actioned  it. So 
on balance I cant reasonably find Santander  did anything wrong here. 
Ref: DRN79352154my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935215