K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Investec Bank PLC (Investec) mis-represented  an Easy Access  account 
to him. And provided inaccurate  information about what he needed to do to access  the funds  
in the account when  the ability to make  international transfers was removed. Mr S says he 
has been deprived of the funds held in the account.   
background 
Mr S and his wife live abroad but hold a joint sterling account in the UK with Investec.
Mr S says that the account was opened as a High Interest Current  Account (HICA). But at 
some point the account was changed  over to an Easy Access Account. It appears that Mr S 
cant recall exactly why the account  was changed  he says Investec switched the account. 
But he has also said that  although  the Easy  Access Account offered a lower rate of interest 
than the other account hed had, he was told the Easy Access  account offered the facility to 
do international transfers. And that this was a benefit he was interested  in.
And Mr S has explained that on at least a couple  of occasions hed been able to set up an 
international transfer but that he didnt complete them due to the exchange rate available. So 
he says had every reason  to believe this facility existed on the account.  
But when he wanted to make an international transfer in June  2018,  he found the facility  had 
been removed.  He was told to open a US dollar  account so that he could do the transfers he 
needed to do. But having tried to open  such an account, he was told he wasnt  eligible for it.
Investec says it withdrew the HICA  from its product range in 2014.  And that it wrote to all 
account holders  in 2014 to tell them  about  the withdrawal and to offer three alternatives for 
the funds in the accounts  one of which was to open an Easy  Access  account. It says Mr S 
applied for this account on-line. 
Investec has explained that the Easy Access  account wasnt intended  to offer the facility to 
do international transfers. But it has acknowledged  that it found  that some  on-line  account  
holders had been able to do them. But when this came to light, it removed  the facility.  
So Investec  hasnt disputed that Mr S might have been able to set up international transfers 
between the date the account opened and June 2018. And it has acknowledged and 
apologised for the problems  Mr S had when he tried to make his transfer in early  June 2018. 
But to resolve the immediate  problem  it allowed Mr S to make  the transfer he needed  to - the 
payment was made on 18 June 2018.  Investec  has also said that it wrote  to all                           
Easy Access  account holders and allowed them to continue to make international payments 
to 31 December 2018. 
Investec has also acknowledged that it wrongly  told Mr S to open  an US dollar account as he 
wasnt eligible for that type of account. In its response to Mr S complaint it again apologised 
for this incorrect information.
Mr S didnt think Investec had done enough to put things right, so he complained to this 
service. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint. Ultimately, she didnt think that 
Investec had mis-represented the Easy Access account to Mr S. She said the terms and 
conditions had always stated the account  was a sterling only account. But she did 
acknowledge that it was frustrating for Mr S when he found  that a facility hed got used to 
had been withdrawn. But she felt the banks offer - to allow Mr S to make the transfer he 
Ref: DRN71267432needed to make and to allow account  holders (including Mr S) to continue to do international 
transfers up to 31 December 2018,  was fair in the circumstances. But she did think 
compensation was due for the inconvenience  Mr S incurred when he was told to open a    
US dollar  account.  She recommended  that Investec should pay Mr S £150 for the 
inconvenience suffered. 
Investec accepted the investigators recommendation.  But Mr S didnt. In summary he said 
that: 
account holders  should have been told to withdraw their funds when  the HICA was 
discontinued;
Investec took four years to realise  the error which he thinks  is gross negligence and 
should be reported to the regulator;
other banks offer accounts with the facility to do international  transfers;  
a sterling only account does not mean international transfers are not allowed;
he hasnt seen  any communication that clearly indicates that the International 
transfers arent available with the Easy Access account; 
the compensation offered is too low. He would  like Investec to pay 3% on the 
balance of his account before the transfer was made and for the on-line function to 
do international transfers to be reinstated. 
As Mr S doesnt agree with the investigators  recommendation,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to broadly the same  conclusions as the investigator.  I realise     
Mr S will be disappointed by my decision so Ill explain why.
Firstly, there  appears to be some  confusion about  how Mr S came to hold an Easy  Access  
account. Mr S says Investec switched  his existing account to the Easy  Access Account but 
should have offered alternative options.  Investec said Mr S original account  the HICA, was 
being withdrawn.  And it has provided us with a copy of a letter which  it says was sent to all 
HICA account holders. The letter gives three  options. Option three says open an                        
Easy Access  account  and option two says withdraw or transfer your balance  by completing 
the closure instruction form. And Ive listened to a call recording from August 2014 between  
Investec and Mr S which refers to the account opening and a copy  of the Investecs Easy 
Access account opening checklist which indicates Mr S applied for the Easy Access  account 
online.
 
So I think, on balance,  its most  likely that Mr S received this letter  and so wouldve been  
aware that he could  have  chosen to withdraw his funds had he wanted to. But he chose to 
open the Easy Access Account instead.  
But I think the crux of this complaint is about whether or not Mr S was told he could do 
international transfers. And that he hasnt seen any documentation which shows this facility 
was never  available on this type of account.  Our investigator said that the terms and 
conditions of the account have always said the Easy Access account was a sterling  only 
account. But I agree with Mr S that this - in itself,  doesnt mean the account  holder is 
Ref: DRN71267433prevented from doing international transfers.  So Ive looked at the information available to 
me from when the account was opened.  
Having done so, I cant be sure if Mr S was told he could do international transfers. And I 
accept that the general account terms and conditions for Investec account holders  indicates 
that  at least on some of its product range,  international  transfers can be done. But I dont 
think I need to make  a finding on this point. Investec  has not disputed that due to a technical 
error, Easy Access account holders were able to do international transfers  on-line,  and Mr S 
has described that he was able to set up a transfer  (although he didnt complete them). So I 
think Investec did give Mr S the expectation  that he could do international transfers 
regardless of what was or wasnt said when the account was opened or what was in the 
Easy Access  account literature.  
But that doesnt mean that I should uphold this part of Mr S complaint. When  an error has 
been made, our role it to consider what impact the error had on the account holder and if a 
financial loss and/or material distress and inconvenience  has been incurred. So Ive gone on 
to think very carefully about the impact  it had on Mr S when he found out he couldnt do 
international transfers and what Investec did to put things  right.
And I can see that Investec very quickly allowed Mr S to complete the transfer he needed to 
make. And he has confirmed that he didnt make  a financial loss as a result. I note Mr S has 
told us that he has been deprived of the funds still in the account after the transfer had been  
made. But Ive seen correspondence from Investec  explaining to account holders that they 
could continue to make international transfers  up to the end of 2018. And Mr S has told us 
he held other sterling accounts (one of which allowed international transfers)  in the UK. So I 
think Mr S could  have either  - transferred the funds internationally  before the end of 2018,  or 
to the sterling  account he held elsewhere  had he wanted to. Overall, I think  Investec  did 
enough to put things  right in Mr S circumstances  and Im not persuaded that Mr S was 
deprived of his funds.  
I note Mr S has commented on the time taken by Investec to realise it was allowing  on-line  
account holders  to do international transfers. And I understand Mr S concerns. But our role 
is not to punish a business when it makes  a mistake  that would be something  for the 
regulator to consider. Our role is to look at individual complaints to see what impact  the 
mistake had on that individual. But Mr S is able to contact the regulator                           
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), independently if he wishes to do so.  
I also accept that other businesses may offer the kind of service Mr S is looking for. But that 
doesnt mean Investec  has to offer those  services. It is up to an individual business  to decide 
what ancillary services it offers with its product range. Investec has said it didnt  intend  to 
allow Easy Account holders  to make international transfers and Im satisfied thats a decision 
its entitled to make.   
So overall I dont  uphold the crux of Mr S complaint.
 
But like the investigator, I agree that Investec put Mr S to unnecessary inconvenience when 
he was told to open a US dollar  account.  But I think the £150  recommended  by the 
investigator for this mis-information  is fair. I note Mr S is looking for a much larger award and 
hes said that both he and his wife should receive compensation. But any awards we make 
are in recognition of the complaint as a whole and we dont make  compensation awards  
based on the balance of an account. From what Ive seen,  I think  £150 adequately  reflects 
Ref: DRN71267434the time and trouble Mr S went to opening  a US dollar account to then be told he wasnt  
eligible for it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that Investec Bank PLC should  
pay £150 (if it hasnt already done so) for the inconvenience caused  to Mr S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S (on behalf  of 
himself and his wife) to accept or reject my decision before  17 October 2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7126743