K821x#15Complaint
Mr D says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him mortgage payment protection insurance  
(PPI).
Background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint, which  included  the following:
Mr D applied for a mortgage  in 1992  and was sold PPI, as a condition  of it, to protect his 
mortgage payments  for the first five years of the 25-year term. Nationwide says he benefitted 
from a preferential mortgage interest  rate as a result. The PPI paid a monthly  benefit  for up 
to 12 months per claim  if he couldnt  work  due to disability or unemployment.
There was an annual  premium for the PPI policy. Premiums for the first five years  (costing  
£420.42 per year initially)  were added to the amount borrowed and to be repaid over the 
term of the mortgage.  
Mr Ds PPI cover continued after the end of the five-year period but, from that point, it did so 
on an annual  basis and no interest was payable on the premium.
Our adjudicator initially believed  the PPI had been mis-sold and recommended  that the 
complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed and, on reflection, the adjudicator changed their 
mind about  upholding the complaint. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ds case.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The sale in 1992
Much of the paperwork from the time of sales  no longer available  but the parties  agree  that 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D. That said,  Nationwide  still had to give him 
enough information to allow him to make up his own mind  about whether the PPI was right 
for him. The information  had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
On balance, I dont  think the information Nationwide would  have provided  would have  been  
good enough. I say that because the way in which Mr D paid for the PPI for the first five 
years of the mortgage  was relatively complicated. I think  it unlikely, for example, that Mr D 
was told what the overall  cost of the PPI would have been  over the 25-year term of the 
mortgage (if the mortgage had run to term) or how much extra he stood  to pay in interest  for 
the PPI over that period.
The interest alone would have been  a significant amount, given Mr D had entered into such  
a substantial and long-term financial commitment. Further,  I dont  think  it would have been 
Ref: DRN72196942clear that hed potentially have continued to pay for the premiums plus interest  many  years 
after the cover itself had ended.
Ive looked carefully  at the sample documents Nationwides sent us. But the Acceptance of 
Offer of Advance pre-dates the sale by more than a year and the letter explaining that PPI 
was renewed post-dates the sale by around four years. So I cant  fairly say Mr Ds likely to 
have seen documents that looked similar. Even  if he did see them or something similar, Im 
not satisfied either of them  clearly set out the information Ive identified as missing.
In the circumstances I think the missing informations  significant enough to have affected 
Mr Ds decision  to take the PPI.
Ive carefully considered  what Nationwides said about how Mr D paid these premiums:
May I point out that as the cost of the policy for the first 5 years was added  to the 
mortgage advance, the policy  did not incur a separate  interest  on its own. The 
interest charged was on the entire  mortgage  advance which  included  [PPI] premiums  
for the first 5 years  based on the chosen mortgage  product; there  was no separate 
interest charged on the policy  for the period.
I dont accept Nationwides argument  here. The likely effect of the premiums being added  to 
the mortgage was that Mr D ended up borrowing more than he would have had he not taken 
out PPI. That in turn meant  that he was also paying  more interest overall.  That the additional 
borrowing was added  to the mortgage rather than say, being paid for separately,  doesnt 
change this.
Taking everything into account,  I currently believe Mr Ds lost out because of how 
Nationwide sold him the PPI and that it should put things right for him.
Continuation of cover from 1997 onwards
The slightly  unusual way in which  Mr D paid for PPI, for example with interest being added  to 
the premium, didnt apply  from 1997. He essentially paid for the latter on a regular basis and 
without the addition of interest.
As such,  the concerns I have about the sale in 1992 dont necessarily apply  to the second  
sale. Ive considered whether there  are other  grounds on which the PPI added or was 
continued in 1997 might have been mis-sold but I dont think there are.
For instance, given  the gaps in the information thats still available from the time, its possible 
Nationwide didnt make  Mr D aware the PPI was optional (I understand it would have  been  
by that time) or get his agreement before adding it. But Id say its just as likely that 
Nationwide did.
Regarding the other aspects of the sale, and on the basis that I dont think  Nationwide would 
have recommended PPI on this occasion either:
Ive no reason to believe  Mr D wouldnt have been eligible for the PPI or that hed 
have been affected  by the main things  the PPI excluded or limited  cover for.
Mr D was entitled to enhanced  sick pay from his employer  although  I cant currently  
see that he had any other means  of making  his mortgage repayments  if he wasnt  
Ref: DRN72196943working. The PPI benefits  would have  potentially paid out on top of his sick pay and 
for up to 12 months per claim.  It covered him for unemployment too. Overall, I think 
hed have found the protection the PPI provided  to be useful.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr D couldnt  afford the PPI.
With all of that in mind,  I dont find that Mr Ds lost out because of how Nationwide  sold him 
the second PPI policy.  
Putting things  right
Mr D borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI he took out in 1992, so his mortgage was bigger than 
it should have  been. He paid more than he should  have  each month and, if the mortgage 
has ended, it cost him more to repay the mortgage than it would have. So Mr D needs to get 
back the extra hes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr D the difference between  what he paid each month on the 
mortgage and what he would have paid without PPI.
Work  out and pay Mr D the difference between  what it cost to pay off the mortgage and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr D paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr D made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold  this complaint in part. I intend 
to require Nationwide Building Society  to put things right for Mr D as explained above.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. Mr D said he had nothing  further  to add to my provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN72196944Nationwide said it didnt  accept my provisional decision. Among other things, it found it hard 
to believe I wished to uphold part of the complaint  based on assumptions and with no 
evidence to substantiate my findings.  Nationwide noted my concerns about relying on the 
sample Acceptance of Offer of Advance it had provided and sent a sample Offer of 
Advance dating back to just around a month before Mr Ds mortgage and policy  started. It 
felt this showed the cost of the PPI had been  clearly set out. Nationwide also didnt agree 
that another  PPI sale took place  in 1997   rather this was a continuation of the PPI sold in 
1992. 
In summary,  Nationwide believed Mr D would have gone ahead with the PPI in 1992  even  if 
the costs hadnt  been  made  clear  because hed have wanted to access the associated 
mortgage product.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ds case.
Given Mr Ds acceptance of my provisional  decision,  I see no need to discuss  the events of 
1997 in great detail  here. That said, I do find Nationwides  position  regarding what happened 
back then to be somewhat unclear. On the one hand, it refuses  to accept that a further  sale 
took place at that time. But, on the other,  it accepts  the PPI Mr D compulsorily took out in 
1992 had, by that time, ended and that hed have  completed a further application  form in 
order for the cover (and payment of premiums) to continue. So it appears to me as though  a 
second PPI sale did take place.
Regarding the sale in 1992 I dont accept, given  the evidence available,  that Mr D would 
have gone ahead and taken out PPI regardless of what  information  hed been given about 
its costs. It remains  the case that he was paying interest on the first five years of premiums 
at the same  rate as his mortgage. Im satisfied  the increased borrowing and related interest  
would have been significant  amounts.
Im grateful  to Nationwide for providing more documentation from just prior to the time of the 
sale in order to shed  more light on whats likely  to have happened. Its possible that the 
Offer of Advance  is the same as Mr D would have seen in 1992, or at least similar. But, 
while I can see this would  have set out what premiums Mr D was due to pay over the first 
five years of the mortgage, I cant see where the interest payable  on those premiums was 
set out separately   or what  the sum of the premiums plus interest was. I remain  of the view 
that this was important  information, the absence of which represented  a significant failing in 
the sale.
Taking everything into account,  including Nationwides response to my provisional decision, I 
still believe  it mis-sold  the PPI to Mr D in 1992.  
Ref: DRN72196945My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Nationwide  
Building Society to put things right for Mr D as explained in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7219694