K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Miss A have complained that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
avoided their commercial vehicle policy. 
background
Mr A and Miss A bought  a policy in October  2017  via a broker.  Mr A and Miss A said the 
broker made some mistakes when setting  up the policy. Tradewise carried  out some checks  
to validate the policy  and when doing so said Mr A and Miss A had given incorrect  
information when  buying it. It said theyd incorrectly said they hadnt had any accidents,  
losses or claims in the last three  years. It also said it hadnt  been able to validate Miss As no 
claims discount (NCD). 
Tradewise said Mr A and Miss A had provided a document showing Miss A as having  
accumulated five years NCD.  But Tradewise said it had called the previous insurer whod 
issued the NCD  and that insurer said they hadnt  issued that document  and it had been 
fraudulently amended. Tradewise avoided (which means to cancel from the start as though it 
never existed) the policy and kept the premium as it said the policy allowed it to. 
Mr A and Miss A said they hadnt amended  the document and theyd answered the question 
about accidents and claims to the best of their knowledge. They  said one claim was more 
than three  years ago and they didnt know about the other claim. They  said the previous 
insurer had initially sent them a NCD document showing three years NCD and when theyd 
queried this as it was wrong it resent the document showing five years. They  brought  their 
complaint to us. They said Tradewise shouldnt  have asked for Miss As NCD because  she 
shouldnt have been on the policy. They wanted Tradewise to refund their premium and 
compensate them for the weekly policies theyd needed to buy as a result of having  the 
policy avoided.
Our investigator contacted the previous insurer about the NCD. The insurer said it had sent 
one email to Mr A and Miss A with a document attached saying Miss A had three years 
NCD. It said it hadnt sent a document saying  Miss A had five years  NCD. On that basis  our 
investigator didnt  think  Tradewise had done  anything wrong. So he didnt recommend Mr A 
and Miss As complaint be upheld.
Mr A and Miss A didnt agree as they said theyd  always  said Miss A had four to five years  
NCD when buying  the policy. They asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
I understand Mr A and Miss A have also raised concerns about the actions of the broker who 
sold them  policy  and also about  the broker who issued the NCD. But in this decision I can 
only consider what  Tradewise might, or might  not, have done wrong.
Under the Insurance Act 2015  Mr A had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk when 
buying the policy. And for Tradewise to take any action at all, it needs to show Mr A didnt do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying breach. The terms and conditions of 
Ref: DRN70772062the policy also say Tradewise can avoid the policy if Mr A and Miss A dont make  a fair 
presentation of the risk. 
As Im not considering  the actions of the broker Ive looked at the statement of fact to see 
what information Tradewise wanted to know and the information  it recorded from the broker. 
The statement  of fact shows Mr A and Miss A as the insured on the policy.  So I think it was 
reasonable that Tradewise asked for proof  of her NCD. The statement of fact shows Miss A 
as having five years NCD so I think its most  likely thats the information Tradewise received 
from the broker. It also says Mr A and Miss A hadnt had any accidents  or claims in the last 
three years. 
Ive looked at Miss As NCD to consider both the number of year NCD entitlement  and the 
claims shown  on there.  I can see there  are claims from December 2014 and August 2015. 
Both of these were  within the previous three  years  of Mr A and Miss A buying the policy  so I 
think Tradewise wanted to know about them. I havent looked at whether it was reasonable 
for Mr A and Miss A not to have declared these though because I dont think that matters to 
the outcome of my decision.  Thats  because  I think it was enough for Tradewise to have 
avoided the policy on the basis of the incorrect NCD. Ill explain my reasons for this below.  
I can see Tradewise contacted the previous insurer to confirm  Miss As NCD. And Ive seen 
the reply from the previous insurer that said the document had been fraudulently amended.  
Im not considering  the actions of that insurer in this decision, only Tradewises actions. And 
as the previous insurer confirmed to both Tradewise and our investigator that it didnt send 
the NCD document showing  five years I think it was reasonable for Tradewise to rely on that 
information to say Mr A and Miss A hadnt made a fair presentation of the risk. 
Tradewise said Mr A and Miss A benefitted from a lower  premium by not providing the 
correct information.  So Im satisfied theres  been a qualifying  breach. Tradewise said Mr A 
and Miss A knowingly provided false information. And as the previous insurer confirmed it 
didnt send an NCD with five years I think Tradewises view is reasonable. That means under 
the Insurance Act and the terms of the policy Tradewise  is entitled  to avoid Mr A and        
Miss As policy and keep  the premium.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A and Miss A hoped for but Im satisfied Tradewise 
made a fair and reasonable decision that was in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. It follows that Im not going  to ask it to refund the premium  or compensate Mr A for 
any additional policy hes had to buy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7077206