K820x#14complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the way her car insurance provider - U K Insurance Limited (UKI) - 
handled her claim. 
background
Mrs E was involved  in a collision  with a third partys (TP) car and a second parked car. 
Following the collision Mrs E made  a claim on her car insurance policy with UKI. The TP also 
claimed against Mrs Es policy.
Mrs E gave an initial account of the accident  to UKI over the phone before completing  a 
written accident report form (ARF) at a later date.  The TP also gave their account of the 
accident to UKI.
UKI initially disputed  Mrs Es liability for the claim to the TP. However, after several  months, 
UKI accepted fault on Mrs Es behalf on a without prejudice basis.  UKI paid the full amount 
of the claim to the TP.
Mrs E was unhappy that UKI had accepted liability and hadnt told her that they had done  so. 
Mrs E also felt she had been  given  conflicting  information by UKI about  her liability during  
her claim and said it hadnt contacted a witness that she had identified.
In response, UKI agreed that it failed to update  Mrs E of the outcome of the claim and that it 
could have made more  attempts  to contact the witness Mrs E had identified. UKI offered 
Mrs E £150  compensation in recognition of the poor service it had given. However, UKI said 
that under  the terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy, it was able to settle the claim on her 
behalf.
Mrs E didnt agree and so brought her complaint to us. Our investigator felt that UKI had 
conducted a reasonable  investigation overall.  They agreed that UKI should  have  tried harder 
to contact the witness and update Mrs E, but felt that UKIs offer of compensation was fair 
and reasonable.  Mrs E remained  unhappy  as she didnt feel the level of compensation was 
fair and reasonable and so the case has been  passed onto me for a decision.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this accident and its consequences have had a significant impact  on 
Mrs E. Its not for me to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. Instead,  my 
role in complaints  of this nature is to consider if the insurer  acted fairly and reasonably when 
making the decision on liability and how to settle the claim. 
UKI is entitled under the terms  and conditions of Mrs Es policy  to take over, defend or settle  
a claim as it sees fit. This is a common  term in car insurance policies. But it doesnt  alter the 
fact that UKI has to act reasonably when it is exercising this right.
Mrs E initially gave  UKI an account of the circumstances of the accident  shortly after it 
happened; this is called  the first notification of loss (FNOL). In the FNOL  Mrs E said that she 
pulled out from the side of the road,  believing that the TPs car was far enough away for her 
Ref: DRN70960122to do this safely. But, when she pulled out, the TPs car collided with Mrs E, causing her to 
then hit another parked  vehicle. UKIs  contact  notes show that Mrs E also repeated this 
account the following day.
But a few days later during a call, Mrs E gave  UKI a different account  of the accident. 
Mrs E said that she had already been established  on the road when  the TP tried to overtake. 
The TP skimmed  the side of her car causing her to collide with the parked vehicle. 
Mrs E also gave this account in her written accident report form (ARF).  
Because of Mrs Es second account UKI disputed  liability for the claim with the TP. It made 
enquiries into the availability of CCTV and asked  for information from the TPs insurer. But it 
took several months to investigate the claim.  Its not uncommon for cases  of this nature, 
when liability  is disputed, to take longer  than cases with no disputes. From the case note I 
can see that there were  some delays but, not all these  were down to UKI, as it was waiting 
on information from other parties. However, once UKI had all of the information it required it 
still took a further  month before the case was fully reviewed and this was only after Mrs E 
called them to chase  things up. So, I think UKI could have avoided  some of the delays in 
settling the case.
Mrs E was unhappy that she was told that the claim may be settled on a split liability basis, 
but UKI later held her fully liable. However,  I think it was reasonable for UKI to say the 
outcome could be a split liability, as it said this whilst it disputed  liability based on Mrs Es 
second account.
On reviewing the evidence UKI made  the decision that it wouldnt be able to successfully  
argue that Mrs E wasnt  at fault. It said this due to the inconsistencies in Mrs Es accounts of 
the accident. Mrs E said that the inconsistencies  in her accounts  were due to shock  and her 
hidden disabilities. But it wouldnt have been reasonable for UKI to entirely discount Mrs Es 
initial account. I say this because Mrs E initial  account  was similar to what the TP reported.  
And it was made near to the time of the accident when the incident would have been fresh in 
Mrs Es mind.  
So, I think that UKI acted  reasonably in assessing the claim, as it conducted a reasonable 
investigation before coming to its decision.  
UKI have  acknowledged that it could have tried harder to contact the witness  whose details 
Mrs E provided. Mrs E says in the ARF that the witness saw her cars position after the 
accident. Whilst I agree that UKI should  have tried harder  to contact the witness, I think  its 
unlikely that the witness could have  commented on liability if she wasnt present at the time 
of the collision. So, I dont think its likely to have led UKI to reach a different  outcome. 
UKI have  also acknowledged that it didnt keep Mrs E updated and inform her of its decision 
to accept liability. When UKI did write to Mrs E it said Mrs E had pulled out of a side road.  
Mrs Es unhappy, as this wasnt the case.  But Im satisfied  from the case  notes that this was 
a typing mistake, and UKIs decision was based  on Mrs E having pulled out from the side of 
the road and not from a side road.
UKI have  offered Mrs E £150 compensation in recognition of failing  to update  her and not 
trying hard enough to contact the witness. I think this fairly reflects  the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs E by the errors that UKI made. Therefore, I think this is a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint and I wont  ask UKI to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN70960123my final decision
I am aware  that U K Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay compensation of £150.  
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that U K Insurance  Limited should  pay Mrs E £150 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7096012