K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs M took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store  card whilst in a shop in 
2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
Mrs M says that she was given the application form to fill in and was told that PPI would be 
beneficial in case of sickness, which was why she took it. So Mrs M seems to have been  
aware that she didnt  have to have the policy. Ive seen  a copy of the application form. There 
is a separate section  for PPI and Mrs M has signed  in that section. She could have left it 
blank if she didnt want it. So Im satisfied that FICL gave Mrs M a choice about buying the 
policy.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs M to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to be able to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs M says she took it out because  she was told it would be of benefit  if she was off work 
sick, and she decided  to take it for that reason. So she clearly had an interest  in protecting 
her repayments.
Mrs M would  have  received sick pay from her job, but the policy would have  paid out in 
addition to that, and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. And 
Mrs M didnt  have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Mrs M has said that her 
partner would have  helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as their 
circumstances can change. So I think Mrs M had a need for the policy  and could have 
benefitted from it.
Mrs M says that FICL didnt tell her that she could get a quote from an alternative  supplier. 
But FICL was only required to give her information about the insurance that it was selling, so 
that she could  make a choice about buying  that or not. It did not have to tell her about any 
other policies available on the market.  And actually  I think Mrs M would have had trouble 
Ref: DRN71950582getting a quote for a policy that exactly replicated  the PPI that FICL was selling (cover for her 
store card repayments).
Its possible that FICL didnt provide as much  information about the policy  as it could have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs M wasnt affected  by any of those 
things. Because  Ive concluded that Mrs M had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. Therefore 
she is not any worse off as a result of anything FICL may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing FICL  needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7195058