K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Allianz Insurance Plc wont  pay a claim she made  under her pet 
insurance policy. While Miss Gs mother has represented  her in bringing this complaint, Ill 
refer to Miss G throughout.
background
Miss G has a dog, which Ill call F. When she got F she took him to the vet, and it was 
recorded that he had some  pain in his front right paw.  The vet said this was due to a 
deformed toenail, and recommended she keep it trimmed short  so it didnt  cause any 
damage. A few months after that, Miss G took out pet insurance underwritten  by Allianz.
About 18 months  later, Miss G took F to the vet again. He was having more problems with
the same  paw and had been showing lameness  in his right front leg for a few weeks. The vet 
said this wasnt to do with his nail but problems  with the bones  in Fs toes.  On the vets 
advice, Miss G agreed to have the toe amputated.
Miss G then claimed under her policy to cover the cost of the amputation and associated 
treatment to Fs paw. Allianz  said it didnt  think her claim was covered, because it related to
a condition F had before Miss G took out her policy. It said such pre-existing conditions were 
excluded from cover.
Miss G complained, and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  She 
considered evidence from the vet whod treated F. The vet thought  the bone issue which  
required amputation  was separate from the nail issue that had been identified  when  Miss G 
first brought F to the vet. The investigator  thought this was supported  by the notes the vet 
had recorded  when shed examined F from time to time. She concluded Miss Gs claim was 
related to a new, different condition to the one that predated her insurance  policy. So she 
said Allianz should pay the claim.
Allianz didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. It said the symptoms 
and clinical  signs the vet described  when  she first saw F were the same as those which were 
identified recently  and meant his toe had to be amputated. So it still felt the pre-existing 
condition exclusion applied.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said I thought it was fair for Allianz  to have  declined  
Miss Gs claim. I said:
This complaints about an insurance claim, so the starting point is to look at what  the 
policy says. Miss Gs policy  says Allianz  wont pay for the cost of treating a pre-existing 
condition. It defines  this as:
 Any injury or illness  that happened  or first showed  clinical  signs  before your pets 
cover started.
 Any injury or illness  that has the same  diagnosis or clinical signs  as an injury,  illness  
or clinical sign your pet had before  its cover  started.
 Any injury or illness  that is caused  by, relates  to, or results from, an injury, illness or 
clinical sign your pet had before its cover started.
The policy says a clinical sign is a change in the pets normal  healthy state, its bodily 
functions or behaviour.
Ref: DRN70793802So for Allianz to have  fairly declined Miss Gs claim,  the condition which required Fs 
toe to be amputated needed to have  begun,  or been  apparent, before Miss G took out 
the policy. And crucially,  I think Miss G needed  to have  been aware something was 
wrong, as I dont think it would be fair for Allianz to decline  the claim if Miss G couldnt 
reasonably have known anything was wrong with F when she took out her insurance.
Here, theres some dispute about whether F had one issue with his paw or two 
separate issues. Miss Gs vet wrote a letter after she claimed saying My conclusion is 
that the 2 conditions are not related. [] The original condition affected his nail. The 
latter condition affected his bones.
But even if there  were two separate conditions  causing F trouble with his paw, on 
balance I think they were both present  or at the very least the clinical signs  F was 
showing were the same   before Miss G took out her policy, as well as when she 
agreed to have Fs toe amputated.
The vets notes from before Miss Gs policy started say F had a Deformed digit/nail 
which was causing  pain across the P3 bone in his paw and was affecting  his exercise. 
It had resulted in his Pad [being] very spread. The vet at this point advised 
amputation of this digit as will be ongoing  problem.
When Miss G returned F to the vet 18 months or so later, he was now also showing 
signs of lameness and the vet noted the pad has widened  and distinctly 
uncomfortable on palpitation of the bone  structures in the toe. While the vet concluded 
this was the result of problems with the bone  itself or soft tissue (rather than the nail) 
she said It is possible  that there  is more  than one cause for [Fs] lameness.
So before Miss G took out her policy,  F had a painful digit in his paw which  caused  his 
pad to spread,  and her vet said this might  require amputation. Ultimately, this is the 
same presentation (with the addition of lameness) which  required the amputation and 
treatment Miss G is now claiming for.
Even if the cause was bone or soft tissue-related rather  than to do with the nail, a 
condition doesnt  need to be diagnosed before the policy  started for an insurer  to be 
able to reasonably  decline  a claim.
Miss Gs policy said claims wouldnt be covered if they were  for an illness or injury 
which had the same clinical signs as something F had before the policy  started. And 
as Ive explained, whether the eventual amputation related  to the nail or issues with 
the bones in Fs paw, the clinical signs - of pain in the digit and a spread  pad - were  
the same  as those identified earlier.  In particular, Miss G was aware  before she took 
out the policy that there was a problem with Fs toe and that it might need to be 
amputated.
Taking all this into account, I think Allianz has applied the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions fairly and so I dont think  it acted unreasonably in declining Miss Gs claim.
Allianz didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Miss G said she didnt have anything  to 
add.
Ref: DRN70793803my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has added anything in response  to my provisional findings, I see no reason  
to depart from them. I therefore make those same findings here, and make them  final.
I find that Allianz fairly applied the pre-existing condition exclusion in Miss Gs pet insurance 
policy, and that it acted fairly and reasonably in declining  her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7079380