K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited agreed  to insure her daughters
mobile phone under her insurance policy, but when she tried to make a claim for the device
it was rejected.
background
Mrs H registered her daughters phone  on her policy in 2016. In 2018 she attempted to make
a claim but was told by Assurant that the phone was not covered due her daughters age
and because the phone was not owned by Mrs H. Mrs H says she was told that her
daughters phone would be covered by Assurant when she called to register the phone on
her policy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint and felt that Mrs H should be awarded  £150 in
compensation as he felt Assurant shouldve asked more questions about the phone  when
Mrs H called to register it - and as they failed to do this, Mrs H was led to believe that her
daughters phone would be covered. Assurant disagreed with the outcome, so the complaint
was passed to me for a decision.
I completed my provisional  decision on 7 January  2020, which  is attached and forms part of 
this decision, outlining why I dont think this complaint should  be upheld. Assurant havent  
responded to my provisional decision,  but Mrs H has. Ive addressed her points below. 
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I still dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld,  and Ill explain why. 
Mrs H responded to my decision and Ive summarised her main points below: 
Mrs H maintains that her daughter spoke to someone on the phone and her age at that 
time was discussed; 
since then it has been made  clear  to Mrs H that her daughter was insured under this 
policy; and
the policy conditions  were changed after Mrs Hs daughter was put on the policy.  
I understand that Mrs H feels strongly  that a call took place  where it was agreed  her 
daughters phone was registered  under this policy and would  be covered. However, I have to 
look at the evidence available to come  to a fair and reasonable decision. I dont doubt what 
Mrs H has told us are her honest recollections of the time, however,  I havent seen any 
evidence to support  this. Ive been given  several  call recordings, but none of these evidence  
that Mrs H was told her daughter would be covered even  though  the terms and conditions of 
the policy stated  otherwise.  So, without  anything to support  what  Mrs H says, its difficult to 
uphold the complaint on this point.  
It is true that the policy terms and conditions were  changed after Mrs H first called to register 
this phone. However, as Ive explained  in my provisional decision, these terms and 
conditions both before  and after the call wouldnt have  covered Mrs Hs daughter.
Ref: DRN71538452So, although  I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs H, Im still not able to uphold this 
complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and those in my provisional decision,  I am unable to uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited agreed to insure her daughters mobile 
phone under  her insurance policy, but when she tried to make a claim  for the device  it was rejected.
background
Mrs H registered her daughters phone on her policy in 2016. In 2018 she attempted  to make a claim  
but was told by Assurant that the phone  was not covered due her daughters age and because  the 
Ref: DRN71538453phone was not owned by Mrs H. Mrs H says she was told that her daughters phone would be 
covered by Assurant when  she called  to register the phone on her policy.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint and felt that Mrs H should be awarded  £150 in compensation  as 
he felt Assurant shouldve asked more questions about the phone  when Mrs H called to register it and 
as they failed  to do this, Mrs H was led to believe that her daughters phone  would be covered. 
Assurant disagreed with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Ive listened to the call recordings available  from December 2016,  when Mrs H called to register her 
daughters phone on the policy.  At this time Mrs H provided all the details of the phone and mentioned 
to the Assurant representative that this was her daughters phone.
Mrs H did not inform Assurant of her daughters age during these  calls or that her daughter didnt  live 
with her. Assurant  didnt  ask any questions  about  Mrs Hs daughter either  or clarify  who the phone  
belonged to.
 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions relevant  to December  2016, when Mrs H added  her 
daughters phone to the policy. This shows that at the time the policy covered the account holder and 
dependent children under  18. The policy  terms later changed, and the new terms came into effect in 
February 2018 stating that the policy now covered the account  holder,  partner/spouse and 
dependent children living at the same  address. Mrs H has told us that her daughter was 25 at the 
time she registered the phone with Assurant, and she wasnt living  at the same address as her. So, I 
think its clear that the policy wouldnt have covered Mrs Hs daughter at any time the phone  was 
registered with them.
However, Mrs H says that her daughter spoke to a representative in 2016 and during this call she was 
assured that her phone would be covered  under her mums policy. However, Ive not been  provided 
with call recording  of this conversation or any other proof that this call took place. So, without any 
evidence its difficult for me to rely on this information. 
I have listened to a recent call between Mrs H and Assurant where Mrs H was told that the policy 
terms outlined above were not being enforced in 2016, so it may have allowed  Mrs H to claim for her 
daughters phone at that time. Assurant also said that once the terms changed  in 2018 these terms 
were enforced. But, even  if this term wasnt being  enforced in 2016 and Assurant told Mrs H or her 
daughter that at the time, I think Mrs H wouldve been aware the policy  wouldnt cover  her daughter 
when she received  notice of the new policy terms and conditions. And, from what Ive seen I cant  say 
that Assurant gave Mrs H the impression that her daughter was, and would always be, covered under  
her policy regardless of the terms  and conditions.
Our adjudicator awarded  compensation on the basis that he felt Assurant couldve  done more  to 
make Mrs H aware that he daughter wasnt covered  by the terms and conditions of the policy  when 
she called to register  it. I agree  that its possible it couldve done more at this stage; however, I dont 
think Mrs H has lost out financially as it didnt cost her anything  extra to add her daughter phone to 
the policy.  Although I can understand that this might  be upsetting for Mrs H, unfortunately I do not 
think that any compensation  is due in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 21 January  2020.
Ref: DRN71538454Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7153845