K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about how Acromas Insurance  Company Limited handled his claim on his 
motor insurance policy  after his car was stolen. He wants the valuation  it made  reviewed and 
compensation for delays.
background
Mr As car was stolen  and recovered  damaged. It was later assessed as being  beyond 
economical repair. Mr A said Acromas caused  delays  in settling his claim. Hes also unhappy 
with the settlement offer. Acromas said it couldnt source a new for old replacement  which  
was his policy entitlement. So it offered Mr A the cars purchase price.  But Mr A said the car 
had increased  in value since he bought it, so he didnt think this was fair. 
Acromas agreed that it had caused  delays in handling  the claim and it calculated  these as 
four weeks.  It also said Mr A had to chase it for updates. So it offered him £500 for his 
inconvenience. But Mr A was unhappy with this. He said it took 10 months  to settle  the 
claim. He said Acromas hadnt  been proactive in pursuing the police report of the theft. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He calculated 
that Acromas had caused 47 days delay in settling the claim. And he thought  its offer of 
£500 compensation for this was fair and reasonable. 
The investigator calculated that Mr As car would now cost £459.98  more  than the settlement  
Acromas paid under the new for old provision. He thought Acromas  should pay Mr A this 
amount, with interest. He also thought Acromas should pay Mr A for loss of use of his car 
during the 47 days of delays. He thought this should  be at the reduced  amount of £5 a day 
as Mr A had other means of transport  but he was still caused  inconvenience.
Mr A replied  that he accepted the investigators  view. But Acromas  replied that it disagreed 
with the investigators  recommendations.  It thought its settlement was fair and reasonable. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas agreed that there had been delays of four or five weeks in the claim. It said these 
were due to its internal  processes and difficulties in obtaining the police report. I think  it was 
reasonable for Acromas to validate the claim, and this can take some time. But, looking at 
the avoidable delays in the claim, I think the investigators calculation  of 47 days is correct. 
Acromas couldnt explain  why it took three weeks for the claim to be reviewed by the internal 
fraud team. There was two weeks delay in its external  investigators  report being returned  to 
Acromas when I think it could have been prompted sooner. There was a further two weeks 
delay in raising payment for the final police report. Mr A said hed obtained and sent in the 
report himself  earlier  and he provided proof of postage, but I cant see this in Acromas  
records. A proactive  approach in obtaining  the repairs estimate whilst  the claim was being 
validated could have  saved 19 days.  
Ref: DRN70423792But I agree  with the investigator that Acromas offer of £500 is fair and reasonable for the 
trouble and upset  caused by these delays. Acromas also considered this amount to be fair 
compensation for its poor communication  with Mr A. I agree  as this is in keeping with what  
Id award in similar circumstances. But Acromas didnt consider Mr As loss of use as it said 
its investigator saw other vehicles at his home. 
But I dont think this is fair. Mr A has explained  how he had to rely on family members to 
transport him for around 10 months.  Mr As policy doesnt provide for a hire car in the case  of 
total loss. But Acromas caused avoidable delays causing Mr A to be without his car for 
longer than necessary. 
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Acromas to compensate Mr A for his loss of use 
of his car during the period of 47 days when it caused delays in the claim.  I agree with the 
investigator that this should be reduced  to £5 a day from our usual £10 because  Mr A did 
have access to alternative transport.  
After Mr As car was declared beyond economical  repair he was entitled to like for like 
replacement under the terms and conditions of his policy. This should have been a car of the 
same make, model and specification. 
But Acromas  said it couldnt  find an identical car to Mr As. So it offered him one with a 
higher specification and asked him to pay the difference in prices. Mr A declined to do this 
and he said he reluctantly accepted its offer of the purchase price of his car some  eight  
months earlier. 
But I dont think this was fair. Mr A pointed out that a car identical to his can be built from the 
manufacturers website. Our investigator  did this and considered Mr As original invoice  for 
further elements.  He calculated that a car identical to Mr As would have cost £459.98 more 
than Acromas paid to settle Mr As total loss claim.  
I think Mr A was entitled to a like for like car by the policy terms and conditions. So I think its 
far and reasonable that Acromas pay Mr A this amount. Acromas has already paid Mr A 
interest for the nine months it took to settle his claim. I think its fair that it also pays interest 
on this further amount  as it should  have  been  included in the settlement.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Pay Mr A £459.98 more for the loss of his car, adding  interest  at 8% simple from the 
date of the claim to the date it was settled.  
2.Pay Mr A £235 for the loss of use of his car caused by avoidable delays  in the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7042379