K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with FCE 
Bank Plc (trading as Ford Credit) was not of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr G entered into a HPA with Ford Credit in June  2017 to acquire a new car. He says that 
he experienced an intermittent fault with the car going into safe mode without warning. He 
says this happened four times  in the first year and twice in the first six months. Mr G says he 
does not feel safe driving himself and his family  in the car. He has explained  that he does  a 
lot of motorway driving and the car going into safe mode and reducing from around 60 miles 
per hour to 20 miles per hour without warning  puts him at risk of causing an accident.
Mr G has explained that his family situation  means the car is essential and he needs to have 
a reliable vehicle  that he feel safe transporting his family in.
Ford Credit says that checks  have  been  carried out on Mr Gs car and the fault has not been 
able to be replicated. It says that on one occasion  a fault code was identified  and the glow 
plugs were replaced and the fault code  has not occurred since.  An inspection was carried  
out on the car in August 2018 but the fault was not identified.  Ford Credit says because of 
the time taken for the inspection to take place it refunded one monthly  instalment.
It says that at the time Mr G raised  his complaint the dealer had sourced another vehicle for 
him with the intention  of Mr G entering into a new agreement however Mr G declined  this. It 
says Mr G was given  a courtesy  vehicle  but this was only for a short  period as it did not meet 
his needs. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that although Ford Credit  had not been  able 
to replicate the fault Mr G had raised, he had provided evidence of the issue and taken the 
car to the garage on each occasion. Based on this she thought  there was an inherent felt 
and so the car was not of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply.  
Our investigator noted the mileage Mr G had covered but also that he had needed to pay for 
alternative transport. She recommended  that Mr G be allowed to end his agreement with 
nothing further  to pay. Because  of the need to use alternative transport, our investigator  
recommended that Mr G be paid £650  a month from 23 July 2018 to reflect the cost of a hire 
car and be paid £250 for the inconvenience he was caused.
Ford Credit did not accept  our investigators  view. It said that the video evidence was 
provided after the car had been driven  over 15,000 miles which was more  than six months  
after acquisition. It reiterated that the car had been tested on a number of occasions 
including an extended test drive and the fault had not been  replicated. It also asked for 
further evidence  to support the request for compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN76364342Mr G acquired  a car through a HPA with Ford Credit. Under  the regulations, Ford Credit is 
liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new 
when acquired  it is reasonable that Mr G would expect it to be free from issues including  
minor defects.
Mr G says that the issue occurred four times within the first year and twice within the first six 
months. I have seen a video recording  of the issue where Mr G presses  the accelerator but 
the car will not go beyond 20 miles per hour.  
Given the issue first occurred within a few months  of acquisition and the car was new I think 
it reasonable to accept  that if there was a fault then it was present or developing at the point 
of supply. The outstanding issue in this case is whether there is fault with the car.
Ford Credit has explained that tests have been  carried  out on several occasions and an 
extended road test has taken place and the fault has not been replicated. Ford Credit also 
had an inspection carried out in August 2018. This noted an error code relating to the glow 
plugs which  the inspector  could not rule lout having a possible link to the engine going into 
limp mode. Ford Credit said this code  related tot eh previous issue  with the glow plugs which 
had been addressed.
However, Mr G has provided video evidence of the issue and given his circumstances I think 
it reasonable to accept  that he would only return the car (and have the inconvenience of not 
having a car) if the fault was occurring and causing  him concern. Mr G has explained the 
fault is intermittent and so while the dealer has not been able to replicate this doesnt  
necessarily mean that the fault is not present.
In this case, as the evidence is contradictory, I have considered the most  likely situation 
based on the information provided. Ford Credit  has said that in other similar  cases where a 
fault has not been able to be replicated  the complaint has not been  upheld. I accept this but 
each case is considered on its own merits and in this case  I have considered the 
inconvenience that Mr G has been  caused  by not having the car and the numbers of time he 
has returned it. Given this and the other evidence in this case  I find, on balance, that it is 
more likely than not that there is an ongoing issue with the car that was present or 
developing at the point of supply. 
Mr G has explained the mileage he does and that he spends a lot of time on motorways and 
so a sudden drop in speed is of particular concern. Given  this I think the only fair resolution 
to this case is for Mr G to be allowed to reject  the car and have his HPA ended with nothing 
further to pay. I have  looked at the HPA and Mr G did not pay a deposit and so no refund is 
required in regard to this.
Mr G had use of the car up to 23 July 2018.  However since this time the car has been with 
the dealer. Given  this I think it is reasonable that Mr G is refunded  any payments he has 
made since this date (taking into account any refunds he has already received).
I understand that Mr G has made use of other transport while  he has been without a car and 
that this has resulted in him incurring  costs. Receipts have not been provided  at this stage 
but Mr G has given  a breakdown of his costs. These are significant and while it is often  
reasonable to only have  the payments refunded for a period of non use, each case is 
considered on its own merits.  Mr Gs case  is unique  and he has family priorities  which  mean 
transport is essential  and he needs to make regular long journeys due to the health  needs of 
Ref: DRN76364343his child. This situation also means  that the options  available to him when considering 
alterative transport are limited. Because of this I think it is reasonable that further refunds are 
provided above the normal monthly  payments.
Our investigator noted that Mr G used taxis and could have sought an alternative, such  as a 
hire car, which would have reduced his costs. I understand this point but also accept that 
Mr Gs priority is getting his child to the necessary appointments alongside dealing with his 
usual transport needs and given the situation with his car I do not think  he acted 
unreasonably by using taxis. That said I have  not seen copies of receipts  only a list of 
expenses and without  receipts I cannot say exactly when the costs were incurred and so I do 
not think I can require  refunds  of these to take place. In the event receipts are provided 
these should be considered. However if receipts  are not available  then I agree with our 
investigators suggestion that the cost of a suitable hire car (estimated at around £650 per 
month) less the monthly payment refund (just under £300 per month)  giving a net amount of 
£350 per month should be included in the settlement.
Mr G has been caused stress and inconvenience due to the issues  with his car and the 
extended time he has been  without it. Although I understand  he was offered an alternate 
vehicle by the dealer which he declined I understand the deal did not suit him. Overall I think 
it is reasonable that compensation  is paid in this case and I agree with our investigators  
recommendation of £250.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FCE Bank Plc should:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
refund  any payments  made (and not refunded)  from 23 July to reflect the loss of use;
pay an additional amount to reflect the additional  costs  Mr G has incurred. If taxi receipts 
are provided these can be considered alternatively  an amount of £350  per month from 
23 July 2018 to reflect the additional  costs Mr G would have incurred had a suitable hire 
car been used;
pay £250 for the inconvenience thats been caused by not having  use of the car; and
remove any adverse information  from the customers  credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019..
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7636434