K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that when his ISA matured,  the Family  Equity Plan Limited didnt  follow his 
instructions to transfer his savings to another ISA product.
background
Mr C held an online fixed rate cash ISA with Family Equity Plan Limited, who Ill call FEP. It 
sent him a secure message on 24 December 2017  to explain that all funds  and interest 
earned would be transferred  to Mr Cs holding account once the ISA matured on 
5 January 2018. It advised that if he didnt want his money to remain in his holding  account 
he could either move  it into a new product or transfer it to a different provider.
On 5 January  2018, FEP sent Mr C another secure message. It told him his ISA had closed 
and his money had been  automatically  moved to his holding account where it was now 
earning much less interest.
On 8 January  2018, Mr C instructed FEP to transfer his ISA into a new fixed  rate product 
and he sent it a secure message explaining  that he had found it difficult to make  the transfer 
himself. FEP sent him a secure message acknowledging his instructions to open a new ISA 
product. This message  also told him it would request the transfer of his money  and update 
him once  received. But, on 9 January 2018, FEP sent him another secure message 
explaining that it hadnt been able to move  his money and that he needed to move his 
savings via a money movement from his holding account instead.
FEP also says it sent Mr C an automated email telling him each time it sent him a secure 
message. But Mr C says he didnt see these emails at the time. So, on 30 May 2018, he 
contacted FEP after noticing that his money  was still in his holding account. He complained  
that he hadnt been notified that his transfer hadnt been successful and said he wanted FEP 
to pay him the interest he wouldve received had his savings been  moved  into a new fixed  
rate product.  But FEP said it couldnt agree to this because it hadnt  made  a mistake.  It also 
said it had acted in accordance with its procedures by promptly alerting Mr C that it hadnt  
been able to action his request.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, where our adjudicator empathised with him but didnt think 
FEP had done anything  wrong or needed  to do anything more here. But Mr C disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   While I sympathise with Mr C, having 
considered everything  he and FEP have said, I agree with our adjudicator  for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand Mr C will be disappointed to so Ill explain why I dont uphold 
this complaint.
While FEP should follow  its customers requests, theres good  reason here why it couldnt. 
Mr C gave online instructions to transfer  his savings to a new ISA product. But, while this 
product was a new fixed rate product, it was offered by the same provider. So it wasnt  
considered to be a separate  or external ISA account by FEP.  As such, it wasnt  possible for 
Mr C to transfer funds between both ISAs  using the option he chose. This is because the 
transfer in function Mr C selected could only be used to transfer savings when transferring 
Ref: DRN78480772ISAs from a different  provider into a FEP online  ISA. It cant be used to transfer funds from 
within the same online  ISA provider as was the case here. So, this explains  why Mr C wasnt  
able to move  his savings  into his new ISA in this way and why his savings remained in his 
holding account  instead. 
FEP said, in order to move the savings in the way in which  Mr C wanted, he needed  to use 
the move money  function and follow the instructions on screen.  Mr C said because  he 
wasnt sure about how to move his savings to the new product, he searched FEPs website 
for the answer. He believes that the website information on this issue is potentially 
misleading to customers  because it isnt clear  as to how customers should transfer ISA 
savings. I realise Mr C would like FEP to change  the terms it uses for the services  it 
provides. But how FEP explains  its products and services is a matter for it to decide as a 
business. What  Ive thought about here is whether the way FEP explained the service  was 
fair in the individual circumstances  of this complaint.
Ive seen the secure message Mr C sent FEP,  after making the transfer request, in which he 
explains the difficulties  he experienced during  the transfer process.   I think, having had those 
difficulties, it wouldve been reasonable for him to check whether  his savings had transferred 
into the new product  as hed wanted.  While he received an automated  secure message 
acknowledging his instruction to open  a new ISA product. This message didnt confirm the 
account had been opened. Instead  it clearly said the funds would be requested and, once 
received, hed be updated further. So, I think it was reasonable  for him to expect further 
communication from FEP in the circumstances or to contact it if he had concerns as to the 
status of his new ISA account. I also think it wouldve been reasonable for him to check the 
status of his account online, which wouldve alerted him to the secure messages that FEP 
sent him. 
Mr C believes  that FEP knew what he was trying to do and couldve transferred his savings 
on his behalf.  He thinks it shouldve done  this. But the account  Mr C had with FEP is a self-
managed product. So, its designed to be operated online by a customer  and this means a 
customer needs to open an account themselves. 
The primary method of communication with this account is by secure  message  and Ive 
considered whether FEP gave  Mr C sufficient and timely information  that it couldnt  do what  
he wanted. I think it did because the day after his transfer instruction, FEP advised  him it 
couldnt fulfil his request. So, Im satisfied that it responded promptly and that it gave clear 
guidance on how to move his savings to a new account. Ive seen evidence of the secure 
messages it sent Mr C and I think it gave  him good advice in the circumstances. Mr C 
doesnt disagree that secure messages and email  notifications  were sent to him. He didnt 
see the secure messages until much later and says he didnt receive any email notifications  
because theyd gone into his spam mail. Its unfortunate Mr C didnt  see these messages but 
thats not something that its fair to hold FEP responsible for. Had he seen them,  he wouldve 
been alerted to the fact that FEP couldnt transfer  his savings into his new account.  Had he 
seen those messages,  I believe he would most likely have acted  on them  and that it 
wouldve avoided his savings  remaining  in his holding account for so long.
Mr C thinks FEP deliberately kept his money  in his holding account and that its deliberately  
treating external and internal transfers of ISA savings differently  to avoid paying more 
interest. But theres no evidence FEP is doing  this and its entitled to treat external and 
internal ISA transfers differently.
Ref: DRN78480773I appreciate the frustration  caused  when Mr C became aware his savings hadnt been  
moved as hed wanted. And I recognise hes suffered the loss of interest he wouldve 
received had a new product been opened. But, as our adjudicator explained, at this service  
we look to see if a business has made an error.  If they have well try to put a consumer back 
in the position they wouldve been  had that error  not occurred. Here, Ive explained  why I 
dont think FEP made an error or acted unfairly and I dont consider it could  have done  
anymore. This problem wasnt caused by something  FEP did wrong so it wouldnt be fair to 
hold it responsible for what happened.
So, for the reasons, set out above Im satisfied FEP acted fairly and reasonable and Im not 
going to be asking it to ask it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7848077