K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the advice he was given by a representative of Openwork Limited in 
2013 to purchase  a with-profit  annuity using the funds  from his drawdown plan. He says that 
he was not given accurate information, particularly about the situation on death, at the time 
by the Openwork adviser. He feels that he would have been better off if he had remained in 
the drawdown plan.  Mr A believes  the charges for doing so were  excessive and he did not 
receive any service in respect  of the ongoing  charges. 
background
Openwork did not uphold  Mr As complaint. It said that the evidence was that Mr A required 
an income in 2013 and had approached  the adviser about this. The with-profit annuity 
provided that income. The drawdown  plan was no longer appropriate because  Mr As 
circumstances had changed significantly and it was felt that the drawdown presented too 
much risk in terms of income generation. Openwork said that Mr A had received professional  
advice in 2011 (for the drawdown) and 2013  and therefore the fees he was charged were  
warranted. It said it could  find no evidence of the importance of the 55% charge on death. It 
thought the limited guarantees  of the annuity had been made clear. 
In terms of Mr As non-pension investments, it said that Mr A had chosen to retain a 
significant amount  in his bank account and it was essentially his choice as to how much to 
commit to investments. 
In terms of the ongoing charges, Openwork said that that the ongoing charges were made 
clear and Mr A had chosen not to receive any ongoing advice. He had agreed  to the ongoing 
0.5% fee with respect to the drawdown. 
The complaint was referred  to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  The 
adjudicator did not uphold  the complaint. She thought  that the options were explained by the 
adviser and Mr A opted for an annuity  based approach  based  on his objectives and attitude 
to risk. 
Mr A did not agree  with the adjudicators  assessment. In summary his representative said:
The same  adviser  arranged the Aegon drawdown plan and the with-profit annuity.  He 
charged 0.5% a year on the Aegon plan but did not review  it and then charged  the 
another amount to switch  from the drawdown to the annuity.
The adviser told Mr A he would lose 55% of his drawdown fund on death  which 
was the main reason he opted  for the annuity.  
How did Mr A not know  about this issue at the original sale of the drawdown,  and 
why were the death benefits confirmed in the suitability letter?
At the time of purchasing his annuity  Mr A was told he could not contribute to his 
pension, he had sufficient  income  and over £100,000 in the bank.
The annuity produces a variable level of income and is based on the returns from a 
with-profit fund. It was set up on a maximum bonus  basis  which  is the highest risk 
level.
Ref: DRN79355792The level of charges was too high.
The main issue is that Mr A didnt need to take an income  or a pension as he had 
sufficient income  for his needs,  he was very concerned about death  benefits and was 
told if he stayed with drawdown he would lose 55%. The with profit annuity he was 
moved to is similar to that of a drawdown. 
It questions whether Mr A was provided with an explanation of all the, three  death 
benefit options.    
Its incorrect to compare  with profit annuities and standard  risk annuities  as they are 
not comparable  products.  
If Mr A has a low to medium  risk attitude why would he be so concerned about the 
loss of 55% of his fund that he moves  to an annuity?
Mr A has been disadvantaged  by the switch  to the annuity.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have considered in this decision  Mr As complaint about the advice to purchase  the with-
profit annuity  in 2013, I have not considered the suitability of the advice to enter  into 
drawdown in 2011.  I have  noted what advice was given in 2011 but only as background to 
this complaint.
In July 2013 Mr A says he was made  redundant  and had received a substantial payment. He 
had then found a part time job. He had the pension drawdown plan but was not taking an 
income. He says that he didnt have an immediate need for income but would have within  
the next five years. He says he was concerned with what would  happen with the drawdown  
should he die  he was worried about  security  for his wife. He says he was told that if he 
died he would lose 55% of his drawdown  fund and this was the main reason for his decision 
to take out the with profits annuity. He says he was told that the income from the annuity 
would be guaranteed.
At the time the advice  was given, the adviser  completed a fact find to record Mr As 
circumstances and objectives. This recorded  that Mr As total gross income was about 
£9,000 a year and his partners was about £16,000 a year. Mr A was employed as a driver. 
Jointly Mr and Mrs A held cash savings of about £113,000 and a £2,000 in shares. It is set 
out that Mr A intends to work until he is 70.  His pension was worth about £188,000.
I have noted that in 2011 Mr A was given advice to enter drawdown by the same adviser that 
recommended his annuity. At that point he was earning over £30,000 a year  so his income 
had fallen considerably upon  his redundancy.
The adviser made extensive notes in the fact find. It was recorded that:
In 2013, (Mr A) transferred all of his pensions  into an Aegon  Retirement Control  Account 
(Drawdown) so that he could take his tax-free cash and use it as a deposit so that he could 
Ref: DRN79355793then purchase his daughter  property in (location), which she could not sell at that time. 
This enabled (daughter) to purchase a property with her partner.
(Mr A) has since sold the (location) property, but made no profit after legal  costs.  (Mr A) has 
not been taking any income from the Aegon Retirement Control Account (Drawdown). (Mr A) 
has no further entitlement to an PCLS/Tax-Free Cash.
(Mrs A) thinks that she will retire in the near future, but may possibly continue working on a 
part-time basis.  She has had her State  Pension  Forecast and expects to receive £138.81 per 
week. Her State  Pension entitlement  date was 2013.
(Mr As) State  Pension age is ..2015,  which is his 65th birthday,  he has had his State 
Pension Forecast and expects to receive a similar amount to his wife, he is unsure of
the exact amount, but he is certain  that it is in the range  of £150 to £160  per week.
It was also set out that:
(Mr A) has seen  the Open Market  Option figures from the Money Advice  Service
website and knows that for his given fund he can obtain a traditional guaranteed
level annuity of £9,796.56pa from Canada  Life, which  would include a 50% widow's
pension and a 10 year guarantee.
(Mr A) has done a lot of research on his annuity  options and the effect of inflation  on
his income, he has also spoken to his bank, Lloyds TSB. (Mr A) requires an annuity
that as a minimum has the potential to offset some of the effects  of inflation on his
annuity income over time. The effect of inflation  on his future income is of concern
to (Mr A), he clearly  understands  that if he were  to accept a level annuity  it will pay
him exactly the same level of income  from the start until the day he dies. This
means that he would  be accepting  an annuity  which would have a decreasing
purchasing power  because of the effect  of inflation on his income over time, we
discussed this and he does not want a level annuity.  We discussed  the effects of an
index-linked annuity, indexed at (say) 3% or 3.5%,  but (Mr A) is not prepared to
accept this because  the income provided  would  start that much lower  than a level
annuity, and it would  take around 20 years before the index-linked  annuity  has paid
out more in total than a level annuity.  (Mr A) has discounted taking an income directly
from the fund as this is regarded  as a high risk option, and knows  that if he were to
take maximum income from his fund and then his fund were to fall by 40% (as in
2008) then the level of income  provided  by his fund would be unsustainable, and
his fund may never recover  to its former value. (Mr A) understands  that if he is to
achieve his objective of having some potential to offset the effects of inflation on his
annuity income then he needs to balance the potential  income  gains against the
investment risks involved. Short term annuity's were  discounted for the same
reasons as income withdrawal. (Mr A) wants to consider  the options of utilising a
Prudential Income Choice Annuity, whereby the level of income received can be
balanced on a risk and reward basis, and it could  offer the potential  to offset some
of the effects of inflation on his annuity  income  over time. (Mr and Mrs A) have
£100k in investments and feel that this could be utilised  to offset any adverse
fluctuations in income that may occur.
Attitude to Risk - (Mr As) ATR is low Balanced, almost into the Cautious sector - I pointed 
this out to (Mr A), and as well as reading the descriptions of a Balanced  and a Cautious  
investor from AAMOYM,  I told him that some  of his answers to the ATR questionnaire 
Ref: DRN79355794seemed to indicate a more cautious  ATR where  only more cautious  products such as (in this 
case) a conventional  guaranteed annuity  would be more appropriate, particularly as it has a 
guaranteed level of income that cannot fall. (Mr A) discounted  the conventional guaranteed  
annuity as it does not suit his needs,  it does not offer an income with the potential to offset  
the effects of inflation, and that a Prudential Income Choice Annuity was/is  more suited to his 
needs than a conventional guaranteed annuity.  He also feels that the description of him 
being a 'Low Balanced almost Cautious' investor  is appropriate to him.
(Mr A) wants  to provide for (Mrs A) via a 50% widow's pension  and a 10 year guarantee. 
Additionally, the 10 year guarantee will ensure a minimum  payout  were they both to
die in the early years.
The adviser then discussed the various annuity income levels  from various providers and 
said:
(Mr A) prefers the Prudential Income  Choice Annuity with it's limited  downside  and it's 
potential to provide  an income that could  potentially increase over time. The income from the 
Income Choice Annuity  should be set at a level that matches or beats that available in the 
Open Market (see AAAS tables) and requires a smoothed  return  in the region of 4% net of 
charges.
(Mr A) feels  that this level of smoothed return (& more) should be achievable and exceeded  
over the medium to long term and sees this as offering the potential for growth in his 
retirement income. In the event of a fall in the amount of the annuity income provided (Mr 
and Mrs A) feel that they have the capacity to cope  as they feel that they have adequate 
alternative funds to make up any income  shortfall. After  further  discussion,  and reviewing 
various illustrations,  it was felt that the Prudential Illustration  offering  an initial annuity of 
10,122.00pa, and which required an assumed bonus rate of 4.00% (net of charges) was 
the most  appropriate  for (Mr As) needs.  (Mr A) felt that this plan offered the right level of 
income at outset, he is prepared to accept some investment risk and at this level he feels it 
is an acceptable level of risk, together with the potential for the income provided to modestly 
increase over time and offset some of the effects  of inflation.
And:
(Mr A) pension  funds are currently  invested  in a drawdown account (Aegon
Retirement Control Account). They were moved here so that (Mr A) could help his
daughter - see notes.  (Mr A) has never  taken any form of income from his drawdown
fund. (Mr A) has discounted taking an income  directly from the fund as this is
regarded as a high risk option, and knows that if he were to take maximum income
from his fund and then his fund were  to fall by 40% (as in 2008) then the level of
income provided by his fund would be unsustainable, and his fund may never
recover to its former value. This is unacceptable  to (Mr A) as he is only prepared to
take what he sees as a limited amount of financial risk.
The adviser also issued  a letter dated 29 July 2013 in which he set out his 
recommendations. This confirmed the fees that would be charged:
 We agreed that you would pay for the advice you receive by fee, specifically 4.5% of the 
first £50,000  invested  into your Prudential Income Choice Annuity, then 4.0%  of the next 
£50,000, and 3.5%  of the excess. There is no tax-free cash amount  to be deducted from 
your fund. As the total value  of your pension fund is £188,873.55 this equated to a fee of 
Ref: DRN793557953.79%, which  is the percentage  that will be applied to your final fund value. The 
Understanding and Analysis  fee of £195 is to be offset against this amount and becomes 
non-payable. Any fees for ongoing  service  reviews of your Prudential Income Choice Annuity 
product will be determined at the time of
those reviews.
The letter also confirmed that Mr As attitude  to risk was low Balanced and that:
You discounted the conventional guaranteed annuity as it does not suit your needs,  it does 
not offer an income with the potential to offset some of the effects  of inflation, and that a 
Prudential Income Choice Annuity was/is more suited to your needs  than a conventional 
guaranteed annuity. You also felt that the description of your attitude to risk to investment 
being a 'Low Balanced almost Cautious' investor  is appropriate to you.
Mr As recorded objective was:
When discussing your retirement needs,  we identified that you were looking to start drawing  
benefits immediately  with a total annual income of approximately £20,000.00  (from all 
sources).
It was noted that:
We discussed the advantages and disadvantages of protecting  the value of your pension  
fund against a fall in value  before purchasing  your Prudential  Income  Choice Annuity, i.e. by 
switching to a less volatile fund such as gilts, fixed interest or cash deposits, however, you 
were happy  to leave  your funds as they were until such  time as they are transferred. Your  
Prudential Income Choice Annuity has the potential to offset some of the effects of inflation  
over time, which was one of your main objectives,  as you feel that you are young in 
retirement terms, and will require  your retirement  income for many  years.
The adviser then went on to discuss his recommendation.  He said:
To help meet your retirement income objectives,  I recommended that you invest  your 
pension funds in the Income Choice Annuity from Prudential. 
An Income Choice  Annuity  is a pension annuity  that pays you a regular income for life. It 
gives you the flexibility to choose the income  that suits you from within an income range and 
your income the opportunity to grow by linking it to the performance  of Prudential's With-
Profits Fund. It also guarantees an income  amount  paid to you, no matter  how the fund 
performs, and this is known as the 'Secure Level'. 
The With-Profits Fund is a fund that pools people's money together and invests it in a wide 
range of assets. Linking your income  to the With-Profits Fund  gives  it the chance  to grow 
over time. Prudential will look at how the With-Profits Fund has performed at least once a 
year. If it's done well, the profits may be used to help increase your income.  Prudential  may 
not necessarily share all of the profits each year and as such,  in good years will hold back  
some of the profits to use in years when the fund doesn't  perform so well.
For full details of the features and charges of the annuity, please refer to the key features 
document and the illustration I provided. For more details about  the With Profits  Fund,  how it 
works and how the profits  are shared,  please  refer to the 'Your With-Profits Plan - a guide to 
how we manage  the fund'  booklet I provided.  Having talked through  the details of these with 
Ref: DRN79355796you, I explained how important it is that you understand how the plan I have recommended  
works and fits in with your overall financial planning.
This plan is the most suitable  to you as it based on what you consider to be an acceptable 
level of risk and it offers  you a higher level of starting income  (£10,122.00pa) than the other  
alternatives that we considered,  You were not eligible for an enhanced/impaired-life 
annuity. We discussed/considered various Prudential illustrations and the risks involved, and 
a 'smoothed-return' required of 4.0%pa net of charges was the level of risk that was judged 
as acceptable.  The level of risk involved,  particularly of your income falling had to be
considered, and you felt that you have the capacity to cope in these circumstances, as you 
feel that you have  adequate alternative funds to make up any income  shortfall. You felt that 
this plan offered  the right level of income at outset,  you are prepared to accept some 
investment risk and at this level you felt it is an acceptable level of risk, together with the 
potential for the income provided  to modestly  increase  over time and offset some of the 
effects of inflation.  The annuity income provided will only go part way to meeting your overall  
income needs. Payment  of the annuity income on a 'monthly-in-arrears' basis is appropriate 
as it suits your cash-flow needs. Your annuity is paid to you on a 'with final proportion'  basis,
which means that in the event of your death part way through  a payment period/month,  a 
payment will be made  for those few final days. The original quotes I requested/we agreed  
were without proportion  basis, however when reviewing the quotes we realised the  
difference. Given that your annuity  is paid monthly, and pay's  more  than other  providers this 
was acceptable.  Your plan is without 'overlap' but does  have  the benefit of a 10 year 
guarantee, this means that in the event of your death within  the 10 year guarantee period, 
your annuity  income  payments would continue  in full for the balance  of the 10 year
guarantee period, payable to your wife, after which she would then receive the benefit  of the 
50% widow's pension.  If you die after the end of the 10 year guarantee period your wife 
would receive the benefit of the 50% widow's pension.  Currently  you are a non taxpayer and 
you are aware that when  your annuity income  is added to your current income you will 
become a basic rate taxpayer, and that income tax on a PAYE basis  will be applied to your 
annuity income.
He also set out the risks:
The rate of any future increase is unknown, and is not guaranteed
Your annuity payments may remain unchanged
Your income can fall if the performance of the fund is below the required smoothed  
return. However, it cannot fall below the Secure Level
The higher  your required smoothed return, the less likely the same  level of income 
can be maintained
Throughout
You are aware of these risks and disadvantages, and you are happy to proceed with this 
plan as you (and Mrs A) felt that the level of risk was acceptable and that you have adequate 
savings available  to cope with any adverse fluctuations in income.  Additionally, the annuity 
income provided will bridge the gap between now and when you receive  your State 
pension.
In addition:
Ref: DRN79355797Income level and smoothed return
I recommended that you receive the middle range income of £10,122.00 paid monthly  in 
arrears for your annuity.
To maintain this level of income over the life of your annuity a required smoothed return  of 
4.00% is needed.
We discussed the level of smoothed return required and how the higher the starting income  
the greater the potential  fall in income if the smoothed return  is not achieved. We also 
discussed your ability  to cope with fluctuations in this income and agreed that you 
understand that the income provided  has the potential to fall as well as rise. It was felt (from  
our discussions) that a smoothed  return  of 4.0%pa net of charges was/is  an achievable 
return over the medium to long term. Additionally, as previously stated, you have  your 
savings which you feel are more  than adequate to cope with any adverse fluctuations in the 
annuity income provided.
Secured Income Level
The Secured  Income Level guarantees that your income will never fall below a certain 
amount, known as the Secure Level, and this can never go down.
Your Secure Level  is the same as the lowest income  available  to you now, which  is 
£5,519.16. Prudential guarantee to pay this amount, even if the with-profits fund doesn't 
perform as well as expected. For more  information  about this, please refer to the key 
features document.
The adviser set out why other methods of income  generation  from the pension  fund were 
discounted. With respect to the drawdown:
Income Drawdown - Your pension funds are currently invested in a drawdown account 
(Aegon Retirement  Control Account). They  were  moved here so that you could access your 
tax-free cash amount  and help your daughter. You have  never  taken any form of income 
from your drawdown fund. You have discounted taking an income directly from the fund as 
this was regarded  as a high risk option, and you know that if you were to take maximum 
income from your fund and then your fund was to fall by say 40% (as in 2008) then the level 
of income provided  by this fund would then be unsustainable,  and your fund may never 
recover to its former value. This is unacceptable  to you as you are now only prepared to take 
what you perceive as a limited amount  of financial risk now that you have become 
dependent on your fund to provide your future income.
The with profits annuity does guarantee a set minimum  level of income (the drawdown  does 
not). However, the amount of income in excess of that is dependent on the performance of 
the with-profit fund to which the annuity is linked. In that respect it does represent some risk 
as to the level of income that will be supplied. Having said that, the drawdown  plan did 
present significant  risk to both capital and income because the money was invested in risk 
based assets. This presents an entirely  different level of risk than the with-profit annuity.  The 
annuity it is not volatile like an investment linked directly to equities  or risk based assets  
which would present more risk but potentially a higher return. 
Ref: DRN79355798Mr A opted  for the with-profit annuity with a 10 year guarantee  and a 50% widows pension. 
The drawdown did not have such benefits  although  any value could be used to provide 
benefits for a dependant. 
The level of income above the guaranteed level Mr W receives is significantly affected by the 
returns on the with-profit fund and the income  level he selects.  Mr A selected the highest 
level of income available  about  double that of the guaranteed level.  So, if with-profit returns 
were not high enough then this higher income might  not be supportable and his income  
could fall or remain the same. The illustrations  supplied by the annuity provider set out that 
to maintain Mr As chosen level of income would require an ongoing return  on the with-profit 
fund of 5% a year after charges. The illustrations also set out what fee the adviser would 
receive for the advice he had provided.   
The policy literature and Key Features for the annuity did explain the operation  of the 
annuity and that income  over the guaranteed amount could fluctuate in line with the 
investment returns applicable to the with-profit fund. This operation was also discussed in 
the advisers recommendation letter.  
 
The level of with-profit investment return that is declared is set at a level that the business 
concerned believes  is justified and supported by the fund assets. In deciding  what  return to 
apply it will take into account such issues as the investment  return  already declared, any 
benefits that have to be paid under the policies, previous  investment  returns  and what  
returns may be possible in future. This is what the annuity provider refers  to as smoothing. 
Investment returns are not guaranteed and can change. The declared with profit return 
which would be used  to determine Mr As income is indirectly linked to the performance of 
with profits  assets  but it is also as much  a matter of the businesss judgement as to what  is 
the right return to apportion bearing in mind the provider of the plan is taking into account a 
variety of factors to make  sure that existing returns and other benefits can be supported in 
the future.  It is by no means certain what returns will be. 
These matters were also discussed and set out in the literature for the annuity.
I can appreciate why concern has been  raised about  the drawdown being  recommended and 
then the annuity so soon  after that. The two sets of fees applicable can make that seem 
costly and unwarranted. But Mr As circumstances had clearly  changed  materially  in 2013 
and his income was much  lower than in 2011.  In that context the change  of approach, and 
taking an annuity,  would  not necessarily  be unsuitable  there are clear justifications for it as 
I have set out. The initial adviser fee of just under  4% would not be out of line with what I 
believe would be a reasonable range of charges applied for supplying professional advice, or 
excessive. It could seem excessive given the fees applicable in 2011, but as I have said, 
there was a justification for the change of approach and the new advice that was required 
and supplied. Mr A signed  a fee agreement which set out what fees would be charged and 
the fee is set out in the advisers letter of 29 July 2013. 
Mr As representative refers to an ongoing  0.5%  fee but I believe this relates to the 
drawdown plan.  With respect to the annuity the fee agreement confirms an ongoing fee will 
not be charged as any further fees would  be determined  when and if further advice was 
required.  
Mr A did have an amount  of capital  the majority  seemingly derived from a redundancy 
payment. But that was not of a level that would support  him indefinitely in retirement. It would 
Ref: DRN79355799likely be a combination  of his savings and his pension which  would provide the income and 
security he required. So it is not that he would not need to safeguard  his pension income  if 
he wished to do that in the circumstances (which the evidence  would  suggest  that he did). 
There was a recorded shortfall in income  and if Mr A had not required an income then I 
would have thought this would be questioned  at the time. Furthermore  the evidence 
suggests that an important issue was erosion of capital   which was a risk of remaining  in 
the drawdown plan.
Because Mr A had a low to medium attitude to risk to investment does not necessarily mean 
that he would be prepared to accept a large  reduction in his pension  brought about by the 
volatility of his drawdown or the effects of taking significant income  from a drawdown plan. 
The evidence is that he was concerned about  doing  that because  of the risk of a significant  
reduction in the value  of his pension. He therefore opted for an annuity. It is notable  that 
when Mr A was given advice in 2011  it was recorded that he intended to take an annuity 
when he was 65. So it would appear that Mr A was envisaging buying an annuity in the 
medium term.
The with-profit annuity does not present the same  level of risk. It does present some risk to 
the level of income  but conversely can provide  a higher level of income if performance is of a 
given level.  It  does  not present the kind of capital reduction risk that is present with 
drawdown. So, for Mr A, who is recorded  as being interested in the potential for such an 
annuity that was linked to some level of investment return, this would not be an unsuitable  
recommendation. 
Mr As representative has said that his main concern at the time was that he would lose 55% 
of his pension  if he died and this was his motivation for opting for the annuity. However that 
is not mentioned  in the advisers report or any of the fact finding information. The 
recommendation and needs identified and documented are very different and there is no 
mention of death benefits being a concern. Whilst I appreciate that a material  part of the 
complaint is that he was given incorrect or incomplete information about the drawdown death 
benefits, that is not supported by the evidence. Bearing that in mind  I cannot uphold this 
complaint based  on the evidence I have seen. 
It has also been submitted that Mr A thought that the income level was guaranteed (I 
assume at the level originally chosen).  But this is not the case  and I believe that was made 
clear in the product documentation and the advisers recommendation. I believe it was also 
made clear that the with-profit annuity  operated differently than a conventional annuity.  
In summary,  bearing in mind the evidence I do not believe the adviser  made an unsuitable  
recommendation, the operation of the with-profit annuity was explained  and there were 
justifications for the recommendation. The charges  were not excessive and were agreed with 
Mr A. 
Ref: DRN793557910my final decision 
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935579