K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc rejected her request  to upgrade  her account. 
Shes also unhappy it asked her to attend a branch  to verify her identity after her account 
was blocked. 
background
Miss K is an HSBC customer.  She requested an account upgrade  in early 2019 and was 
advised to visit an HSBC branch in order to submit  the documents  HSBC  said it needed. But 
Miss K wasnt able to visit a branch because she was travelling  to Cyprus for a medical  
procedure. So, her application for an account upgrade was rejected and a letter was sent to 
Miss K notifying her of this.
On 22 February 2019 HSBC said it had reason to suspect someone had attempted  to 
improperly gain access  to Miss Ks account over the telephone. So, it deregistered  her digital 
secure key. And, on 12 March 2019,  HSBC said it told her to visit an HSBC branch due to its 
concerns.
HSBC said Miss K contacted it on 2 April 2019. During this call she was told to visit a branch 
to verify her identity and it placed a temporary block on her card as a precautionary 
measure. The following day HSBC said it declined a transaction that had been attempted  on 
Miss Ks debit card.
When Miss K contacted  HSBC she confirmed her card transaction  had been genuine. So 
arrangements were made for her card use to be reinstated. Miss K expressed  dissatisfaction  
that her request  to upgrade her account  was denied and that the use of her card had been  
restricted. On 4 April HSBC sent Miss K its final response to her complaint. It explained that 
it didnt uphold her complaint  and it placed a further precautionary block  on her card. 
On 8 April Miss K telephoned HSBC. But HSBC said it couldnt reinstate access to her 
account over the telephone due to the reasons her account had been blocked.  It, again, 
explained she would need to visit a branch  to verify  her identity. And on 16 April it provided 
her with an option of withdrawing cash if needed.  
Being unhappy with HSBCs response  Miss K brought her complaint to our service. At the 
time she made her complaint Miss K was pregnant.  She wanted  to return  to the UK to give 
birth. But she wasnt  able to do so without  access to the money  in her account. And she 
wasnt able to attend an HSBC branch to verify her identity because there arent any HSBC 
branches in Cyprus. Miss K said this left her stranded overseas without access to any 
money or financial support from family or friends. This was an extremely  distressing 
experience for her. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint  and, while they empathised with her, didnt 
think that HSBC had acted unreasonably  in either declining to upgrade her account  or 
insisting she attend  a branch in order to verify her identity. But Miss K disagreed with our 
investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN73346762I recognise Miss Ks frustration here.  She was prevented  from accessing  her account and 
she didnt have any family and friends  who could financially support her. This effectively left 
her stranded her abroad and would have placed  her under a considerable amount of stress.  
She was also pregnant  and had a small child within her care,  which would have added to the 
distress and anxiety Ive no doubt she would  have felt. But while I recognise all of that what I 
have to determine is whether HSBC did anything wrong here.  
My role requires me to look at this complaint impartially and while Ive had regard to all 
Miss K has said, I also have to be fair to HSBC  too.
The first part of Miss Ks complaint concerns HSBCs refusal  to upgrade  her account. So, Ill 
focus on that issue first. 
HSBC said Miss K didnt  return  the documents it needed to upgrade  her account. I 
appreciate the reason why she couldnt  return those documents. And I understand she 
asked her mother, who was in the UK and thus able to attend an HSBC branch, to assist her 
in upgrading her account. But Miss K wasnt able to comply  with HSBCs request for 
information. And it wont allow anyone else to upgrade an account  on a customers  behalf. 
So here, Miss K needed to be present for this process to take place. I think  this is 
reasonable because the account holder bears the responsibility for the account. So, I cant 
fairly find that HSBC  made an error in not upgrading this account as Miss K had wanted. 
Ill turn next to the issue of whether HSBC  acted reasonably in placing a block on Miss Ks 
account.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Where a bank suspects fraud it must take positive action on a 
customers behalf. Preventing fraud  is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To 
do so, a bank  may block an account  and prohibit transactions if it thinks  someone has 
attempted to gain access without the account holders permission.
HSBC say the reason it restricted access to Miss Ks account was to prevent fraudulent 
misuse of her account by others due to concerns that someone  was trying to improperly  
access her account. I understand that when  HSBC blocked Miss Ks account  it was an 
inconvenient and frustrating experience. But I accept the reasons why HSBC  felt the security 
of her account may have been  compromised. And I think HSBC had an obligation to block  
Miss Ks account given  those concerns. This was just as much  for her protection  as it was 
for HSBCs. 
I think, overall, it was reasonable for HSBC to respond in the way it did to ensure it was 
acting in Miss Ks best interests.  I believe it was simply trying to safeguard  Miss Ks account  
from potential fraud  and unauthorised access. And Im satisfied that the blocks were  added 
appropriately and in good faith. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that HSBC  made an error 
or that it acted unfairly when it blocked  Miss Ks account. 
HSBC said the block on her account  couldnt  be removed without her physically attending in 
branch and producing identification  documents. I understand Miss Ks difficulties in attending 
a branch as she had no branches accessible to her in Cyprus. But HSBC said in 
circumstances where  its concerned about  potential fraud its policy  is to ask a customer  to 
visit a branch with photographic ID to unlock  their account and it wasnt  willing to deviate 
Ref: DRN73346763from its policy here. Its clear that Miss K HSBCs  insistence that she attend a branch to 
verify her identity was unfair. So, Ive thought carefully about whether what  HSBC asked her 
to do to unlock  her account  was reasonable. 
Having done so Im persuaded  that the approach HSBC took here was in line with the 
security procedure it has in place for these situations. Miss K may disagree with HSBCs 
approach here. But its entitled to determine  its own policy in relation to account security. So, 
we cant comment on whether a business policy is right or tell it that its policy  should be 
changed. But we can consider whether a business has followed its policy  fairly. And, in the 
individual circumstances  here, Im satisfied  HSBC has done that.
Miss K clearly  explained  to HSBC why she couldnt comply with its request that she attend a 
branch. She asked  it to offer her an alternative  way of verifying her identity in the 
circumstances. But HSBC  said its procedures  didnt permit her to clear security in a different 
way. And given the concerns it had about the security of her account I cant  criticise HSBC  
for refusing to depart  from its policy or fairly conclude that it acted unreasonably. 
Miss K told our service  that HSBC informed  her she could verify her identity if she provided a 
copy of her passport,  which had been certified  by a solicitor. She did this but it was rejected 
by HSBC as it said it needed  to physically  verify  Miss Ks identity in branch. 
Our service requested evidence that HSBC told Miss K she could verify her identity if she 
provided it with identification  documents that had been certified  by a solicitor.  Miss K wasnt 
able to confirm  the date or time of that call. And the only call recording HSBC  has been able 
to provide our service with is the one that took place on 8 April 2019.
Ive listened carefully  to the call Miss K made  to HSBC that day. This call is particular lengthy 
 it last over an hour. And its clear during that call that Miss K is extremely  distressed and 
anxious that she cant access money in her account. HSBC  instruct Miss K to attend  a 
branch to verify her identity and gain access to her account. Theres no reference to HSBC 
permitting her to circumvent security by providing certified documents.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen its clear that the only way in which Miss K was able to 
unlock her account was to visit a branch with identification. Given  HSBCs concerns  that 
originated from the telephone conversation in early 2019 Im satisfied that asking Miss K to 
attend a branch was a reasonable precaution for it to adopt here. So, I cant fairly conclude it 
made an error in making this request. And taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied 
that the way in which HSBC responded was reasonable in the circumstances.  
I can see that, while HSBC blocked online transactions,  it allowed Miss K to use her card for 
cash withdrawals. It also allowed point of sale transactions to be made subject to a security  
check. Given these  alternatives,  Im satisfied HSBC  gave  Miss K some access  to her 
account while she was overseas.
I appreciate the reasons why Miss K brought  this complaint to our service.  And I sympathise 
with the difficulties she found herself  in. But for the reasons  outline  I dont think HSBC has 
done anything  wrong here. Its acted fairly and reasonably and I dont  think  it would be fair to 
ask it to do anymore.  I know that will come as a disappointment to her but I hope shes  able 
to accept the explanations  shes now been  given.
Ref: DRN73346764my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7334676