K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a charge 
card. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill 
refer to Allianz as the seller to keep  things simple. 
Ms A says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI policy on her charge card. 
Ms A bought the policy  in 1996 at the same time as taking out the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms As case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Ms As credit agreement. In it, there  was a separate  section relating to 
PPI which  included a brief description of the PPI and it set out some basic  cost details. I can 
see the box requesting  cover has been  ticked and MYSELF  has been written  in box where 
the name of who should be insured went and Ms As date of birth is entered  in the PPI 
section to confirm  the cover was for her. Ms A has signed this form. 
Looking at the way the form was set out, I think Ms A would  have understood what she was 
applying for, and wouldve known that she could have left the box unticked if she didnt want  
to take the PPI. 
I also note that the premiums for the PPI appeared on Ms As account statements, so if it 
wasnt something that she had agreed to take then I think  she would have questioned it 
when the premiums were  taken from her account. 
So with all Ive seen,  I think Allianz  made  it clear Ms A had a choice about taking the PPI, 
and she chose to take it, knowing  she didnt have  to.
Ms A says the policy was recommended to her. Allianz says it didnt  make  a personal 
recommendation. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think  Allianz recommended  the PPI 
to Ms A. It looks like the application was sent to Ms A to complete in her own time  I say 
this because her address  is pre-printed  but the rest of the form has been completed by      
Ms A.  So it didnt have  to check it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough clear 
information so she could decide  if she wanted to take it. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Ms A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ms A was eligible  for the policy and doesnt appear to have been  affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Based on what I know about Ms As circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. Ms A says she wouldve received  between three and six months sick pay 
Ref: DRN75688282benefit from her employer. And she had some savings she couldve used. This policy 
couldve paid out 15% of her monthly balance  on top of her sick pay until her balance  was 
repaid if she was off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Having  the PPI 
wouldve also meant she could have used any savings she had towards other essential 
costs. So I think she couldve found the policy to be useful. 
With this in mind, I dont think better information  wouldve  stopped her buying  it. And I dont 
think that Ms A has lost out as a result of anything  Allianz mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7568828