K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his bank  account without notice. 
Background
Mr H had a current account  with Monzo.  
On 14 June 2018 Mr H received  a payment of £2,000 into his account. On the same  day 
Monzo received  information from another bank that Mr H wasnt entitled  to the money.  So it 
reviewed Mr Hs account and decided to close it immediately.
Mr H complained to Monzo.  He said he hasnt done anything wrong and Monzo shouldnt 
have closed his account without giving  him a chance to explain the payment into his 
account. Monzo said it had acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
account. And made a commercial decision it no longer wanted Mr H as a customer.
Mr H wasnt happy with Monzos response. So, he brought  his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint and said based on the information  Monzo  had about  
how Mr H was using his account; it hadnt  done  anything wrong when it decided to close his 
account. Mr H disagreed. He says Monzo hasnt explained why it closed his account.  And 
the closure of his account has caused him stress and inconvenience.  And he says hes out 
of pocket because  he cant  use the account to trade.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
I am aware  that Mr H has also made a separate complaint about what Monzo  did with the 
remaining funds in his account when his account  was closed. That will be addressed  in a 
separate decision. This decision will focus  on the closure of Mr Hs account.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  Mr H is upset that Monzo  closed  his account. He says he hasnt done 
anything wrong  and cant believe how Monzo has acted. 
I appreciate the impact  his account  being  closed had on Mr H. But Ive looked  at the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs account. And the information Monzo received regarding how Mr H 
was using his account. Having done so, Im satisfied Monzo has acted within the terms and 
conditions of the account. And it wasnt required to give Mr H a reason, as much  as hed like 
to know. So, I cant say Monzo has done anything  wrong by not providing this information to 
him.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs account confirm Monzo can close  the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. I think considering what  happened  in this case, its 
fair and reasonable Monzo took the action it did. I can see that Monzo wrote to Mr H on 14 
June 2018 to let him know it was closing his account. So, Im satisfied Monzo  hasnt done  
anything wrong  when it closed the account.
I appreciate that the immediate closure  of the account has caused Mr H inconvenience  and 
upset. But the bank can make commercial  decisions  about  who it offers banking services to. 
Ref: DRN75818552They cannot  unfairly discriminate against  a customer. But they can say they no longer wish 
to do business  with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to 
decide who they want to contract with. And Im satisfied that Monzo  has exercised its 
commercial decision legitimately when  it decided to close  Mr Hs account. So, I cannot fairly 
and reasonably say its done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7581855