K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE havent paid their claim in full 
under their travel insurance policy, following the loss of Mrs Gs passport while  on holiday.
background
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs G were returning from a trip abroad.  After dropping off their hire 
car on the Friday, Mrs G became aware that she didnt have her handbag. Despite checking 
the car and with the hire car company Mrs G was unable to locate her bag. Her bag 
contained some personal items including her passport.
Mrs G was made aware that she couldnt board her return flight to the UK without her 
passport, and that Monday was the earliest  they could get to the consulate to get an 
emergency document to allow her to fly.
As the consulate was located some distance  from the airport,  Mr and Mrs G hired a car and 
booked accommodation  close  to the consulate. They attended the consulate on the Monday, 
and were able to get the required travel documents on the same day. Mr and Mrs G say that 
they couldve got a direct flight  home  on the following Thursday, but chose a same day 
indirect flight which returned them to a different UK airport than they had departed  from. This 
necessitated them taking  a train to where their car was parked in the UK in order  to return  
home  but they felt this more reasonable than waiting three days for a direct  flight and 
incurring additional  costs.
On their return Mr and Mrs G lodged  a claim with Great Lakes Insurance SE for the lost 
handbag and the items that were in it, along  with all of their costs associated  with missing 
their planned  return  flight, getting the emergency  travel documents and the additional costs 
in them  returning  home via a different UK airport. Great Lakes paid Mrs Gs claim relating to 
her lost handbag  and the personal  items  it contained  under the personal  baggage section  
of the cover   Mrs G isnt complaining about  this part of the claim. The part of Mrs Gs claim 
that hasnt been paid in full relates to the costs  associated in getting  Mrs G the emergency 
travel documents, including their additional  accommodation costs and new flight  costs  in 
getting home  which Mr and Mrs G say has left them £674.49 out of pocket. 
Great Lakes say the policy limit for a lost passport or visa claim is limited  to £250, which 
theyve paid Mrs G. Mr and Mrs G say that as Mrs G wasnt  able to fly due to not having  the 
right travel documents that the return ticket was lost, so the balance of their claim should 
be considered  under  the section of the policy for loss, theft or damage to tickets.  This section 
of the cover  has a maximum  payable  of £1,000, which would cover the outstanding balance  
of their claim. Great Lakes say that the tickets werent lost, stolen  or damaged  and as such  
this part of the policy is not relevant to Mrs Gs claim.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs G brought  their complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt Great 
Lakes had acted  fairly  in how they considered the claim and didnt recommend that they 
need do anything  more.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  saying that they still believed  their outstanding claim should be 
considered under the loss of tickets  part of the cover.  So the case was passed to me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN76003672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the policy Mr and Mrs G took out with Great  Lakes along with the claim 
information. 
From what  Ive seen the policy included cover  under section E for Personal effects, money  
and travel documents. Under this part of the policy it sets out that The insurer will pay for 
the Loss, Theft or Damage to  and it separates out different levels  of cover  for personal 
possessions, money,  tickets and passport or visas  with each part of the cover  having a  
maximum that will be payable in the event of a claim. 
Mr and Mrs G have explained that they feel the return ticket was lost as Mrs G was unable  
to use it, and as such  Great Lakes should  pay out the balance  of her claim under the section 
of the policy  relating to lost tickets.
While I appreciate the point that Mr and Mrs G are making, Im not persuaded that the return 
tickets were lost or that they meet the definition to be considered under the part of the 
cover relating to lost, damaged  or stolen airline  tickets. I think  their claim sits under the 
section relating to loss of passport or visas,  which includes cover  for the cost of emergency  
replacement or temporary passports or visas including  reasonable and receipted expenses  
incurred to obtain them. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs G, the limit on this section of the cover  
is £250. 
Mr and Mrs G have raised concerns  about whether this part of the policy shouldve been 
highlighted to them so they wouldve known that in this particular situation  they wouldnt be 
covered. Im satisfied the policy schedule clearly sets out the policy  limit for passports or 
visas  and this is a similar level of cover to whats  provided  under  many travel insurance 
policies. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover  every situation,  and while I appreciate  that                  
Mr and Mrs G ended up significantly out of pocket I think Great  Lakes has fairly considered  
their claim and that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Great Lakes to pay the outstanding 
balance.
Ref: DRN76003673my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7600367