K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr S payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2010.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr S says he was told he had to take the PPI to get his mortgage. However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. And Im conscious that this did 
happen about 19 years  ago, and I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened that long ago. Also Mr S took only unemployment cover, rather  than including the 
usual sickness and disability cover  and that suggests he knew at the time he had at least  
some choice. If the adviser  had wanted to force him to take PPI, its more  likely the adviser  
would have told Mr S that he had to take the whole usual package. 
However overall, without  stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added  without  
Mr Ss consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. I will explain.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr S, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr Ss particular  circumstances.  However,  finding  yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would  have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss situation  at the time:
Its likely  Mr S was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr S received any redundancy 
pay. So it would have put off the time when he would need  to fall back  on any 
savings, or other means he may have had for paying the mortgage and other living 
costs. And it seems Mr S had only limited savings at the time. So this all would have 
put Mr S in a more  secure  position,  if hed eventually lost income due unemployment. 
Ref: DRN77594002It seems  that Mr S was not affected by any of the significant exclusions.  
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7759400