K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited wouldnt repair his car 
under his minor  repairs  motor insurance  policy.  He wants it make the repairs  and pay him 
compensation for his hassle. 
background
Mr Rs car was damaged  in a car park and he made a claim  for its repair.  But Red Sands 
declined the claim  based on photographs provided  by Mr R. It said the damage was outside  
the policy limits. Mr R was unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Red 
Sands had reasonably declined the claim due to the amount of damage. Red Sands later 
agreed to send a technician  to assess the damage. He thought  this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R thought it unfair that he had to bring his complaint to us in order to prompt Red Sands 
to send a technician. He didnt want the technician to inspect his car. Mr R later paid for the 
repairs himself.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Rs frustration that Red Sands  rejected  his claim. He said the 
photographs didnt  show the true extent of the damage.  He thought  Red Sands were 
unscrupulous and he told us that he was raising  this with the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The policy terms and conditions that Red Sands relied on to decline the claim were:
What is not insured?
- Any Chip, Minor Dent, Scratched Area and/or Minor Scuff  where the total damaged 
area is larger than 30cm  in diameter  and 3mm in depth
- Any Chip, Minor Dent, Scratched Area and/or Minor Scuff,  being  caused by the 
same incident or where Minor Damage extends across multiple panels, where the 
total damaged  area is larger than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in depth
- Any Minor Damage that requires a body shop repair
So I think its clear that the damage must  meet  both parameters for depth and diameter in 
order for a claim to be rejected. Mr R said he measured the damage to his car and there  was 
a dent less than 3mm deep and the area of damage  was 4cm wide.  He said light reflections 
made it look deeper than this in photographs.  Red Sands said the dent was deeper than 
3mm and the area of damage wider than 30cm and the repair would require  a body shop. 
Ref: DRN74844422Ive looked at the photographs that Mr R provided  to Red Sands. I can understand why Red 
Sands thought they didnt  meet the policy requirements. When theres a dispute such  as this 
between an insurer and a consumer, we ask the parties for further evidence to justify  or 
challenge the decisions made.  
Mr R said a repairer told him that the repairs wouldnt need a body shop. But he hasnt 
provided an engineers  report for me to consider. After Mr R brought  his complaint  to us, Red 
Sands offered to send a technician to inspect his car. I think  that would have been a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve the dispute  over the extent of the damage. 
But Mr R declined this offer, although  he told us that hed pressed Red Sands to do just this. 
Mr R resented that Red Sands only agreed to send a technician to inspect  his car after he 
had brought his complaint  to our service. But I think Mr R then didnt give Red Sands the 
opportunity to justify  its decision. So I have no evidence to show that it unfairly  or 
unreasonably declined Mr Rs claim.  
Mr R said the repairs cost him £350. He wanted compensation for his trouble and upset. I 
can understand his frustration. But as I cant say that Red Sands acted wrongly  in rejecting 
his claim,  I dont require  it to pay Mr R any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7484442