K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about advice given  to them by AWD  Home  Finance, a mortgage 
broker and appointed representative  of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited. They  
say it mis-sold a mortgage and other products  to them. A claims management company 
(CMC) brings this complaint on behalf  of Mr and Mrs E. It asks that L&G refunds fees and 
pays compensation for Mr and Mrs Es financial loss and inconvenience.
background
Mr and Mrs E took advice from the broker in 2005. The CMC says the advice given by the 
broker wasnt suitable. It says Mr and Mrs E didnt want  or need to re-mortgage and had to 
pay an early repayment  charge to do so. It says they were cold called by the broker  against  
their wishes.
The CMC says Mr and Mrs E had no need  to consolidate unsecured  debts and the brokers  
advice to do this was unsuitable.  The CMA says Mr and Mrs E should have been advised to 
take a further  advance  from their existing lender.
The CMC also says that Mr and Mrs E paid a solicitor to act on their behalf  even though  
some lenders offered this free of charge. And they were coerced into using the services of a 
particular solicitor. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
the brokers records say that Mr and Mrs E wanted to consolidate debts  and borrow  an 
additional £5,000 for home  improvements. They wanted one manageable monthly 
payment. The mortgage recommended by the broker achieved  these  aims.
Mr and Mrs E were  aware of the ERC payable to their previous lender and chose to go 
ahead.
There was no evidence of a discussion about Mr and Mrs E asking their existing lender 
for a further advance  or whether this was available.
Mr and Mrs E made monthly  payments  for their mortgage, loan and credit  cards of about  
£1,054. The budget  planner completed  by the broker showed they had £15 left each 
month after meeting  their expenses. Mr and Mrs E wanted  to borrow  an additional 
£5,000. After taking  out the new mortgage (including  the additional borrowing) their 
monthly debt repayments were  £758.  
consolidating the unsecured debts  meant  they were repaid over a longer period. The 
suitability letter said this could result in more interest being paid. The consolidation 
allowed Mr and Mrs E to achieve their aims  to borrow  an additional £5,000 and have 
one manageable payment.
the lender  didnt  offer free legal  services. So Mr and Mrs E had to pay for this. The 
broker might  have  recommended  a solicitor, but there  was no evidence  Mr and Mrs E 
were coerced into using a particular solicitor. Mr and Mrs E agreed to pay the solicitors 
fee.
Ref: DRN76870792the broker applied  a legal administration fee, which was for assistance with the legal  
work. Mr and Mrs E agreed  to this.
The CMC responded  on behalf of Mr and Mrs E. In summary, it said Mr and Mrs Es aims 
could have been achieved by taking  a further advance from their existing  lender.  They  would 
have avoided having to pay the ERC  and other costs of re-mortgaging.  The CMC  said the 
broker used the idea of one manageable payment as a sales  tactic, and failed to explain the 
costs of consolidating debts. It said the broker received  £2,650 from Mr and Mrs E, over 
£8,000 in commission and a legal  administration fee of £290 and this was its motivation for 
recommending the re-mortgage. 
The CMC had raised concerns that the broker received commission  for recommending a 
particular conveyancer. Since the complaint came to us, L&G made  an offer to resolve  this, 
which the CMC accepted  on Mr and Mrs Es behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The broker  recommended  the mortgage  to Mr and Mrs E. So it had to take reasonable steps 
to ensure the mortgage was suitable for them, including  gathering information to establish  
their needs  and circumstances. L&G provided copies of documents from that time, including  
a client review and suitability letter. 
The CMC says several aspects of the brokers advice were unsuitable. Ive looked  at the 
specific aspects here and at the recommendation as a whole. 
applying to their existing lender for a further  advance: 
Theres nothing to suggest the broker asked  Mr and Mrs E if theyd applied to their existing 
lender for a further advance  or discussed it with them. A further advance from their existing 
lender would have avoided much  of the costs involved in re-mortgaging.  However, I must 
also take into account that I cant  be sure now this would have been available. 
The interest rate on Mr and Mrs Es previous mortgage was 5.19% and the mortgage term 
ended in mid 2034. The interest rate on the mortgage recommended by the broker  was 
4.24% and the mortgage term ended in 2030. So the interest rate for the mortgage  
recommended by the broker was lower and the mortgage was repayable over a shorter  
period, which  likely means less interest  would be payable over the life of the mortgage.
consolidating debts : 
Mr and Mrs E wanted to consolidate  debts, including an overdraft,  credit  card accounts and 
a personal loan with about four years of its term left. The brokers records  dont say that 
Mr and Mrs E were  struggling to maintain  debt repayments. However, they had only £15 left 
each month  after meeting  their expenses, so they had little flexibility to deal with any 
increase in their outgoings. 
Ref: DRN76870793The broker  had to consider whether debt consolidation was suitable, taking into account  the 
costs associated with increasing the period over which a debt is repaid and whether its 
appropriate to secure  a previously unsecured loan. 
Mr and Mrs E made monthly  payments  for their mortgage, loan and credit  cards of about  
£1,054. Mr and Mrs E wanted to borrow an additional £5,000. After taking out the new 
mortgage (including the additional borrowing) their monthly debt repayments were £758.  
One of Mr and Mrs Es credit card accounts  had a zero interest rate. The broker  could have 
recommended that Mr and Mrs E borrow less and leave the credit card debt (about £3,500)  
in place. Whether this would have been  better for them depends in part when  the zero rate 
was due to end. Unfortunately, this information  isnt now available.
The recommendation letter said that while the interest rate on the mortgage was lower, the 
overall cost of repaying the debts over a longer period was likely to increase. Mr and Mrs E 
said they wanted to proceed as they wanted  one manageable  payment.  While the CMC now 
disputes this, theres nothing in the paperwork from that time to suggest this wasnt  what 
they wanted. The mortgage paperwork said Mr and Mrs E had previously  consolidated  
debts. And theyd been made aware of the implications of securing  previously  unsecured 
debt on their home.
the ERC : 
L&G provided a copy of a handwritten note, signed by Mr and Mrs E, saying they knew  
about the ERC and wanted  to complete  the mortgage to secure the fixed rate and raise 
capital immediately. 
other costs  of re-mortgaging: 
The CMC says Mr and Mrs E incurred costs of £12,000 in re-mortgaging. About £6,500 of 
this related to payment protection insurance  which has been dealt with separately. 
Nonetheless, they incurred costs of about  £5,600. 
was the recommendation suitable?
I think there are problems with the advice here. In particular I dont think  the brokers  records  
show it considered  whether it would be better  for Mr and Mrs E to ask their existing lender 
for a further advance. But, on balance, I dont  think  I can fairly conclude  that Mr and Mrs E 
are worse  off as a result. Its not clear that Mr and Mrs Es existing lender would have offered 
a further advance that met Mr and Mrs Es aims.  And the recommended mortgage had a 
lower interest rate and a shorter  term than Mr and Mrs Es existing  mortgage.  
There were costs involved with the re-mortgage  and debt consolidation.  But, overall, I dont 
think the recommendation was unsuitable.  It met Mr and Mrs Es aims  to raise money for 
home improvements and consolidate debts. Mr and Mrs E wanted to raise  capital 
immediately and were  prepared to pay their previous lenders ERC to do so. Mr and Mrs Es 
monthly outgoings reduced  as a result of the re-mortgage. The amount of disposable income 
Mr and Mrs E had each month  increased from £15 to about  £300. 
the legal  costs
Mr and Mrs E paid just under £700 for the legal  work  involved in the re-mortgage. The legal 
costs included a legal  and administration fee of just under £300, which was paid to the 
broker on completion. L&G has said this related  to administrative work associated with the 
mortgage, such as searches,  getting  redemption figures and answering  questions.  
Ref: DRN76870794The broker  charged  separate fees for various  parts of its service,  but I think it was clear  
about that  and how it structured its fees was a matter for it to decide. I dont think Mr and 
Mrs E were  misled about the costs involved. Free  legals wasnt identified as a priority in 
their discussions  with the broker, and I find nothing in the mortgage paperwork to suggest 
that the lender offered a free legal service with this particular mortgage  deal. 
While the broker recommended a particular conveyancer, it doesnt follow that Mr and Mrs E 
lost out as a result. They would always have had to pay any legal  costs  arising from the re-
mortgage, whichever  conveyancer they used. They had the option of using their own solicitor 
if they wanted or looking around for a better deal. The legal costs were  paid from the 
mortgage proceeds, which  is not unusual or unreasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  10 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7687079