K822xComplaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc blocked  his account after his voice  was 
incorrectly matched to a fraudster's during a call with the bank. Mr K was abroad at the time 
and the block  meant  he wasnt able to access his account. 
Background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 November 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to provide  any additional comments  or 
information they wanted me to consider before making my final decision. Mr K has got in 
touch to confirm he accepts the settlement  proposed in the provisional decision. Barclays 
has also confirmed it accepts the provisional decision. Neither party  has provided any new 
information. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted the provisional  decision and I havent been  sent any new 
information to consider  I see no reason  to change the conclusions  I reached. I intend to 
proceed in line with my provisional decision and uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mr K £400.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN76238482Copy Provisional  Decision  5 November 2019
Complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account after his voice was incorrectly 
matched to a fraudster's  during a call with the bank. Mr K was abroad at the time and the block meant 
he wasnt able to access his account. 
Background
Mr K travelled abroad with family in July 2018. Whilst he was away, Mr K called  Barclays.  
Mr Ks voice was matched  to a known  fraudster  via Barclays voice recognition  system and his current 
account was blocked.  When Mr K asked how to remove the account  block,  so he could access his 
funds, he was told to visit a branch on his return to the UK. 
Mr K was travelling  with his wife who was undergoing treatment  for a serious health condition  at the 
time as well as his family. Hes explained that the impact of the account  being  blocked  was severe  
and caused a lot of trouble  and upset. Mr Ks joint account with was also blocked  and hes told us 
they didnt have access to other funds. 
On their return Mr K complained. Barclays  responded to Mr Ks complaint about his sole account and 
joint account  in one letter and offered £500. Mr K referred his concerns  to our service  and it was 
passed to an investigator. 
The investigator asked Barclays to increase the total award to £800 which it agreed to do. But Mr K 
says hed like Barclays to cover  the cost of the holiday as well. Mr K asked to appeal  so the complaint  
was referred to an ombudsman. But when we looked at the case again we had to split it. As a service 
were unable to progress complaints about joint and sole named  accounts in the same case. As a 
result, the investigator  split the case. 
The investigator went  on to explain to say that he thought £400 was fair for the issues  raised with Mr 
Ks sole account. Mr K didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Before I give my findings for this case Id like to thank  Mr K and Barclays for their patience. After the 
original case was referred for a decision  it was noticed that the complaint related to three separate  
accounts which were in sole and joint names. As a service  we cant deal with joint and sole accounts  
as part of the same case so we had to split them. But I can see this has added  to the wait for 
receiving a decision. 
Ive also taken  the step of issuing a provisional decision as I wanted to make sure the settlement 
proposed is clearly explained and give all parties a final opportunity to provide their comments. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has explained how difficult the situation was as he and his family were abroad without access to 
banking facilities. Mr Ks also explained  that his wife was experiencing serious health problems  at the 
time and theyd hoped to use the holiday as a chance to relax and rest. I understand the situation was 
particularly difficult for Mr K and his family and have taken  that into account  when considering the 
award. 
I can see how upset Mr K is by what happened and I understand that the wider circumstances 
surrounding his holiday made it even more important. But I have to balance that against Barclays 
actions and what  the account terms say. I understand Mr K is upset  his voice  was matched to a 
known fraudster which  meant he had to visit a branch to remove the blocks. But Barclays' account 
Ref: DRN76238483terms say it will stop or suspend access to an account if it suspects there may be fraudulent or 
unauthorised use. Barclays terms also say it can suspend access  if it thinks  that step is necessary  to 
protect the security of the account.  Im satisfied that Barclays terms allow  it to suspend  or block 
account access  if its concerned  about potential fraud.  
In this case, Mr Ks voice  matched a fraudsters via Barclays voice recognition  system. I appreciate  
that Mr K was subsequently able to have all the blocks removed when  he visited a branch in the UK 
but that doesnt  meant Barclays made a mistake  by suspending access. Barclays had a genuine 
concern and acted on that, which is in line with the account terms.  I appreciate that the impact of the 
account block  was particularly difficult for Mr K but Im not persuaded the decision to suspend  access 
to his account was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
As Ive said,  I understand Mr K was abroad which meant his options were  far more  limited than if hed 
been at home.  Whilst I agree that the impact of the account  block was significant, I think £400 fairly 
reflects that. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr K £400. 
Mr K and Barclays Bank UK PLC have until 5 December  2019 to send me any additional comments  
or information they want me to consider before making my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7623848