K822xcomplaint
Mr M acquired household  furniture in 2018,  using his Santander  UK Plc credit card. He 
complains that the goods were not of satisfactory  quality.  He wants to reject the goods, and 
to receive from Santander a full refund of his credit  card payment.
background 
Mr M used  his Santander credit card to pay a £200  deposit for the furniture. He used his 
credit card with another provider to pay the balance of this acquisition.
The furniture developed a fault,  and Mr M attempted to complain to the supplying merchant. 
But he found  that the merchant had gone out of business, and so he complained to 
Santander.
Santander declined  to consider Mr Ms complaint, saying that it was not responsible for the 
quality of the goods acquired. This was because the Debtor/Creditor/Supplier  (DCS) 
relationship necessary for it to be responsible  did not exist.
Mr M referred his complaint to us in May 2019. Mr M also complained to the provider of the 
credit card, which he had used to pay the balance.  This provider accepted  responsibility  for 
the quality of the goods concerned, gave Mr M a full refund, and arranged for the furniture to 
be taken away.
Santander told us the DCS relationship did not exist, because an intermediary was involved 
between it and the supplier. Our investigator  said the intermediary was a payment gateway,  
which simply provided to suppliers the means  of processing card payments, and its 
involvement did not affect the DCS relationship.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint  should be upheld, but that Mr M could not 
receive a full refund twice. Our investigator  recommended that Santander  should  pay Mr M 
£100, in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had experienced, relating  to 
this complaint.  
Mr M accepted our investigators  conclusions and recommendation, but Santander  did not. 
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator. 
Santander has a responsibility in certain instances  to ensure that goods  of satisfactory 
quality, and corresponding  to their description,  have been supplied. This means that a 
reasonable person would have regarded the goods  as satisfactory, taking  into account all 
relevant circumstances. 
Such responsibility occurs  when  there  is an appropriate DCS relationship between the 
Debtor (Mr M in this complaint), the Creditor (Santander  in this complaint) and the Supplier 
(the merchant). All appropriate relationships  are three-way, and so the presence of a fourth 
party would make the relationship inappropriate.  
Ref: DRN79943292Santander argued that there was an intermediary  involved in the relationship between it, 
Mr M and the merchant. This intermediary was a payment gateway, and I find that its 
involvement did not affect the DCS relationship.  I also note that this view was shared by the 
provider of Mr Ms other credit  card (which he used to pay the balance),  as well as by our 
investigator.
Mr M told us that his other  credit card provider  has agreed that the goods should be rejected, 
and it has given him a full refund. In these circumstances,  the only matter to be considered 
in deciding whether further  compensation should be awarded to Mr M is non-financial loss 
arising from his complaint  against Santander.
This complaint has taken  a long time to resolve, and has caused moderate distress and 
inconvenience to Mr M. It is unfortunate that Santander initially  decided  an appropriate DCS 
relationship did not exist,  and that it continued  to hold this view despite  our investigators 
conclusion and recommendations.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £100 in this instance (as recommended by our investigator)  is 
appropriate, given  the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. It is consistent with our approach 
to awarding compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Santander UK Plc to pay compensation of £100 directly to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7994329