K821x#15complaint
Q is a business  partnership. Q is seeking  to recover £40,531.08 from Lloyds Bank  PLC, 
which it lost after falling  victim to an email intercept scam. 
background
Q was unfortunately  duped by a scammer  after email  correspondence with its solicitor,  
regarding a property  purchase, was intercepted. 
After legitimate email  exchange with its solicitor, the scammer asked Q to make  a payment 
of £55,000 to cover the remaining funds due on exchange. The scammer told Q it needed to 
make the payment to different account details  than it had previously (Q had previously paid a 
reservation fee of £15,000  to a different bank account for the solicitor). Q was sent an 
invoice with the new account details  and was told the different account  was so that the 
solicitor could keep  a track of what each payment was for. 
Q sent an initial tester payment of £5,000  from a joint current account the partners of Q held 
with bank C. After receiving confirmation of receipt of payment from who Q thought  was their 
solicitor, the remaining £50,000 was sent from Qs account with Lloyds on the evening of 
3 May 2018.  On 4 May 2018 Q became suspicious when it didnt receive documentation it 
was expecting to confirm the exchange of the property. Following contact with the solicitor it 
became apparent Q had made  the payment to a scammer. 
The initial payment of £5,000 made  from an account  with bank C has been  considered  under 
a separate complaint. So, in this decision,  I am only looking at the payment of £50,000 made 
from Qs business account with Lloyds. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
It is accepted by both parties that Q authorised the scam payment of £50,000 from its 
business account. Lloyds tried to recover the funds,  but it only managed to recover 
£9,468.92 as most of the funds had already been removed from the recipient account. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Q was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. The scammer  intercepted  the solicitors emails  and began contacting Q 
in their place  requesting the payment of the remaining funds  be made to different bank 
details. So, although  Q did not intend  the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, Q is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Lloyds should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Ref: DRN70572612Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
Due to the time thats passed Lloyds  is unable to say if the payment of £50,000 triggered its 
system. Q has said after making the payment  on 3 May 2018  there  was a notification to say 
the payment may take a few hours to go through, but it does not recall any contact from 
Lloyds regarding the payment before it debited its account. In the absence of any evidence  
to the contrary,  on balance,  Im persuaded its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt make  
any enquiries about this payment before processing it. 
In response to our investigators initial assessment upholding the complaint, Lloyds said: 
Q had missed an opportunity to check with the solicitor that the account details 
provided in the email  were genuine and, in making this point, referred to the 
disclaimer included within the foot of the email from the solicitor.
 
prior to the scam, Q was sent invitations on educating itself as a business customer 
on fraudulent transactions and says these  opportunities  werent  taken up by Q.
 
it doesnt agree its actions should  be compared  to the British  Standards  Institutes 
October 2017 Protecting Customers from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud or 
financial abuse  Code of Practice, which it was not signed up to. 
while the investigator had concluded the scam payment was a larger  payment  and to 
a new payee,  as this was a business account which  generally carried  a large 
balance, and because  the payment of £50,000  was within its limits  of transfer,  the 
payment would not have raised  concerns. 
Ive taken into account everything that Lloyds has said but Im persuaded Lloyds should  
have done more here and ought  fairly and reasonably to have contacted Q about the 
payment and asked  questions  to challenge  its purpose before the payment  was executed.
While I acknowledge what Lloyds has said about this being a business account with a large 
balance and, that the payment of £50,000 was within its limits of transfer and therefore didnt 
raise concern, Im persuaded the payment was out of character and unusual  for Q. I say this 
because from looking at Qs business account  statements  between  April 2017 and May 2018  
I can see that while Q made two large payments from the account  one for £20,000  and 
one for £30,000  - these were both sent to an existing payee   an account  linked to Q. All 
other outgoing payments from the account  were significantly lower in value. The £50,000 
payment was more  than twice that of the £20,000  payment and over 60% more than the 
£30,000 payment,  and it went to a new payee.  
Ref: DRN70572613Im satisfied £50,000 was a significant  amount of money for Q to spend despite  the account  
balance being  as large as it was, and Im also mindful that Q has said its annual  turnover  is 
around this amount which demonstrates the significance of the size of the payment. 
So overall, Im persuaded the scam payment was unusual and uncharacteristic enough for 
the account for Lloyds to have made enquiries  about  it before processing it. And while I 
accept this was a business  account  that carried  a large balance, I dont think  this means 
Lloyds ought not to intervene on unusual and out of character payments from accounts  with 
these features  small businesses arent  immune to falling victim to scams  - in particular 
invoice/email intercept  scams, the type of scam Q fell victim to. So Im not persuaded by the 
reasons Lloyds has given as to why it didnt make  enquiries about this particular  payment  
before processing  it. 
Had Lloyds got in touch with Q, as I think it ought to have done, I would have expected it to 
ask Q some questions about  the payment it had requested. As a starting point it shouldve 
asked Q what the payment was for. Had it done  so I have no reason to doubt that Q wouldnt 
have explained  that it was being sent to their solicitor for a property purchase. Im satisfied  
email intercept/conveyancing scams  were  well-known to banks at the time Q requested the 
payment, and so, Im persuaded Lloyds ought  fairly  and reasonably to have asked some 
follow up questions to ensure Q wasnt at risk of falling victim to this sort of scam. 
For example, it couldve asked whether Q had paid the solicitor before, whether the account 
details had changed and how the new payment  details had been communicated to them. Ive 
no reason to doubt Q wouldve answered  these questions honestly as well  after all Q 
hadnt been coached by the scammer as to what to say; at this point Im satisfied they 
genuinely believed  they were communicating  with their solicitor.  
In response to the answers I think Q would more  likely than not have provided, Lloyds could 
have provided  information  to Q about email intercept scams,  bringing to life what this looked  
like in practice. It ought fairly and reasonably to have encouraged  Q to contact the solicitor  
by phone to clarify whether it had asked  for the payment to be sent to a different  account. 
Had this happened  here, Im persuaded the scam would  more  likely than not have been 
prevented. This is because Im satisfied Q wouldve called its solicitor to double check  
particularly as so much money  and a property purchase was at stake. Q would quickly have 
realised a scammer was attempting to defraud it. As a result,  Im persuaded the fraud  would 
have failed; and Q would  not have  lost £40,531.08.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if Lloyds had taken things further and 
asked probing  questions are reinforced by what happened when Q got in touch with the 
solicitor the day after the payment had been made.  On speaking  with the solicitor, it quickly  
unravelled that Q had sent the payment  to a scammer  but by then, the majority of the 
funds had already  left the account and had been  removed by the scammers. 
Finally, Ive considered  the points Lloyds has made as to why Qs actions or omissions 
means it shouldnt be held responsible for the loss. 
Lloyds has said Q didnt  take up the opportunities Lloyds offered to educate itself about 
fraud. Ive thought  carefully about  this, and while Q may not have taken up the opportunities 
offered to it, a customer doesnt have an obligation to go to such events set up by banks. 
And in any event, not accepting such invitations  doesnt remove Lloyds responsibility to help 
protect Q from financial harm. 
Ref: DRN70572614Lloyds says Q missed an opportunity to check the solicitors account details were correct  
given the solicitors provided a disclaimer at the bottom of their emails. The disclaimer Lloyds 
is referring to says we will never change our client bank account details.  If you receive any 
communication advising you that we have changed our bank account please  contact  us to 
verify before transferring  any money  to us 
I accept a disclaimer was present  on the solicitors emails so I have  thought about whether Q 
should bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence. Mr Q, on behalf of Q, has 
said that he vaguely recalls noticing  something was written  beneath  the solicitors email  
signature but that he didnt read what it said. Hes said that the disclaimer was written in 
small type and not given  any prominence  such as a bold red type which  wouldve alerted 
him to the significance  of what was written. 
Mr Q says that it wasnt until after hed reported  the scam to the solicitor  that he properly 
read the disclaimer  and this was because the solicitor told him to. He provided feedback to 
the solicitor about  the lack of prominence  of the disclaimer and has told us that the solicitor 
has since taken the feedback on board. 
Mr Q has also added  that while, with the benefit  of hindsight, there were some  peculiarities 
in the emails from the scammer  such  as, changes in the language and grammar used 
within the emails and that the emails started to solely be sent from an I-phone  (although Q 
has also commented that the solicitor  has said they did sometimes send emails from an I-
phone), he didnt  think  these  were so odd that he doubted he was communicating with his 
genuine solicitor.  The scam happened fast over a few days  with lots of emails  with the 
solicitor. Mr Q says he knew  the solicitor and ultimately didnt suspect anything at the time, 
telling us the details on the attachment which provided the new account details had the 
solicitors logo and looked authentic. 
Having thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded that the oddities within the emails  
were so odd that it ought to have raised  flags that Q was at risk of a scam. The emails 
appeared to come from the same  email address as Qs solicitor, so I consider it reasonable 
Q was convinced it was liaising with its solicitor. Even if I consider that Q did miss an 
opportunity to check the details were genuine with the solicitor,  Im satisfied this is because 
Q, at the time, was under  the spell that it was liaising with its solicitor and Im satisfied that 
sadly the disclaimer at the bottom  of the emails simply hadnt registered  with him at that 
point, for the reasons set out above. So, on balance,  I am satisfied there  was no contributory  
negligence on this occasion, Q was simply the unwitting victim of a clever fraudster. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied Lloyds should fairly and reasonably reimburse Q for the 
loss its suffered once  the recovered  funds  of £9,468.92 are deducted together with interest  
at the rate of 8% simple  a year to compensate  it for being deprived of the money it lost from 
the date of the loss to the date of settlement.   
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about Lloyds Bank  PLC  and I therefore  require  the bank to:
Pay Q £40,531.08 within 28 days of receiving notification of its acceptance  of my final 
decision; plus
Pay simple interest  on that sum at the rate of 8% simple  a year, from the date of loss 
to the date of refund1. 
Ref: DRN70572615Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
1 If Lloyds is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should  send Q deduction certificate so it 
can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7057261