K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the advice he received from Kingswood Financial Advisors  to transfer 
his existing private pension into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). The reason for 
making the transfer was to allow Mr W to invest in a property in an overseas resort  being 
developed by Harlequin Property (SVG) Limited. 
Mr Ws complaint  is made, on his behalf, by Hugh James Solicitors.  
background
Mr W had a private pension plan. In 2009 he was told by an unregulated  financial services 
provider about  an opportunity to invest in the development being  built by Harlequin.  Mr W 
was put in touch with Kingswood. 
In early 2010 Kingswood carried out a review of Mr Ws circumstances. It noted that Mr W 
wanted to buy a commercial investment property but stated  that it hadnt given him any 
advice about using his pension fund for this. Kingswood also noted  that Mr W wanted to 
achieve a much better return than he could get from a bank  or building society. It recorded 
that Mr W would accept  the risk of a small loss to his money. 
Kingswood recommended  that Mr W transfer his pension plan into a SIPP. This would allow 
him to then invest his pension funds in Harlequin. A SIPP application was made to a 
provider. Mr Ws pension plan of around £11,000 was transferred to this SIPP. Shortly  
afterwards, in March  2010, part of his pension was invested in Harlequin. 
Then in July 2010, Kingswood told Mr W that the SIPP provider wouldnt allow his SIPP  to 
be used to invest in Harlequin. So Kingswood recommended placing his investment in 
another SIPP with a different provider.  This new SIPP was set up the following month and 
Mr Ws investment  funds,  including  the investment in Harlequin, were then transferred to it. 
But, the overseas  resort  development  ran into problems. Harlequin  entered  administration  
with Mr W losing his investment. He complained to Kingswood via Hugh James,  and in turn 
the complaint  was brought  to our service.  
Kingswood didnt think this was a complaint we could look at as it had been made too late. I 
explained why I thought  it had been made within the time limits set out in the rules our 
service has to follow. I decided we could look at the merits of Mr Ws complaint. Kingswood  
didnt make any further submissions. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the merits of Mr Ws complaint. He asked Kingswood for 
information several times. But apart  from its initial arguments about the complaint being  
made too late, Kingswood  didnt  provide  any evidence, or make any arguments to refute the 
merits of the complaint. 
So the adjudicator had to issue  his view of the complaint  based  only on the evidence  given 
to us by Hugh James. He thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator  said 
Mr W had been introduced to the Harlequin  investment  by an unregulated business.  But as 
this business wasnt able to arrange  the necessary transfer, he was referred to Kingswood. 
The adjudicator said it was clear that Kingswood gave  the advice to set up the SIPP knowing 
that Mr W was planning  to invest in Harlequin.  
Ref: DRN79311692The adjudicator went on to say it wouldnt normally be appropriate to recommend a SIPP  for 
such a modest amount  as £11,000. With a small fund like this, there  was little opportunity for 
Mr W to take advantage of the wider range of options a SIPP offered compared to a 
standard pension  plan.  Also, the transfer cost of around £640 reduced the value of the 
pension by a disproportionate amount. 
Although Mr W was already planning to invest in Harlequin before he was introduced  to 
Kingswood, it knew the unregulated business couldnt  provide any advice. Kingswood, as 
the regulated  advice  firm, needed to act in Mr Ws best interests.  So it needed to look at the 
transfer advice  taking account of what the planned investment was. Kingswood  didnt seem 
to have done this. 
The adjudicator pointed out that the Financial  Conduct Authority and its predecessor, the 
Financial Services Authority, expected a regulated firm like Kingswood  to look at the 
suitability of the underlying investment when assessing the suitability of the advice  to Mr W 
to transfer his pension plan to a SIPP. 
The Harlequin investment was a high risk, unregulated, highly speculative overseas property 
development that was only suitable for a small amount  of an experienced investors overall 
portfolio. The advice to transfer  Mr Ws pension wasnt suitable. It put his pension  at greater 
risk than was appropriate for his circumstances. Mr W was a normal retail investor who didnt 
have the capacity to withstand significant  losses that might arise from investing  in Harlequin. 
The adjudicator then gave Kingswood the chance  to respond before he set out how the 
complaint should  be resolved. Although we asked Kingswood  several times for its response, 
it again didnt  give us any information. Finally,  Kingswood said it had nothing  to add and 
asked the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. We told Kingswood  this would be 
done. We also set out what  we thought Kingswood should do to compensate Mr W, which  is 
set out below. 
Again, Kingswood didnt provide a response. Hugh James, on behalf  of Mr W, did respond. 
In summary,  it said our proposed redress was based on information provided by Kingswood  
that Mr W was willing  to accept some risk to his pension fund. But Mr W has said his attitude  
to risk was low. So the benchmark weve suggested to calculate redress wasnt  appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering whats  fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account  relevant laws and regulations;  regulators rules,  
guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at 
the time.  
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Kingswood  needs to compensate  
Mr W. Ill now explain why, and provide further details on the redress. 
My starting point is to look at what Kingswood  needed to do. It was required to comply  with 
the regulations.  That included knowing its client and giving suitable advice. Kingswood  also 
needed to act in Mr Ws best interest.  Im satisfied Kingswood cant  avoid these obligations 
by limiting its role to only advising on the SIPP.  
Ref: DRN79311693Kingswood has supplied no information  to us at all. But I can see its suitability letter to Mr W 
stated that the advice  it provided only covered the suitability of the SIPP.  The letter  
confirmed that Kingswood  hadnt  given Mr W any advice on the suitability of using  his 
pension to buy a commercial investment property. But, as above, Kingswood did need  to 
give him suitable advice. It needed  to look at the suitability  of the planned  investment.
The Harlequin investment exposed Mr Ws pension funds to significant risk. It was an 
overseas property development. The way the investment was meant to work wasnt totally 
clear. It seems  that Mr W would get a proportion of the rental income from a hotel room he 
was investing  in. But the income depended  on the success of the development. Im satisfied 
this should have been clear to Kingswood when it wrote is suitability letter to Mr W in 
January 2010.  
Mr W was investing his private pension plan. It was being used to buy part of a hotel room in 
a property that hadnt been built. Part of the cost was being met by Mr Ws pension.  That 
part would be owned by Mr Ws SIPP. It seems  the remaining  balance  would have to be paid 
for at some stage in the future using other assets or by borrowing .
I can see that at the time Mr W, and his then wife, owned other properties, one of these was 
abroad and used for family holidays.  The other  was a rental  property. But I dont think  
ownership of these gave him the knowledge or experience to invest  in Harlequin. 
Im satisfied the recommendation to transfer  to the SIPP was unsuitable.  It was transferring 
all of Mr Ws private pension plan. The investment was too risky for Mr W given his low 
attitude to risk. I think Kingswood should have  advised against transferring his pension to the 
SIPP. It should also have  advised him not to invest  in Harlequin. This should have all been  
done before  the SIPP application  was made. The preliminary Harlequin contract was signed 
by Mr W in February 2010. The SIPP application and advice from Kingswood  to transfer  the 
pension to the SIPP took place before  this. 
I think its also relevant that the advice was initially to set up a SIPP with one provider. But a 
different provider had to be found. That should have  given  Kingswood  reason to question 
why the first SIPP provider wouldnt accept the Harlequin investment. 
Kingswood should have  advised Mr W that investing  in Harlequin was high risk. He could 
lose all the pension funds  he was transferring. In its complaint letter to Kingswood, Hugh 
James states Mr W was seeking a better return on his pension  fund than what he could 
expect from a bank  or building society,  but he was only prepared to accept the risk of a small 
loss to his money.  
Also, as our adjudicator  also pointed out, Im satisfied that it wouldnt normally be 
appropriate to recommend  a SIPP for such a modest amount as £11,000. With a pension  pot 
of this size, there wouldnt be much  chance for Mr W to benefit from the wider range of 
investment options  available through  a SIPP when compared to a standard  pension  plan. 
And the transfer  cost of around £640  significantly reduced that pot even further. 
As a result of all the above,  Im satisfied Kingswood should have recommended  an 
investment that was in line with Mr Ws stated aims.  On balance,  I think he would  have taken 
notice of this as Kingswood was a firm regulated to give financial advice. If suitable  advice 
had been given, I think Mr W wouldnt have  invested in Harlequin.  
Ref: DRN79311694Ive also thought about the role of other  parties  in the transactions. The role of the other 
financial services provider  is important.  Anything he said could have  influenced Mr W to 
make the Harlequin  investment. But Mr W cant refer a complaint  to us about that, as that 
business was unregulated. 
I understand that the other financial services provider had two businesses with similar 
names. One was an appointed representative  of a network of regulated advisers.  But I know 
that network wouldnt allow its representatives to give advice on unregulated investments. 
The other business was a Harlequin  agent. I think  its likely this business was dealing  with 
Mr W as an agent of Harlequin, although I do accept  that the introduction  was made  
because of the contact using the firm, Kingswood, that was regulated to give advice. One of 
the aims  of regulation was to provide protection to consumers such  as Mr W. The advice 
Kingswood was providing to Mr W was a regulated activity.  
Ive found that the advice to start the SIPP  was unsuitable. It follows  that Mr Ws loss is the 
responsibility of Kingswood. I think his loss flowed from the unsuitable advice. Im not 
satisfied suitable  advice could have been given without looking at the transaction  as a whole. 
If suitable advice  had been  given,  the Harlequin investment wouldnt have happened. 
I know it would be difficult for Kingswood to reclaim any of the loss from the other business. 
But I think Mr W should be fully compensated for his loss. His loss wouldnt have happened 
without a regulated  firm being involved. If Kingswood wants to take an assignment of any 
rights of action against any third parties  from Mr W, I think this would be reasonable. Mr W 
should co-operate  with Kingswood if it tries to recover  the loss. 
I also know that a party  involved  with Harlequin  has been charged with fraud  offences.  A 
court might therefore  conclude that Mr Ws loss wasnt a direct result of Kingswoods  
unsuitable advice.  On this basis, a court might  not require Kingswood  to compensate  Mr W, 
despite the clearly  unsuitable advice. 
But when looking at fair compensation, Im not limited to the position a court  might  take.  It 
may be there has been a break in the chain of causation. That might  mean  it wouldnt be 
fair to say the entire  loss was due to the unsuitable advice. That depends on the individual 
circumstances of the case.  
No liability will arise for an adviser  who has given suitable advice, even  if fraud later takes 
place. But the position is different where the consumer wouldnt have been in the investment 
in the first place without  the unsuitable advice. In that situation, it may be fair to assess 
compensation on our usual basis  that is, to put Mr W in the position he would  have been  in 
had the advice been suitable. 
In the individual circumstances of this case, Im satisfied  its fair and reasonable to make an 
award. This is despite any possible arguments about a break  in the chain of causation  and 
the distance of the loss from the (unsuitable) advice given. Im also satisfied Mr W wouldnt 
have invested  in Harlequin if it wasnt for Kingswoods failings. If Kingswood had given Mr W 
suitable advice,  there  wouldnt be a Harlequin investment. Im satisfied the advice  given by 
Kingswood took no account whatsoever  of Mr Ws interests. This led directly  to him using his 
pension fund to invest in a specialised, unregulated investment with a limited  track record.  
So I think its fair and reasonable to hold Kingswood responsible for the full loss suffered by 
Mr W. Im not asking  Kingswood to account for any loss that goes further  than the 
Ref: DRN79311695consequences of its failings. I think those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in 
question. That other parties might also be responsible for that same  loss is a separate 
matter, one which Im unable to determine.  But this point shouldnt  affect Mr Ws right to 
compensation from Kingswood for the whole amount  of his loss. 
I can see that Hugh  James questioned the suitability of the redress outlined  by one of our 
adjudicators. This was because the proposed redress was based information provided  by 
Kingswood  that Mr W was willing to accept some risk to his pension fund. 
Ive looked at the complaint letter Hugh James  sent to both Kingswood  and our service.  In it, 
Hugh James states Mr W was only prepared to accept the risk of a small loss to his money. I 
can confirm Ive taken  this into account.  Im satisfied the redress suggested by the 
adjudicator, and fully detailed  below,  is consistent  with this position. Ive not just relied on 
information from Kingswood. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr W, as far as possible,  into the position he would  probably  now be in if he 
had been given suitable advice. I think Mr W would have invested differently. Its not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done  differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ws circumstances and objectives when he 
invested. 
what should  Kingswood do?
In summary:
Kingswood needs  to calculate and pay any loss Mr W has suffered by comparing the 
performance of Mr Ws SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If possible, Kingswood  should pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ws share in the 
Harlequin investment.  
It should also pay five years worth of future  fees owed by Mr W to the SIPP  if the 
Harlequin investment  cant be purchased. 
Kingswood should  pay Mr W £500 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.  
Ive explained  in more detail below  what Kingswood  must do to fairly compensate Mr W. 
Kingswood must compare  the performance  of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation 
is payable. 
Kingswood should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Kingswood should  pay into Mr Ws pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  
Ref: DRN79311696Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Kingswood is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ws pension  plan,  it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. The notional  allowance should  be 
calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected  marginal  rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kingswood  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Kingswood should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. This should 
take account of any outstanding charges. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. The SIPP only exists  because of 
the investment  in Harlequin. In order for the SIPP  to be closed and further SIPP fees to be 
prevented, the Harlequin investment needs to be removed from it. So Kingswood should 
take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. 
I understand Kingswood could purchase  the Harlequin investment. But I also understand 
that Harlequin might not allow this at the moment. The valuation  of the Harlequin investment 
might prove difficult as theres  no market for it. To calculate compensation, Kingswood 
should agree  an amount with the SIPP provider as a commercial  value,  and then pay the 
sum agreed,  plus any costs, and take ownership of the investment. This amount should  be 
deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Kingswood is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to 
Ref: DRN79311697be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Kingswood may require that Mr W provides an 
undertaking to pay Kingswood any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Kingswood  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing  up the 
undertaking. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Kingswood  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Kingswood totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ill now turn to the SIPP fees. As above, the SIPP only exists due to the investment in 
Harlequin. If Kingswood  had given suitable advice to Mr W, the SIPP wouldnt have been set 
up. If Kingswood cant purchase the Harlequin investment, the SIPP  cant  be closed. If thats 
the case, Im satisfied  it isnt fair that Mr W continues to pay the annual SIPP fees.  
To provide certainty to all concerned, I think its fair that Kingswood pays Mr W an upfront 
lump sum equal to five years worth  of SIPP fees ( based on the previous years  fees).  This 
should provide  a reasonable  period  for the parties  to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. 
There are different ways  they may want to seek to achieve that, It will also provide Mr W with 
some confidence that he wont have to pay further  fees. 
I think awarding a lump sum equal to five years fees achieves a fair balance. It might be 
possible for the Harlequin investment to be removed from the SIPP  sooner than five years.  
But given the time its taken so far, its also possible that it could take a number of years  
more to sort out all of the issues. Im satisfied using a figure of five years worth of fees is a 
reasonable estimate, and fair award  to resolve  the issue now. 
Finally, Kingswood should pay to Mr W £500  for the trouble and upset caused  by the 
disruption to his retirement  planning.  Mr W has been  caused  a great deal of upset by the 
loss of his investment. I think  a payment of £500  is appropriate  compensation for that upset. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation for the following reasons. Mr W wanted  capital 
growth with a small risk to his capital. The average  rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a 
fair measure  for someone who wanted  to achieve a reasonable return  without risk to his 
Ref: DRN79311698capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Im satisfied that Mr Ws risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr W into that position. It doesnt  mean that Mr W would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr W could 
have obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude.  
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Kingswood Financial Advisors should  pay 
the redress as set out above. Kingswood Financial Advisors should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7931169