K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS),  trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr P bought a PPI policy when he took out a Halifax mortgage  in 2002. The policy  was sold 
in a meeting at a Halifax branch. It was part of a wider insurance package  called a 
Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP). The PPI element of this package gave Mr P cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld. Mr P disagreed, so the case 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
The sale took place  a long time ago. And, perhaps understandably,  BoS doesnt still have 
much of the paperwork completed  at the time. But its provided a copy of a declaration which  
Mr P signed  when he took out his mortgage.  This includes a section which refers to the 
TMPP in terms  which  would seem  to suggest  that he could have taken out a mortgage 
without buying  this policy. 
BoS has also provided screenshots from its computer systems  which record the answers 
that Mr P gave to questions he was asked at the time about  his personal circumstances. 
These were  to check his eligibility and suitability for the TMPP. And Ive previously seen  
copies of the paperwork BoS used  at around  the time of this sale and know  that its normal 
sales process would have been  to discuss PPI cover with a customer  and to then obtain 
their consent  to the policy being set up for them.
So on the basis of the limited information available, I think  its more likely than not that Mr P 
was aware at the time that the PPI was optional and that he actively decided to take out this 
cover. But I can understand why he might not be able to recall  this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr P. And from what  Ive seen,  I think  thats most likely 
to have been the case. This means that it had to ensure that the policy was suitable  for him. 
I dont know all the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say this because:
Mr P appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
limitations and exclusions.
Mr P says he didnt need the cover provided by the policy.  He says he was eligible for 
very generous  sick pay and redundancy terms from his employer.  And he also says he 
had some savings and could have relied  on his partner to help pay his mortgage  
Ref: DRN70879142repayments if he couldnt work. But this policy would have  paid out in addition  to any 
other means  he had available at the time. It could have covered his repayments for up to 
twenty four months if he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment,  where  ones home is 
potentially at risk if repayments cant be made. So I still think that Mr P would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable.  And as the premium  was paid monthly, 
he could have cancelled  the policy if it no longer met his needs. 
BoS also needed to give Mr P enough  information for him to decide whether or not to take 
out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information he received could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for him, I dont think better information  would have changed his mind about buying  it. I think  
hed still have thought the policy  gave him useful  protection at an affordable price.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr P has lost out by anything  that BoS may have 
done wrong when it sold him this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7087914