K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  give them enough  time to give 
their instructions following a corporate action on one of their investments. The complaint is 
brought by Mr S on both of their behalves.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  Smart Investor accounts  with Barclays. They each had a holding of 
West Bromwich  Building Society  Permanent  Interest Bearing shares (PIBS).  
On 8 March 2018 West Bromwich announced an offer of £52 for every  100 shares.  Barclays 
wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 29 March to tell them about the offer and to ask for their 
instructions by 4 April.  Mr and Mrs S were on holiday  and missed  the deadline, meaning 
Barclays took no action  on their behalf.
Mr S complained, saying  he shouldve  been  told in enough time for him to accept the offer.
Barclays apologised for not telling Mr and Mrs S sooner, and offered to pay them £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr S didnt accept Barclays offer and brought his complaint  to us. He wants Barclays to buy 
back his and his wifes  shares at the offer price.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
Barclays shouldve allowed Mr and Mrs S a reasonable  time for them to receive and respond 
to its letter.  He thought the PIBS should  be assigned to Barclays and Barclays should pay 
Mr and Mrs S what they wouldve received if theyd been able to respond to the offer, plus 
interest. He also thought  Barclays  should pay £250 for the stress caused.
Barclays didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
It cant  say when  it received notification of the offer from its custodian. But there  does 
appear to have been  a problem with the information being  uploaded on the electronic 
trading system.
But itd still given Mr and Mrs S enough  time  other investors  had managed to respond  
by the deadline.
Corporate actions  are dealt with on a best  endeavours  basis and there was no 
obligation in its terms and conditions for it to tell Mr and Mrs S about the offer.
Mr S says he had been looking for an opportunity for some time to sell the PIBS.  So he 
shouldve reasonably monitored the news for announcements. He couldve also chosen 
to receive updates electronically,  especially if he knew he was going on holiday.
Ref: DRN72447782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S hold Smart Investor accounts  which are execution  only accounts. This means  
there was no obligation  on Barclays to give them advice  including advice  about  corporate 
actions. 
The terms and conditions  of the service dont  oblige Barclays to tell account  holders about 
corporate actions.  The terms  say, we will not be obliged to notify you or obtain  your 
instructions in relation to these matters. 
But my role is to consider  all of the evidence, not just the terms and conditions, to decide  
whether Mr and Mrs S have been  treated fairly  and reasonably. 
When Smart Investor was launched,  Barclays told consumers,
Well also notify you of all corporate  actions by email or text if you choose to go paperless. If 
you havent opted in for paperless, well write to you when a response  is required on a 
corporate action  (voluntary).
So, although  theres no contractual obligation to do so, it seems Barclays does send out 
notifications to those  consumers who choose  to receive notifications  electronically. And it 
acts on a best endeavours  basis  for consumers who havent opted in for paperless 
communications.
Mr and Mrs S hadnt opted in for paperless  communications. But, based on what  theyd been 
told when the service migrated, I think it was reasonable for them to expect to receive  written  
notice of any corporate actions.
West Bromwich  announced its offer on 8 March 2018. Barclays cant  tell us when it received 
notification of the offer but said it would  usually be around a week  after the announcement. 
Its usual procedure is then to write to consumers, by second  class post, within  48 hours.  So, 
in this case, it shouldve been in a position to write a letter to Mr and Mrs S on or around 
19 March. Allowing for second class post,  this wouldve given Mr and Mrs S around 14 days  
to consider and give their instructions to Barclays by its deadline  of 4 April.
But Barclays  didnt write to Mr and Mrs S until 29 March 2018. In its response to Mr Ss 
complaint, it accepted there was a delay. It said, I would like to apologise that you were not 
made aware  of this Tender Offer sooner  by Barclays.
So, taking everything  into account, I think Barclays shouldve written to Mr and Mrs S sooner 
than it did. Had it done so, Mr and Mrs S wouldve received the letter  before they went  away 
on 3 April for a few days and wouldve been  able to give their instructions. 
Im persuaded by what Mr S has told us - that, if theyd been  able to meet  the deadline, he 
and Mrs S wouldve  given  instructions to accept West Bromwichs offer  and they wouldve 
received £52 for every 100 shares they held.
Ref: DRN72447783Ive taken into account that, had Mr and Mrs S not been on holiday,  they may well have 
received Barclays letter  on 3 April. I dont require  Barclays to make any allowances  for 
consumer holidays when  it sends  its notifications.  It wouldnt  have known Mr and Mrs S were  
away and it shouldnt have to compensate them simply because  they chose to take a holiday 
around the time of the deadline. But Ive set out above why I think  Barclays  should fairly 
have sent a letter before it did. And if it had acted fairly, Mr and Mrs S wouldve received that 
letter and been able to give their instructions.
Ive also taken into account what Mr and Mrs S should reasonably  have done, bearing  in 
mind Barclays comments  about  them taking steps to check  the news  and to change  their 
communication preference to paperless.  After all, they held the investment in an execution  
only account and it was up to them to monitor them so that they could make their own 
investment decisions.  But I also think it was fair for Mr and Mrs S to rely on Barclays to notify 
them  in good time  of any corporate  actions. And they were only away  for a few days so I 
dont think theyd have  seen any reason to change their communication  instructions.
Overall, I find Barclays didnt notify Mr and Mrs S about the corporate  action  when it 
shouldve done,  so it hasnt treated them fairly. I agree with our adjudicator that Barclays  
should put them in the position they would be in now, if theyd been able to accept the offer.
Barclays offered Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation for the distress caused.  Bearing in mind  
these investments were  a key part of their retirement planning and the impact  the stress  has 
had on his health, I think this is a fair amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
1. Sell Mr and Mrs Ss West Bromwich  Building  Society Permanent  Interest  Bearing  
shares and pay them what  they wouldve received if theyd been able to accept the 
offer of £52 per 100 shares.
2. Alternatively, Barclays may choose  to take ownership of the shares and pay Mr and 
Mrs S what they wouldve  received if theyd been  able to accept  the offer of £52 per 
100 shares.
3. Any income received on the shares  by Mr and Mrs S since the date of the offer can be 
deducted from the amount  Barclays pays them.
4. Pay Mr and Mrs S £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7244778