K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that his father  opened  an MBNA credit card account in his name,  but without his
knowledge or authority. Hes complained  that, when he found out what  had happened,
MBNA Limited wouldnt write off the debt on the account.
background
In April 2016 MBNA received an online application  for a credit card in Mr Ms name, along
with an application  for an interest-free balance transfer. The application was approved and,
later that month, a transfer of £1,800  was made  to an account in the name of Mr Ms mother;
at the same  time a direct debit was set up to pay the minimum balance due each month from
another account in Mr Ms mothers name. The minimum payment was made  in May 2016,
but the direct debit  was cancelled the following  month.
There was some further retail spending in May 2016, and the balance on the account
increased by the addition  of interest and charges.  In July 2016 MBNA restricted  the account
and wrote to Mr M to tell him it was doing  so. In August  and September  it sent a number of
further letters telling Mr M that the account  balance was over the credit  limit and that it was in
arrears.
In August  2016  Mr M applied for a £7,500 loan with a different bank. Hes explained that he
did so to help out his father, who had run into financial  difficulty. It appears that a large
proportion of that loan was used  to reduce the debt on another  credit card (again, not with
MBNA) in Mr Ms name.
At around the same time Mr M says he realised that his fathers debts included  that on the
MBNA credit card account. Towards the end of September 2016 his mother  contacted
MBNA to explain that the account  had been  opened  fraudulently and without Mr Ms
knowledge or consent. Mr M later confirmed what his mother  had said and told MBNA that
his father  had done the same thing  to his mother and his brother and that other banks had
written off the debts  that had arisen.
MBNA however didnt  agree to write  off the debt on the credit card account. It thought that
Mr M must have known about  the account  and suggested that the operation  of it indicated
that he or his mother probably benefited  from it. Mr Ms father  had been  given  a degree of
control over the family finances and MBNA  didnt  accept that Mr M had had no benefit from
the account. It also indicated that this was a matter for the family to resolve  amongst
themselves.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. She
didnt think there was enough  evidence  to show that Mr M had agreed to open the credit
card account. She said that MBNA shouldnt hold Mr M responsible for the debt but should
write it off and make appropriate adjustments to his credit file. MBNA  didnt agree, however,
and asked that an ombudsman review the investigators findings.
I did that and, because I reached  a different conclusion  from that reached  by the 
investigator, I issued  a provisional decision. I noted  that the primary reason for taking out the 
MBNA credit card had been to make  use of an interest-free balance  transfer  offer. That had 
been used to pay off debt on an account  in the name of Mr Ms mother; a direct  debit  had 
also been set up on his mothers current account to pay the MBNA  debt. 
Ref: DRN71419712I also noted that Mr M took out a loan a few months later to help his father repay  his debts. It 
appeared that those debts included those taken  out in his (Mr Ms) name. I thought it more 
likely than not that Mr M had known  about the loans and credit  cards his father  had taken 
out, either when they were taken out or soon afterwards. It was, however, some  months  
before he told MBNA about his concerns. In the circumstances, I didnt think it would be fair 
to require MBNA to write off the debt. 
Mr M didnt  agree. As well as repeating some of his earlier  arguments,  he invited us to look 
into the accounts that had been  opened in the names of other family members.            
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I note Mr Ms suggestion that this service consider more closely what happened to other  
members of his family. However, this service  was set up primarily to deal with individual 
complaints, not groups of connected complaints. So, whilst I understand Mr Ms point here, it 
would involve examining a number of loans taken out in different names  and involving 
different lenders. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  Im prepared  to accept that Mr M didnt initially 
know that MBNA had opened an account in his name. The information needed to open  it 
would have been known to his father, and his father would have been  in a position  to deal 
with any correspondence  relating to it  at least initially.  But the fact that the credit card 
account was used for a balance transfer from an account in his mothers name  and that a 
direct debit was set up from his mothers account  to make the monthly payments  makes  it 
more likely that he and his mother found out about it soon afterwards.
Its also significant in my view that in August  2016  Mr M took out a loan to help his father 
with his debts.  Those debts included a different credit card debt which  Mr M said his father 
had taken out in his (that is, Mr Ms) name.  I said in my provisional  decision that I found  it 
surprising that Mr M would have agreed to help his father without identifying  which  debts he 
was, in effect, agreeing to take on. I thought it likely too that, having found  out about  one 
credit card account Mr M didnt know  by that point about the MBNA debt. Once he knew 
about it, he should have told MBNA immediately that there was a problem. 
Mr M also said that his father  was away from about  July 2016. MBNA wrote  several  letters 
about the credit card account after that point. Mr M said he ignored them,  because  he didnt 
(he thought) have  any credit cards in his name  and so assumed they werent relevant. 
MBNA said,  however,  that its envelopes  were  plain. I accept  that. So Mr M would have had 
to open them to find out what  the letters were about. I think  therefore that Mr M must have 
known about the MBNA  credit card by no later than July 2016. It was, however, a further two 
months before he raised the matter with MBNA (initially, through  his mother), and in the 
meantime he took out a loan to help his father with his debts. In doing  so, he effectively  
indicated to MBNA that he was prepared to accept  the debt as his own  whatever  the 
circumstances in which the original application was made.   
The evidence here indicates to me that Mr M was prepared to help with the family finances 
and especially his fathers difficulties  but that things  changed  when his father  left without
paying off the liabilities that Mr M (and other family  members) had incurred. He has my
sympathy if indeed thats what  has happened. But in the circumstances I dont believe it
would be fair to require  MBNA to write of the debt.
Ref: DRN71419713my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require MBNA Limited to take any further 
steps to resolve  Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141971