K820x#14complaint
Mr I is unhappy American  Express Services Europe  Limited applied  a late payment fee to his 
credit card account.
background
Mr I says he was charged a late payment fee in September  2018 for not paying the minimum 
repayment on time. Mr I says the fee was unnecessary  as this was the first time hed made a 
late payment. So Mr I has asked for the fee to be refunded and an apology from American 
Express.
American Express said the late payment fee was applied  correctly and in line with the 
account terms and conditions. But they credited Mr Is account with the late payment fee 
amount as a gesture of goodwill. Mr I is unhappy  American Express credited his account  on 
a non-fault basis  and he wants  them  to uphold his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. He explained that American Express  had applied 
the late payment  fee correctly and so he didnt ask American Express to do anything more. 
Mr I didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He didnt think the 
adjudicators findings  were  fair or balanced,  so the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
American Express have sent me a copy of the accounts terms and conditions.  They  say a 
late payment fee of £12 will be charged if youre  late in paying the minimum  monthly 
payment (we wont charge if your minimum payment is £12 or less)
American Express have also sent me a copy of some of Mr Is credit card statements from 
2018. I can see the August 2018  statement provides a date in which Mr I needed to make  a 
minimum repayment by the following month.
Ive looked at Mr Is September 2018  credit  card statement. And I can see Mr I made a 
payment to his account two days later than the minimum repayment due date  which I note 
Mr I doesnt dispute.
I appreciate Mr I thinks this charge is unnecessary  and I can understand his frustrations as 
he says this was the first time hed made  a late payment, but I think it was fair for American 
Express to apply this fee. I say this because I think Mr I ought to have been aware of the 
date he needed  to make the minimum repayment by in September  2018, but failed to make  
it on time. And as Ive mentioned, the terms and conditions allow  for a late payment fee to be 
charged should the minimum monthly payment be made late. I can also see from looking  at 
the statement  the minimum payment that needed to be made on the account at that time 
was more than £12. Therefore, Im satisfied the charge was applied  in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account  and I dont think the charge was applied  unfairly.
Overall, I dont  think American Express have done anything  wrong.  And I think  the offer they 
made to refund the late payment fee amount  was fair. So I wont  be asking American 
Express to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN77417762American Express have confirmed that no late payment fee marker has been  applied to 
Mr Is credit file.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7741776