K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out with a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs C 
say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax at the time,  mis-sold them  the cover.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 April 2019, which  is attached and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Even though Mr and Mrs C 
arent happy with the outcome of my provisional  decision, neither party  responded with any 
new evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  an insurance policy taken  out with a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs C say 
Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS), Halifax  at the time, mis-sold them the cover.
background
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP). 
A TMPP  can be made up of three different  elements   a PPI policy, life cover and critical  illness 
cover. The individual  elements of the cover  can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. The 
Ref: DRN75555672TMPP policy Mr and Mrs C took out only included  life cover. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint.  
BoS disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt know  the policy  was added  to their mortgage and had they been asked 
they wouldve never  agreed to it. But the policy was taken out a long time ago  around 18 years ago 
 which is something I have  to keep in mind when  deciding what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed since the policy  was sold, not all the documents  
are available  for me to see. But I have seen  a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application form 
which shows they chose not to take out accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  I think  its likely 
that the accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover was discussed before they decided not to take it, 
and so I also think  its likely the life cover  was discussed in the meeting. And Mr and Mrs C ended up 
with only the life cover element of the TMPP package. This tailored selection  suggests  they had a 
choice about all the elements of the TMPP package and they made a choice to take out the life cover 
based on what they wanted  at the time.
So without stronger evidence  to the contrary and taking everything into account,  I think its more likely 
than not that BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt  have to take out the policy and that they 
chose to take out life cover only  although I can understand if they cant  remember this now.
Mr and Mrs C say BoS didnt recommend  the policy  to them. BoS says it did. As things stand, there 
isnt enough information  to determine this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial  to the outcome 
because, had BoS recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable recommendation  to 
have made  for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint on the same 
basis as BoS.
In a recommended sale BoS wouldve had to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. Ive 
considered Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  at the time and I agree  with the adjudicators  assessment 
that a decreasing term assurance policy  wouldve been better for them than the level term assurance 
policy they were sold. This is because the level term assurance  cover wouldnt go down in line with 
their mortgage. So, as the remaining  mortgage  reduced, the cover wouldve  remained the same  
which means they were paying for cover they didnt need.
The adjudicator felt that had this been  made  clear  to Mr and Mrs C, they wouldnt have taken out this 
cover. However, BoS says that at the time they didnt offer decreasing tem assurance policies as part 
of the TMPP package.  And it has also created a quotation to show what  a decreasing  term assurance 
policy wouldve costed, had they offered it at the time.  This quote came back  as more  expensive than 
the cover Mr and Mrs C were sold. So I dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out financially  as a result of 
being over insured. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  at the time Ive seen that they had three dependants  as well 
as other financial commitments. They also werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover and Ive not seen  that they had any other life cover  in place  to protect the full amount of this 
borrowing  so they seem  to have had a need for it. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs C about the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for them, I dont think  better  information  
about it wouldve put them off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN75555673my provisional  decision
So overall, I dont currently think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland 
plc may have done wrong.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 4 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7555567