K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2004. Ms N says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her PPI. 
background
The policy was taken  out at the same time as the credit card during  a meeting at a bank 
branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On her behalf, Ms Ns representative disagreed with these  findings,  and asked  that this 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Ms N didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Ms Ns 
comments that she does  not recall  PPI being  mentioned when she took out the credit 
card. However, I am mindful that the sale occurred a number of years ago, in my opinion 
making it more difficult to recall in detail.
The credit  card application form signed  by Ms N included a box which  needed to be 
selected if the applicant required PPI. This box had a cross placed in it, whilst I note that 
another optional  product that was available was not selected. I cannot be certain  what  
was discussed  between Ms N and the adviser during the meeting. However, based on 
the content of the application form, on balance my view is that PPI was presented as an 
optional extra to Ms N, and that Ms N agreed to take it out.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms N so it had to check that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
 Even taking into account  Ms Ns existing means to meet the card repayments if she 
wasnt working, I consider  that she would have found  the cover  useful.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  However Ms N chose to take PPI out - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. It also looks like it was affordable. On balance  I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Ms N off taking out the cover.  
 My conclusion  is that the policy was not mis-sold to Ms N.
Ref: DRN74450182Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Ns N paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Ms N back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont  
think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Ms N.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7445018