K820x#14complaint
Mr P1 complains that it was reckless and irresponsible for National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) to agree to a loan and an overdraft facility. Mr P1 is represented  in this 
complaint by his uncle,  Mr P2. 
background
Mr P1 had a current account with NatWest with an agreed overdraft of limit of £625.  In 
December 2017  he applied for a loan for £1,000  which was approved by NatWest  on 23 
December 2017.  On the same day Mr P1 received a letter  confirming a request for an 
overdraft of £850 had been  processed. 
In February 2018  Mr P1 started to receive  letters concerning  his accounts. On 23 February 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 visited the branch to discuss Mr P1s accounts.  At this meeting Mr P2 said 
settlement figures  were agreed  for the loan account  and overdraft. Both debts were cleared 
by Mr P1s grandparents. Mr P2 also said Mr P1s debit  card was destroyed. 
Mr P2 complained to NatWest on behalf  of Mr P1. He said it was reckless and irresponsible  
for NatWest to have  agreed the loan and overdraft for Mr P1. He said his nephew had 
stopped working  in March 2017  which meant no money of any significance was being  paid 
into his bank account. Mr P2 also explained  that Mr P1 was of no fixed address. 
In the complaint Mr P2 said that no one from NatWest had spoken  to Mr P1 at the time of the 
loan application  and overdraft, nor could  the bank have carried out appropriate credit  checks 
because Mr P1 did not have any credit history. Mr P2 believed  NatWest had failed in its duty 
of care to Mr P2 as it did not determine if Mr P1s income would be sufficient to cover  
reasonable living expenses and meet the financial commitments as they became due. He 
said NatWest didnt  ask for a reasonable level of financial information prior to the lending  
approval. Mr P2 queried what wouldve happened  had Mr P1s grandparents  not repaid his 
debts. 
NatWest did not uphold the complaint. It said both of Mr P1s credit applications were fully 
credit scored and assessed using information  provided by Mr P1 and said it judged the level 
of funds going through his account  to be sufficient to show  affordability of the loan and 
overdraft. Mr P2 still believed NatWest had been irresponsible, that the lending was 
unaffordable and that NatWest hadnt  at any time provided Mr P1 with an appropriate level of 
help. He brought the complaint to this service.  
Our investigator did not think NatWest had acted unfairly when lending to Mr P1 and found 
the checks of affordability were sufficient. Mr P2 remained dissatisfied.  He maintained the 
lending was unaffordable  from the outset.  He asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P1 and Mr P2 but, having  done so, I wont be asking NatWest  to do 
anything further.  
Ref: DRN71768382Mr P2 has said Mr P1 was unemployed at the time of his application for the loan and 
overdraft extension and had no money,  at least of any significance, being  paid into his 
account since he finished working  at the end of March 2017. He said deposits had virtually  
dried up in the six months prior to the loan application. 
Mr P1s salary  payments  were £969.51  per month until March. Between 18 April and 28 
December, when the loan deposited into the account, Mr P1s grandparents deposited over 
£10,900 into Mr P1s account in regular payments of between  £50 and £825.  This equates  to 
over £1,360 per month on average  and represents an increase in deposits to Mr P1s 
account since he stopped working.  
This calculation does not include  a one off deposit to the account  of £2,420.  Its not clear  on 
the statement  where this deposit has come from but it brings  the total amount deposited 
between April and December to over £13,320. I note also when Mr P1s salary stopped, 
payments from his grandparents  started  the next month  with no break. 
I fully accept Mr P1s grandparents deposits  into his account were out of generosity and not 
a salary but I dont  agree  that deposits  into the account had virtually dried up. They  had, in 
fact, increased. 
In addition NatWest  was entitled to rely on information provided by Mr P1, that he was 
employed at a salary  of £735, particularly as the information was supported  by very regular 
and frequent deposits into the account, and those deposits indicated  an increase in income  
with no break in payments. 
NatWest has said Mr P1 applied for the loan online. A lender has the responsibility to do 
appropriate and proportionate checks for affordability, but there  are no set checks.  NatWest  
has said that its system established  regular income  going through Mr P1s account, though it 
didnt identify the source of the income. It said it undertakes a risk based  approach  by using  
automated credit approval systems  as it cannot check  every  individual customers income  
source. It said it has a number of different business  rules and warning triggers in place to try 
to identify risks where customers  mis-state  income  or application  information  to prevent them 
from potentially being approved for unsustainable borrowing. It said this takes  into account a 
customers past and present  relationship.  
Its not my role to look at a banks processes, thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So I am unable to comment on the processes available to customers to apply for 
credit, or whether  or not it should be automatic for NatWest to establish  the source of 
income. But I can decide if the checks  were  proportionate and if it was irresponsible not to 
establish source of income for Mr P1. Payments were very frequent and regular with no 
gaps. Mr P1 stated he had no regular outgoings,  which was confirmed by the statements.  
On that basis, while  I accept the payments  were  coming from his grandparents it does seem  
reasonable that an automated credit  approval  system wouldnt pick up the change  to the 
source of income  as not being from paid employment. And I think it reasonable NatWest  
would determine  the borrowing was affordable. 
Mr P2 has also said Mr P1 was using  his overdraft and exceeded the agreed limit. I can see 
that this was the case occasionally but this in itself wouldnt be a barrier to further  lending.  
Mr P1 brought  the account within its limits by the deposits made to his account. As the 
investigator has said Mr P1 had an overdraft  already  on the account and was asking  for an 
increase of only £125 which is a modest additional  sum. 
Ref: DRN71768383In his complaint  to NatWest Mr P2 explained  twice that Mr P1 was a 20 year old male. He 
said NatWest could  not have carried out any credit checks on Mr P1 because he doesnt 
have any credit history, or one that Mr P2 could  find. 
Im not disputing that Mr P2 may not have  been able to find any credit  history for Mr P1 
through credit reference agencies. But that doesnt automatically mean Mr P1 didnt have a 
credit history.  By virtue  of the fact he had a bank account and an existing agreed overdraft 
facility Mr P1 did have a credit history and more particularly this was with NatWest  itself. So 
NatWest wouldve been able to use its own data plus any other credit information available  
to it to assess Mr P1s applications. And indeed it had already done so as it had rejected a 
loan application  for £3,000 in the previous month.  As Mr P1 was only 20 at the time I 
wouldnt necessarily expect him to have  a long credit history but I also wouldnt expect his 
age to be an automatic  barrier to borrowing as that would be discriminatory.
Mr P2 said Mr P1 was of no fixed address. Im not disputing  this was or still is the case but 
Ive seen no evidence  that NatWest was aware  of this. It has provided confirmation of the 
address it has held for Mr P1 since 2014  and it also said no mail had been returned from that 
address. 
Mr P2 has also said Mr P1 was in a financially unstable situation.  He is unemployed and had 
shown he was unable  to manage his account  because he went into unarranged  overdraft.  
Lenders must take action if they are aware or ought reasonably to be aware  that a customer  
is in financial difficulty.  Im satisfied Mr P1 didnt make NatWest  aware  of his financial 
situation. Prior to the application  of the loan and increase in overdraft Mr P1 had regular 
deposits into his account. Although he used his overdraft and occasionally  exceeded it the 
balance was always brought back within its limits.  Prior to January 2018  Mr P1 hadnt failed 
to make any payments.  So I think its reasonable that NatWest was unaware Mr P1 was in 
difficulty. 
Mr P2 has questioned  what  wouldve happened  had Mr P1s grandparents not helped  with 
the debt. Its very clear to me that Mr P2 and Mr P1s grandparents  have  been  generous  and 
compassionate with Mr P1 during this difficult period. They  were able to help him manage 
both the situation and his debt. And they have enabled Mr P1 to start afresh financially.  Had 
NatWest become aware of Mr P1s financial difficulty, I agree with Mr P2 that I would  expect 
it to review his credit  situation  and assist Mr P1 in putting in place a plan of action to help 
him. But Im not able to make a decision  on a hypothetical situation. From the letter  it sent in 
February Im satisfied NatWest had started  the process when Mr P1 missed his January loan 
payment. But by this point  Mr P2 had very quickly visited the branch with Mr P1 to help get 
control of the situation. 
Im satisfied that NatWest  hasnt done anything wrong so I wont be asking it to do anything  
further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN71768384Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176838