K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society  duplicated  a standing order hed set up which  caused 
his account to go overdrawn. 
background
In December last year Mr L set up a monthly standing order  to transfer money to an account  
he held with another bank. The following month  another standing order  was set up to 
transfer money to the same account on a different day. In June Mr L contacted Nationwide  to 
find out why a card transaction hed tried to make  had been declined. Nationwide  said this 
was because there were  insufficient funds in his account as a result of the standing  order 
payments being  made. 
Mr L said hed only set up one standing order and the second  one must  have  been  
duplicated by Nationwide. He thought it was responsible for his account going  overdrawn 
and the charges hed incurred as a result.
Nationwide said it hadnt duplicated the standing order. And it was Mr Ls responsibility to 
ensure he had sufficient  funds in his account  to ensure payments were made. It also said it 
had no record of him asking for the second  standing order to be cancelled  until he did so 
online on 20 June. 
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong but Mr L didnt agree. He 
said he hadnt set up the second standing order payment and hadnt given permission for his 
account to go overdrawn. So I need to reach  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr L doesnt recall setting up the standing order  payment. But Nationwide has 
provided system records which show two mandates were created. And if it had simply 
duplicated the original one, as Mr L suggests, Id expect all of the details to be the same.  But 
in fact the mandates have  different payment dates and the name of the payee  (Mr L) is set 
out in full on the second mandate whereas the first only uses his initials.  
I also note that both standing order payments are shown on Mr Ls statements from January 
onwards and he doesnt appear to have  queried  why two payments were  being made. 
Taking all of that into account  I think its most  likely both mandates  were set up by Mr L. 
Mr L says he didnt  give permission for his account to go overdrawn but I note the terms and 
conditions of his account say If your available balance is not enough to make a payment 
you ask us to make  well decide  whether or not to make the payment. Your payment 
instruction will be treated as a request  for an unarranged overdraft. 
They go on to say You can ask us not to make payments that would create an unarranged  
overdraft or increase an existing unarranged overdraft,  If you do this, well decline these 
payments and you may be charged  an unpaid transaction fee for each payment we decline
Ref: DRN72046452In this case Mr L doesnt appear  to have asked Nationwide  not to make  payments if they 
would create  an unarranged  overdraft.  And it therefore acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account in making  the standing order payment as it did. The terms also say 
that where a request for an unarranged overdraft is agreed then charges may be applied.  So 
while I appreciate  Mr L is unhappy with those  charges Nationwide  is entitled to apply them 
and I dont think thats happened  because  of anything it got wrong. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 21 March  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7204645