K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Paysafe Financial  Services Limited (trading as Neteller)  closed his
Neteller account and removed  funds  from it without his consent.
background
Mr G opened a Neteller account  with Paysafe in July 2017. A few days  later, the account
was credited with a number of payments totalling just over €4,000.
The day after those credits, Paysafe suspended  Mr Gs account. It had received notification
that the sending party had obtained the €4,000 fraudulently. It believed that the sender, who
was also a Paysafe  customer, had used stolen  funds  to credit their account and pay Mr G.
Mr G had attempted to withdraw this money to his bank account, but Paysafe had stopped
this. Instead of processing the withdrawal for Mr G, it reversed  the money hed received back
to the senders account for further  investigation. It also blocked Mr Gs account.
Mr G explained that he had legitimately sold Bitcoins. And wasnt aware that the money hed
received for them had been obtained fraudulently. As Paysafe had reversed the
transactions, he was now without his Bitcoins as well as the money hed sold them  for.
When Paysafe became  aware that Mr G had been using his account to process  payments
for bitcoin  sales, it also decided to close it. It said that using the account for currency and
Bitcoin exchange was against its Terms of Use.
Mr G raised a complaint.  He said hed sold his Bitcoins and received payment for them in
good faith. He wanted  Paysafe  to provide him with its reasons for closing his account  without
explanation, and a refund of the money.
Paysafe didnt agree it had done anything wrong.  It declined to refund Mr G, as the money
had been obtained by the sender fraudulently, and it said it had a right to return it to the
original source. It also said that as Mr G had breached its Terms of Use, by using his
account to process  the proceeds  of a Bitcoin  sale, it hadnt acted unfairly in closing it.
Mr G remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator  thought
Paysafe hadnt  acted  unfairly by blocking Mr Gs account and closing it in the way that it did.
But he thought  Paysafe  should refund Mr G the €4,000 proceeds of sale.  He was satisfied
Mr G had made genuine Bitcoin  trades,  and that he didnt know the purchaser had paid him
using stolen funds.  He felt that Mr G had been the victim of fraud,  and that it would be unfair
to deprive him of that money, when hed honestly  entered into the Bitcoin trade.
Paysafe didnt agree with our adjudicator.  In summary, it said it didnt think it should refund
fraudulent transactions to a customer who had acted against its Terms of Use. And, whilst
Mr G may have  received  the money in good faith,  it didnt agree  it had done  anything wrong
when acting within the provisions of those  Terms of Use. Paysafe asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
In advance of this final decision,  I sent the parties  a provisional decision in which I explained 
why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.  
Paysafe accepted my findings. Mr G didnt. He said, in summary, that at the time he opened 
his Neteller account,  there wasnt anything in Paysafes  Terms of Use about Bitcoin trades 
being a prohibited transaction.  If there  was, he says he wouldnt have used the account to 
Ref: DRN72826742accept payment for the sale of Bitcoins.  Mr G doesnt think  he should  lose out on the €4,000 
proceeds of sale, because Paysafe allowed his buyer to create an unverified  account that 
was then used  fraudulently.  So, he thinks Paysafe should cover his loss and return the funds 
to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I still 
dont think that his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below.
In my provisional decision,  I made  the following findings:
Ill start by saying that this is a very unfortunate case, where Mr G has been caught up in a
fraud in which  he took no part, other than to sell his Bitcoin to a third party who it turns out
had stolen the money to pay for it. So, I can completely  appreciate why Mr G thinks he
should be paid what he sees as his money.
When considering  a complaint of this type, I must start by looking to see whether Mr G was
an innocent party who, through no fault of his own, ended up losing out because  of anothers
fraud. Here I find that Mr G has lost out and that he was, more likely  than not, unaware of the
circumstances of the fraud.
The fraudster transferred stolen funds from their Neteller account  to Mr Gs. And in return
Mr G transferred them an equivalent value of Bitcoin.  So, on the face of it, the money in
Mr Gs account,  as far as he is concerned, is his. And he wasnt on notice that there was
anything illegal going  on.
Paysafe blocked  Mr Gs account following  notification that funds credited to it had been
obtained by fraud. This wasnt an unreasonable thing for Paysafe to have done. In effect  it
was preserving the proceeds of that fraud until it could  carry out an investigation into what
had happened. So, I dont  think that Paysafe acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt
carry out Mr Gs instruction to transfer  the funds  out of his account.
Financial service providers are subject to very stringent money laundering rules and are
required to have systems preventing their services  being used for financial crime. And where
theyre on notice of a potential fraud,  its not normally unreasonable for them  to preserve the
position until theyre able to investigate.
Once Paysafe  had investigated the circumstances, it concluded that the funds in Mr Gs
account had been obtained by the sender fraudulently. So, it transferred them  back to the
senders Neteller  account - which it had also frozen to enable it to refund the defrauded
parties. Paysafe  has said that its entitled to do this under its Terms of Use. And those in
force at the time provided:
6.12 Transactions  are final and are not reversible save in the following  circumstances  and at
our sole discretion:
6.12.1 where we confirm  there has been a Merchant error;
6.12.2 where there is illegal activity  involving  your Account; or
6.12.3 where you are in breach of these Terms of Use.
Ref: DRN72826743Mr G says that he wasnt involved in the fraud, so its not fair that he should lose out by not
only no longer  having  the Bitcoin, which hes transferred to the fraudster, but also the
proceeds of that sale.
In cases where a financial services provider  has carried out a unilateral  transfer  out of a
customers account, I need to take into account the requirements of the Payment Services
Regulations. Ordinarily, without the customers consent, Paysafes transfer out of Mr Gs
account would be unauthorised. Thats because he hasnt instructed the transfer or
consented to it. Here Mr G was of course  unaware  of it happening until after Paysafe  had
removed the money.  So, on the face of it, this transfer wasnt  one that he specifically
authorised.
But, importantly in this case, on opening his account, Mr G had accepted Paysafes Terms of
Use. He had also agreed to act in accordance with them in the way that he operated  his
account.
Within those terms, Paysafe set out a list of what it defined as a Prohibited Transaction.
That included using [Neteller] to facilitate the trade,  exchange, purchase or sale of Bitcoins,
or any other  virtual currency, between Members.
So, when agreeing to Paysafes terms, Mr G accepted that that he couldnt use the Neteller
account for the sale of Bitcoins, as it was a Prohibited Transaction.  Mr G has told us that he
was a frequent trader of Bitcoins. And in setting  up a Neteller  account,  he was doing  this to
increase the payment options available to his customers. But that was something that
Paysafe had, at the time, specifically provided  that its customers werent  allowed to do with a
Neteller account.
This put Mr G in breach of the Terms of Use. So, whilst I may not ordinarily consider it
reasonable for Paysafe  to unilaterally remove funds  from a customers  account in these
circumstances, here Mr G had been  using his account for a purpose  that Paysafe had
expressly provided that he couldnt.  This was something he had agreed to.
Its a finely balanced  decision  that Ive had to make in Mr Gs case, as he clearly wasnt
involved in the fraud,  but he did receive  the proceeds of that fraud into his account. And this
wouldnt have happened but for him using  his account in breach of Paysafes Terms of Use.
The provisions that Ive set out above, and clause  6.12.3 in particular, give Paysafe the
contractual right to remove  funds in these circumstances. But I still need to decide whether
its reliance on them  here was fair and reasonable. Here, the breach of the Terms of Use was
Mr Gs utilisation  of the account for a Prohibited Transaction. That was also something that
hed specifically set the account up to do, despite it being a type of transaction  that Neteller
accounts werent to be used for.
I appreciate that Mr G has said that other  Bitcoin traders were using Neteller accounts for
this purpose. But whilst that may be the case,  this was a type of trade  that Paysafe had
explicitly provided wasnt allowed under its terms. So, on balance,  I dont think it acted
unfairly in relying  on that term when it decided to remove the funds from Mr Gs account.
And in doing this, it was with a view to ultimately returning the funds to the parties from
whom they were originally  stolen.  That wasnt unreasonable here.
Mr G is of course the ultimate victim of this fraud.  And I was sorry to hear about  the trouble
that he then had funding this loss and the upset  that it caused  him. That cannot  have been
easy. But ultimately it was the fraudster, with whom  Mr G seems  to have conducted Bitcoin
Ref: DRN72826744trading, that was responsible for and caused this loss to Mr G. And in the circumstances of
this case, its not a loss that I think Paysafe has to reimburse.
Mr G was also upset that his account was closed shortly after this incident.  Im afraid that I
also dont think that Paysafe  acted unreasonably  when  it decided to close  his account.
Trading in Bitcoin was clearly something that Mr G opened the account for and intended to
do going forward. Given the high incidence of fraud  involving cryptocurrency, I cant say that
Paysafe acted unfairly by restricting the use of its Neteller accounts at the time for that
purpose.
I have, however, noted cryptocurrency  trading is something that Paysafe does now appear
to permit with its accounts.  But back in 2017, when this loss occurred, that wasnt something
that its customers were allowed to do. And thats the time with reference  to which I need to
make my decision.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr G asked that I reconsider. Id like to assure 
him that Ive thought very carefully about all of his comments  when reaching  my final 
decision. 
Mr G says that at the time he opened  his Neteller  account, he doesnt think that the Terms of 
Use referenced the sale or purchase  of Bitcoin  as a Prohibited  Transaction. He says he 
wouldnt have used  his account for the Bitcoin sale if they had. Neteller has provided  us with 
the version of those  Terms of Use that was in place in 2017 when Mr G opened his account. 
And the relevant terms are those  that Ive set out above. So, Im afraid  that using a Neteller 
account for the sale and purchase of Bitcoin was prohibited at the relevant time.
Mr G has told us that he took steps  to identify the purchaser of his Bitcoin.  And he couldnt 
have known they were  using  stolen  funds to make  the trade. He thinks  that as Paysafe 
allowed its service to be used for fraud by that Purchaser, it should accept responsibility.  I 
have some sympathy with Mr Gs arguments, but I dont think Paysafe knowingly allowed the 
Purchaser to commit fraud with their Neteller  account. And as Ive set out above,  if the 
Terms of Use had not prohibited the use of the account for the sale and purchase of Bitcoin, 
the outcome of this complaint may well have been very different. But on balance,  I still feel 
that because Mr G was using the account to facilitate a transaction that Paysafe had 
expressly prohibited,  it hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably here in the actions its taken.
I appreciate that this wasnt the outcome that Mr G was hoping for, but in all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  my provisional  findings  need to change. So, I adopt  them  in full 
in this final decision. And I wont be requiring  that Paysafe refund Mr G the money  that hes 
lost through the actions of this fraudulent  purchaser.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold Mr Gs complaint against Paysafe Financial Services  
Limited. I wont be requiring that it do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2021.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7282674