K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car hes financed through an agreement with Close  Brothers Limited 
(Close Brothers) is not of satisfactory  quality.  Hed like to be allowed to reject it.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019. I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mr B took receipt of a used vehicle in August 2017.  He financed the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The car had completed 75,000 miles at this 
point.
But Mr B had problems  with the gearbox  in his car. He told Close Brothers about it and they 
organised an independent inspection  in November 2017. 
The inspector confirmed that the problem with the gearbox, which wouldnt engage gears, 
wouldve been most likely to be present at the point of supply. He also said the seized inner 
mass in the dual mass flywheel would  have been  likely to be evident  at that time too.
Close Brothers organised  a repair to the gearbox but in January 2018  Mr B referred his 
complaint to this service  as he was having  problems getting Close  Brothers to agree  to 
further work.  
A further  inspection was suggested by our investigator. The inspector noted  that the first 
gearbox repair hadnt been  successful.  He also confirmed a turbo fault that Mr B had been 
complaining of and Close  Brothers sanctioned repairs to these faults.
But this didnt fix the issues for Mr B and in May a further independent  inspection  confirmed 
that there  was still a whine from the gearbox and also moderate  vibration possibly indicating 
a problem with the mass  flywheel.
Our investigator thought there was enough information to suggest the problem  with the 
gearbox had been  there  from the start. She therefore suggested that Close Brothers 
complete a further repair. But, following  that repair, Mr B says there  is still whining from the 
gearbox.
Close Brothers have said that without corroboration  of the fault they wont agree to repair it 
and our investigator thought that it was reasonable to ask Mr B to commission  a further 
report to confirm the issue existed.
But Mr B is reluctant to pay for a further  independent  inspection.  He says theres been plenty 
of evidence his vehicle was faulty at the point  of supply and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78573192I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint and Im expecting  to 
uphold it. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. The relevant 
legislation also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory  quality, we should consider 
whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. 
And here I think theres  evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply 
and also that it hasnt been  suitably  durable.
Mr B first reported  issues  with the gearbox  in late 2017. The independent inspector noted 
that there  was damage to the gears  and confirmed that in his opinion  the issue would have 
been apparent  when  Mr B took receipt of the car.
The relevant  legislation  gives Close Brothers one chance to repair the car and its clear the 
repair to the gearbox  was unsuccessful because the second inspector said:
the previous  gearbox  repairs  have not resolved the issue with the gearbox,  2nd and 4th 
gears and there was a significant gearbox whine.
At this point there  may well have been  enough  evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and as a subsequent gearbox repair hadnt worked Mr B should  
be allowed to reject the car.
But Close Brothers  didnt  approve this and Mr B accepted further  repairs. But in the third 
independent report  its clear these repairs havent resolved the problem because the 
independent inspector says so. He says:
we would confirm a whine  from the transmission
I accept that the engineer, on this occasion, was reluctant to suggest the transmission whine 
was most likely present  at the point of supply. He said further investigation  would be 
necessary. But the previous inspectors had both explained that the gearbox/transmission 
issues were most likely to be present at the point of supply and I think  this issue  was more 
likely to be related to previous problems than to have  come from a new concern.
And the most recent repairs dont  seem to have resolved  this problem either  as Mr B is still 
complaining of the same whining noise that, I think its reasonable to suggest, has been  an 
issue since September 2017. 
Ref: DRN78573193I dont think its fair to expect him to pay for a further inspection  and I dont think  he has to. 
His reporting of faults on his vehicle  has been consistently supported by the string of 
independent inspections Close Brothers  have  asked for. Hes been  waiting for a year and a 
half and I dont think its reasonable to ask him to wait any longer. If repairs  had been  
sanctioned a garage could easily have  identified that the problem  persisted.  But thats not 
been organised and I think, to be fair to Mr B, Close Brothers should now accept there  was a 
problem with the transmission on this vehicle  from the inception  of the finance agreement.
I note that the car wasnt new when Mr B took receipt of it and that hes managed to 
complete a reasonable mileage in it. Ive thought about whether this would mean the 
problems Mr B complains about would  be considered normal wear  and tear or couldve been  
expected in a vehicle  of this age and mileage  but I dont think a reasonable person would 
consider that to be the case. The gearbox is a critical  component and Mr B wouldve rightly 
expected to be able to drive without having  problems engaging gears and without excessive 
noise. I dont think hes been able to do that from the beginning as he complained about the 
issue very soon after taking receipt  and the experts reports  suggest that the transmission 
whine is still present. 
So I think Mr B should  be allowed  to reject his car because it was not of satisfactory quality 
when he took receipt  of it.
But even if Im wrong on this point  I also think Mr B should be allowed to reject the car 
because its not been durable.
There have been  problems with the turbo,  mass flywheel, clutch, a couple of sensors, the 
battery, the gearbox and potentially the final drive. Thats  not what a reasonable person 
would expect even  on a six year old vehicle with thats covered  85,000.
Mr B has been significantly inconvenienced  by this matter. I think  he could have been 
allowed to reject the vehicle more than a year ago and I think it was unrealistic to expect him 
to pay for a fourth inspection when thered already been so much  evidence presented by 
independent engineers and the symptom he complained  of could have been corroborated  by 
any garage. This has led to further,  unnecessary delays. So I think it would be reasonable 
for Close Brothers to pay him some compensation for the inconvenience hes experienced 
and in the circumstances I think £450  is reasonable.
Hes also had to regularly  put his car in for repairs and, whilst hes completed a reasonable 
mileage in the car, its been far from trouble free mileage. Hes had transmission whining 
throughout, turbo issues and vibration from the flywheel. So I think its fair to ask Close  
Brothers to also return three  of the instalments hes made towards his finance  agreement.
my provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Close Brothers  Limited to:
allow Mr B to reject his car and cancel the finance agreement  with nothing  further  to 
pay
collect Mr Bs car at no expense to him
refund  Mr Bs deposit of £1,500 and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
pay Mr B £450 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused
Ref: DRN78573194remove any adverse records that have been  made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue
refund  three instalments hes made towards his finance agreement  and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
my findings
Following on from that provisional  decision Mr B explained that hed had further  work done  to 
the cars  fuel pump at considerable cost so he didnt want  to reject the car as this would 
mean hed lose out on the investment hed made  in it and also mean  hed have to pay to 
transfer the personalised number plates.  Instead  he asked that I consider simply refunding  
the three monthly  instalments  and asking Close Brothers to pay the £450 compensation to 
him.
Close Brothers didnt  respond  by the deadline  given in my provisional  decision.
Ive thought about what Mr B has asked for and Ive reconsidered all the evidence  in the 
case to decide  whats fair in the circumstances.
I think Mr Bs request is reasonable. I dont  think the compensation  or the instalment refund  
is dependant on Close Brothers  getting  their car back and I can see theyll benefit because  
theyll continue to receive instalments towards the agreement. So for that reason Im 
amending my provisional decision  and my final decision is as follows.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell Close Brothers  Limited to:
pay Mr B £450 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused
remove any adverse records that have been  made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue
refund  three instalments hes made towards his finance agreement  and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7857319