K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about their secured loan with Prestige Finance Limited. Theyre  
unhappy that their contractual  monthly payment (CMP) went  up by much more  than they 
think it should when  the interest rate was increased  by 0.25% in December 2017.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out this loan in September 2006. They borrowed £40,000 (plus fees)  over 
a 20-year term, with an initial  (variable)  interest rate of 7.67% which gave an initial CMP of 
£345.30. Mr and Mrs S have been in arrears for many years.
In February 2018  an ombudsman  colleague issued a final decision on a different complaint 
brought by Mr and Mrs S about this loan,  and to be clear I wont  be visiting those issues. All 
Im considering here is the increase in the CMP that was notified to Mr and Mrs S in 
November 2017.
Our investigator said Prestige hadnt done  anything wrong. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial 
between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this means is that we 
dont represent  either  party.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that this wouldnt have happened if the loan had remained with the 
original lender (as it was passed to Prestige in November 2015). But thats not the case.
The loan was originally  taken out in 2006 with an interest rate of 7.67%  which  gave a 
monthly payment  of £345.30. But whilst the interest rate increased over the years the 
previous lender never increased Mr and Mrs S CMP to reflect  that as it should  have done. 
The previous  lender  realised its error  in 2012  and at that time it made  a lump sum payment 
to Mr and Mrs S account to cover  the underpayments and extra interest incurred, so at that 
point the account was put back in the position it would have been in had Mr and Mrs S 
payments been  increased correctly (albeit  Mr and Mrs S were better off as theyd not had to 
make those higher  payments).
Normally, from then, the previous lender would have  increased Mr and Mrs S CMP to the 
level it should be at. But as Mr and Mrs S were  in arrears and unable to meet  the lower 
amount theyd been paying, the lender  chose  not to increase  the pressure by increasing  the 
CMP to a level it knew Mr and Mrs S couldnt  afford.
Having reviewed the account I can see the interest rate changed as below (with the date 
being the month that rate was charged  from):
September  2006 7.67%
Ref: DRN70467092November 2006 7.92%
January 2007 8.17%
May 2007 8.42%
July 2007 8.67%
September  2007 9.52%
December 2007 9.02%
October 2008 10.97%
January 2009 10.22%
September  2016 9.97%
December 2017 10.22%
So whilst Mr and Mrs S CMP continued at £345.30 (which was the correct  amount at an 
interest rate of 7.67%) its clear that wouldnt be enough to repay the loan within  the agreed 
term once the interest rate had increased.
Normally Id consider  whether a consumer has been disadvantaged  by their account being  
underfunded (due to the lender asking for a lower  payment than was needed) but I dont 
need to do so here as its clear throughout the life of the loan Mr and Mrs S were  struggling 
to pay the lower amount, so a higher CMP wouldnt have been sustainable. It simply would 
have led to even  higher  arrears, and therefore extra  interest  and charges, and potentially  a 
greater risk of legal action  being taken.  Mr and Mrs S have been helped  by the payment 
being kept lower  than it should have been,  and so no compensation is due for that.
Mr and Mrs S have  said their CMP should  have  increased by less than a pound  in 
December 2017,  based on a 0.25% increase at that time. Having looked at what  
Mr and Mrs S have  said I think theyve misunderstood how mortgage  payments are 
calculated. The 0.25% increase doesnt  relate to a 0.25% increase in the CMP, it relates to 
an increase in the interest rate. So even if their account had run as it should from the start 
(with no arrears, extra interest  or extra charges) then a 0.25% interest rate increase  would  
equate to a CMP  increase of over £3. But that wouldnt have been a £3 increase on £345. It 
would have been a £3 increase on the amount they should have been  paying since 
September 2016, which was around £400.
So Prestige didnt  do a 0.25% rate increase, as Mr and Mrs S previous CMP was still based 
on the original  interest rate of 7.67%,  rather than the 9.97% interest rate it should  have  been  
at that time. So to take the interest  rate to the correct amount of 10.22%  it was, in effect, a 
2.55% increase; hence the much larger increase in CMP.
If Prestige hadnt  increased the CMP by such a large amount in December  2017  then 
Mr and Mrs S would still be underpaying  every  month (as the CMP has been  kept much  
lower than it should have been  since the start of the loan) and the situation  would just be 
worsening month on month. If Mr and Mrs S account had run as it should,  then they would 
have been paying about £400 a month since October 2008 as that would  have been  the 
CMP based on the true interest rate over the years. Instead theyve only been asked for 
about £345 each month.  All Prestige  did in December 2017 is move  the CMP to where  it 
should have been at that point (if there  had been no arrears or other costs).
Prestige said in its November 2017 letter that if Mr and Mrs S would  have difficulties with the 
higher CMP then they should get in touch. I can only suggest that Mr and Mrs S do that if the 
payments of over £400 a month are unaffordable for them,  as the amount quoted  is the true 
amount they should be paying just to keep their situation from worsening. If they are to repay  
Ref: DRN70467093the loan by the end of the original term (including all the extra  interest and charges) then the 
payment needed  is higher again.
Looking at the loan statements issued over the years, its apparent that the balance hasnt 
been reducing at the rate it needed to if it was to be fully repaid on time.  The figures on the 
loan agreement were  based on all the payments being made  in full and on time, but thats 
not happened. Mr and Mrs S were kept informed about the status  of their account by way of 
regular statements and letters detailing the payments and charges incurred.
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to provide an auditing  service or carry 
out a forensic  analysis  of loan accounts. Ive looked at the transaction  history  and theres  
nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect (other than the lower CMP as Ive 
explained). Whilst Mr and Mrs S have caught up with their missed  payments, each time a 
payment was missed  or made late extra interest  was incurred. There have also been fees 
and charges added over the years due to the arrears. All the fees, charges and additional 
interest that were added to the account  have rolled up to increase the balance.
Whilst Mr and Mrs S feel this situation  has been caused  by Prestige, thats  not the case. The 
annual statement issued by the previous lender in December 2014 gave an outstanding 
balance of £39,064 at that time.  Based on the account conduct  between December 2014 
and November 2015, the opening balance of £39,653 for Prestige in November  2015  (as 
shown on the November 2016  statement)  seems right. Since then Mr and Mrs S have 
missed payments and made them up, but theyve not paid enough  to cover the extra  in 
interest and charges as Ive explained above.  Theyve also not been  paying an amount  each  
month that represented  the true interest rate as Ive explained above.
Of course,  its open to Mr and Mrs S to instruct an independent suitably qualified 
professional to audit  their account. But that would have  to be at their expense  though  if 
errors were found to their financial detriment, they could complain about them and their costs 
in discovering them  could be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things stand,  
Im not persuaded that Prestige has mis-managed their account.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7046709