K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA) has declined  their home 
emergency claim. They say the exclusion its relied on is ambiguous.
Ms S brings this complaint on behalf of himself  and his wife, Mrs S. So to keep things simple 
Ill refer to them both collectively as Mr S throughout.
background
Mr S has a home  emergency  insurance policy which is underwritten by IPA.                      
In December 2018, Mr S noticed his oil-fired heating system was leaking  so he contacted his 
insurer for assistance. IPA declined  the claim on the basis  that oil-fired heating  systems are 
not covered under the policy. In the meantime, Mr S arranged for the leak to be repaired. 
Mr S is unhappy that his claim  has been  declined. He said the policy wording is unclear and 
that because his oil-fired system has an output  of less than 60 kilowatts  per hour (kw/hr) his 
claim should be covered.  
IPA said it wasnt able to cover the claim because oil-fired  heating systems are not covered 
under the policy.  It was satisfied that the policy wording was clear in respect  of what heating  
systems werent covered. It did however, pay £25 compensation because one of its advisers  
had previously said to Mr S the wording wasnt clear. IPA said the advisers comment didnt 
accurately reflect its position.
Mr S remained unhappy  and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered it but didnt  think the policy wording was ambiguous or that IPA had acted 
unfairly by declining the claim. So she said IPAs amount  of compensation was fair. 
Because Mr S disagreed  with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it and 
Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at the relevant  policy wording  and under the section what we dont  cover  it 
says:
LPG fuelled,  oil fired, warm  air, solar and un-vented  heating  systems or boilers with 
an output over 60kw/hr
This means  if Mr S heating system  meets any of the description  above (including oil fired)  it 
wont be covered. 
Mr S says because his boiler  doesnt have an output  over 60kw/hr his claim should be 
covered. But I dont agree with his interpretation of the policy terms.
Ref: DRN78931442IPA has declined Mr S claim on the basis that he has an oil fired heating system. It hasnt 
mentioned the output of his heating  system  and having read the wording, it doesnt need to. I 
say this because  the wording makes it clear  by the use of the word  or - that certain 
heating systems arent covered or boilers  with an output over 60kw/hr.  So IPA doesnt  need 
to satisfy both parts  of the exclusion  in order to rely on it. 
I think the policy wording  makes it clear that oil fired systems arent  covered, and as Mr S 
has this type of heating system, Im satisfied IPA has acted fairly by declining  the claim. 
For completeness Ive considered whether the £25 compensation paid by IPA fairly reflects 
the inconvenience Mr S was caused  as a result of it giving misinformation and Im satisfied it 
does. So I dont think IPA needs to do anything  else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7893144