K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance limited (Lloyds)  declined to 
replace their carpets under their home contents  insurance policy.
 
background
Mr and Mrs As pet caused  damage  to their carpets as a result of passing  large  amounts of 
acidic urine, this being  the side effect of some medication. Mr and Mrs A tried to clean their 
carpets but as staining and odour remained,  they made a claim under the accidental 
damage section of their contents insurance  for replacement carpets.
Lloyds inspected the carpets  and thought  they could be repaired by a deep clean, so 
declined to replace the carpets.
Our investigator considered the complaint,  he thought that Lloyds could  decide  whether to 
repair or replace  the carpets under  the policy. Our investigator thought it was not 
unreasonable for Lloyd to attempt repair of the carpet. He explained  that if the repair  was not 
effective and lasting, it would then be appropriate  for Lloyds  to replace the carpets.
Mr and Mrs A disagree with the view. They do not accept that a deep clean will repair  the 
carpets and they are concerned that the odour  might  cause the pet to urinate on the carpet 
again. Mr and Mrs A feel that Lloyds  are being  inflexible.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the carpets have been accidentally  damaged. Under the policy, Lloyds 
had the choice of repairing or replacing.  Lloyds rely upon an inspection  report,  which says 
the carpets could be restored by a professional clean.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A feel strongly about this matter  and I dont doubt that the 
damage has been unpleasant. But I have to consider whether the decision reached by 
Lloyds was unreasonable. On balance, I dont think it was.
Mr and Mrs A say they have attempted  a clean using specialist products but the problems 
remain and they have produced an email from a vet about the damage to the carpet.  I place 
limited weight on the vets opinion about  the extent  of damage to the carpet and underlay  as 
this isnt a matter within a vets area of expertise. In contrast, Ive seen  that Lloyds undertook 
an inspection of the carpets  and theyve relied upon  the information in the subsequent report 
about the likelihood of a professional clean  being successful. I dont think it is unreasonable  
to rely upon  this report and Ive noted that both Lloyds and our investigator have said that 
replacement could be considered if the repair/restoration was unsuccessful.
For the reasons  given,  I consider that Lloyds reached a fair and reasonable decision to 
attempt repair of the carpets by a professional clean. Theyve also said that Mr and Mrs A 
can discuss with the claims department  the option of putting the cost of cleaning towards the 
Ref: DRN70966622cost of a new carpet, if theyd like to do so. At this stage, I do not consider that it is fair and 
reasonable to replace the carpets.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs A but Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7096662