K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Northern Bank  Limited  (NBL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ms M took out a personal loan with NBL in 1998. At the same time she was sold a single 
premium PPI policy which would  have covered her loan repayments for up to a year at a 
time if she was made redundant.  And it would have  covered the repayments potentially  for 
the entire loan period if she was off sick. It also provide life cover.
The cost of the policy was added to Ms Ms loan and she paid interest on it.
Ms M says she wasnt told it was optional. She says she didnt need or want it. 
The adjudicator thought  that Ms Ms complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Ms M disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Unsurprisingly after over 20 years neither party has retained any documents  from the sale.  
NBL has been able to supply  a sample  copy of the loan application agreement which was in 
use at the time. It has a separate section for PPI which clearly shows there is a choice about 
taking it. The customer had to tick a box saying yes or no to the PPI and they had to sign 
that section as well as the whole form. I think its likely this is the same agreement  Ms M 
signed as its dated only a few days after the sale of her policy. So I think its likely Ms M had 
a choice about taking the PPI and chose to buy it.
NBL gave Ms M a personal recommendation about  the PPI, so it had a responsibility  to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for her. NBL says a full demands and needs 
assessment would have  taken  place, but this information isnt now available. So Ive looked  
at Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale to see if any recommendation wouldve been  
suitable. I think that it was. I say this because:
Ms M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Ms M had some sick pay from her employer, but the policy would  have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for the entire remaining term of the loan. So I think  it 
offered a useful  benefit;
Ms M hasnt told us about  any redundancy pay she may have been entitled  to. I think  
its likely  she would  have been  entitled to some  statutory  redundancy pay, but as 
shed only been working for her employer for a year at the time of sale I dont think  it 
would have been more than a couple of weeks pay. The policy would have  paid out 
Ref: DRN72590162in addition to this and potentially for up to a year at a time, so it provided a useful  
additional benefit;
Ms M says that her family would have helped out if she wasnt working. But this kind 
of help cant be guaranteed because other peoples circumstances can change too. 
Having the policy  meant that Ms M didnt need  to rely on any third party to meet her 
repayments;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at 
around the same time;
While  the policy may not have  offered  Ms M a pro-rata refund of the premiums if she 
cancelled it early, I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was something she 
was considering at the time of sale.
I can see that the cost of the policy and the interest she would have paid on it was clearly set 
out in the agreement, so Ms M would have understood  what she was paying for it. Its 
possible Ms M didnt get all other the information she ideally should have done, but as Ive 
already explained, I think  the policy was suitable  for her. So I dont  think  more, or better,  
information would have changed her mind about buying it.
So, on balance, on the information I have available to me, I dont think  Ms M lost out as a 
result of anything NBL might have  done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint so it follows that Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7259016