K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr P applied for a credit card by post in 1999 and PPI was added to his account at the same  
time. He says this was done without his knowledge.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ps complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr P disagrees  and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Mr P he had a choice about PPI and get his 
agreement to it. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ps credit card application. The quality of the copy 
isnt good. But I can see it has a section about PPI which briefly explains the cover. It gives 
an applicant the option to sign a box if they want the PPI. And it gives an equally clear option 
for an applicant to sign a box if they dont want the PPI. Mr Ps application has been signed  
by him to say he wants the cover. And I should  say his signature  in this box is in addition  to 
his signature applying for the card as a whole. So, at the time, and although  this is no longer 
how Mr P remembers  things, I think he chose to the PPI knowing he didnt have  to. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr P got the information he needed to make that 
decision himself in an informed way. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making 
his repayments,  which he says included savings and other insurance cover. Mr P hasnt  
given us anything  to show how much his savings  were. And the details hes given us about 
the other cover he had arent very specific but dont  appear to duplicate the cover the PPI 
gave. Mr P has also mentioned his parents  couldve helped him if needed. But family help of 
this kind cant always be guaranteed and so isnt the same as having an insurance policy  to 
fall back on. Having PPI wouldve meant Mr P could keep his savings  to be used towards 
other essential expenses if things got difficult.  And I think its likely the policy  would also 
have covered circumstances his other  insurance cover  wouldnt  have.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it wouldve been  useful to 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  
clearer information about the PPI wouldve put him off taking it out. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Ref: DRN77556542Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but his points dont change  my decision.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7755654