K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  their mortgage with The Mortgage Business Plc. They believe 
the interest rate on their mortgage is too high and theyve  been  unfairly  treated  by being 
promised lower rates which havent  come to pass.
background 
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage  with TMB, which theyve had for many  years.  Most of the 
balance is on interest only terms. Since  at least 2012, Mr and Mrs D have been experiencing 
financial difficulty and have been  in and out of arrears. Their  mortgage has been  part-paid by 
government benefits  for some of that time.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage has been on TMBs standard variable rate (SVR) for many years.  
They dont consider that theyve been  charged  a fair rate compared to other lenders and 
they say TMB has promised them at least  twice that theyd be able to access  lower rates if 
they cleared their arrears, but that hasnt happened. They also say TMB offered to 
re-mortgage them to Bank of Scotland, but again  that didnt happen. They complain about 
how theyve been  treated  and about the interest  rate theyve had to pay which,  they say, has 
compounded their financial difficulties.
TMB says it is closed to new mortgage business.  While it has offered existing borrowers new 
interest rates, it no longer  does so. But it does have arrangements with another lender, Bank 
of Scotland,  which is part of the same banking  group. Provided the customer qualifies,  Bank  
of Scotland will agree  to take them on  and as Bank of Scotland  is an active lender, it will 
be able to offer new interest rate products.
TMB says that Mr and Mrs D are in arrears, and so not eligible for a move to Bank of 
Scotland. It says that it has capitalised the arrears in the past,  most  recently  in 2015, and Mr 
and Mrs D could have  applied for a new interest  rate at that point. It had discussions with 
them about  doing so in 2016, but asked  them  to get some more information  Mr and Mrs D 
never followed that up, so the application didnt complete. Since then, theyve fallen  back 
into arrears again.
TMB said that it sent a letter  to Mr and Mrs D in early 2018 saying that they were in arrears  
and it would be applying  to the court for an eviction date. Its now said it shouldnt have sent 
that letter. It was based  on a possession  order from 2008  and so it should have recognised  
it needed to go back to court for an updated  possession order,  not simply an eviction date.  It 
offered Mr and Mrs D £500 for the upset caused  by wrongly making  them believe they were 
about to be evicted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs D are in a very difficult position, and I have much sympathy with 
them. Its clear  theyve  not had an easy time in recent years,  facing difficulties with both 
health and work which  have  impacted on their ability to pay their mortgage.  It must have 
been a very stressful period for them.
However, I can only uphold this complaint if I find that TMB has done something  wrong.  
Ref: DRN79834892Mr and Mrs D are concerned about  the interest rate theyve been asked to pay. Theyve 
been on the SVR for many years. Most lenders have an SVR, which  is the underlying 
mortgage rate. And then they offer shorter term fixed  or variable rates,  at lower rates, 
generally to attract new customers or retain existing ones, to replace the SVR for a time.
TMB is a closed lender  thats not taking on new business, but its still regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority and has to follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules  
that says a lender has to offer new interest rates to its customers  once  their old ones expire. 
The rules  say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly  taking  account  of their best 
interests; it has to communicate with them  in a clear, fair and not misleading way; it has to 
notify them of changes to their monthly  payments; and it mustnt take advantage of 
customers who cant move their mortgages  elsewhere by treating them differently to other 
customers with similar characteristics.
I dont know why TMB has closed to new business. But at some point it has taken a 
commercial decision that it no longer wants to offer new mortgages. And, later,  it decided  it 
no longer wanted  to offer new interest rates to existing customers  either.
Nothing in Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say that Mr and Mrs D 
would be entitled  to another fixed interest  rate an earlier  one expires. Im aware,  of course,  
from my knowledge of the mortgage market that its common for borrowers  to take a fixed  or 
tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly before its expiry, take another  rate rather  than 
revert to the SVR.  Sometimes thats  with their existing lender, sometimes  its with another  
lender. But theres  no entitlement  to a new rate  and thats true of most lenders mortgage 
agreements. 
Nonetheless, I still need to think about whether  its fair that TMB hasnt offered Mr and Mrs D 
a new interest rate, or reduced its SVR.
Mr and Mrs D arent  being treated any differently  to any other  TMB customer  it doesnt now 
offer new rates  to any customer. Im mindful that if TMB were  to offer new lower rates to 
some customers but not others, that could mean  some customers were  being treated less 
favourably than others with similar characteristics  which in turn could potentially cause 
unfairness. But that isnt currently the case. 
TMBs business model is based on not offering new products  and thats a decision about  
its business its entitled to take.  And Mr and Mrs D are not subject  to an ERC or any other 
barrier in their mortgage contract that would stop them moving their mortgage elsewhere to 
access new rates.
The difficulty  for Mr and Mrs D is that they cant move their mortgage because  of the arrears. 
And for the same reason TMB didnt  offer them a new product when it still had them  
available.
I dont think its unreasonable for TMB not to have offered a new interest rate product  while 
it still had them  while Mr and Mrs D were in arrears.  While doing so would have reduced 
their monthly payment, the history  of their account shows they still wouldnt have been  able 
to afford their mortgage. A lower  rate would have reduced the arrears   but wouldnt have 
meant there  werent any. And while they were  in arrears, there was a real risk of 
repossession, and a fixed  rate would have  increased the costs of that by adding  an early  
repayment charge.  The same  would have been  true if Mr and Mrs D had chosen to deal with 
Ref: DRN79834893the arrears by selling  their property. So I dont think a new rate would have taken them  out of 
arrears  and risked making  things worse.
Once the arrears  were  capitalised, in 2015, Mr and Mrs D were  eligible for a new interest  
rate. Ive looked  carefully at the history of the account TMB  has provided, and theres no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs D applied  for a new rate before  2016.   And  Mr and Mrs D have 
provided various notes  of their contact with TMB  theyve made themselves, but again they 
dont show an application for a new rate between the 2015  capitalisation and 2016.
In 2016, there was an application. TMB asked  Mr and Mrs D for some more  information and 
evidence. But theres nothing to suggest  that they followed up on this  and the account was 
soon back in arrears in any case.
Now, TMB  doesnt offer new interest rates.  Most  of its borrowers are on the SVR, and TMBs 
SVR isnt out of line with the SVRs of other  lenders  though its SVR is higher than other 
lenders fixed and tracker  rates.
TMB does have an arrangement with Bank  of Scotland. This allows  existing TMB customers 
to move to Bank of Scotland, provided they meet Bank of Scotlands criteria.  Once  with Bank 
of Scotland,  they will be able to access new rates. Given that TMB no longer offers new 
interest rates to its customers,  I think this arrangement is a fair way of helping  its customers.  
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs D are not currently eligible  to move to Bank of Scotland  because 
of their arrears  but this complaint is about TMB,  and so I cant  consider Bank of Scotlands 
criteria or whether theyre fair in this decision,  since Bank of Scotland is a separate  lender 
which isnt party to this complaint.
Ive explained  that TMB no longer  offers new mortgages or new interest rates. Thats  a 
business decision its entitled to make, and its not for me to require it to change  its business  
model. So I dont  think I can fairly  require  TMB to offer Mr and Mrs D a new interest rate, or 
reduce its SVR. While  I recognise this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs D, I dont think  it 
would be fair to uphold this part of their complaint. I cant fairly ask TMB to change  its SVR, 
or offer new interest rates when its withdrawn from the market. But I note there  is the option 
to move to Bank of Scotland, and I hope  Mr and Mrs D will be able to take this up in the 
future.
Ive looked at how TMB has treated Mr and Mrs D while theyve  been  in arrears. I 
understand they believe thats in large  part due to the interest rate, which Ive dealt with 
above. That apart, I dont  think TMB  has acted unfairly. It obtained a possession order in 
2008, before  the period  Im looking at as part of this complaint. But it didnt act on it to try 
and evict Mr and Mrs D from their property, even when they werent making any payments. It 
kept in touch with them,  tried to work  with them and entered several arrangements, as well 
as agreeing to capitalise  the arrears. I recognise  that this was a distressing time for Mr and 
Mrs D, but I think  the root of that were the personal  circumstances that led to their financial 
difficulty  and given  the need  for them to pay their mortgage, I think TMB acted fairly in the 
way it worked with them to try and achieve  that.
However, I note that TMB sent a letter  threatening  eviction.  Given  that the possession order 
was ten years old by that point, it shouldnt have  done  so. That would have been very 
upsetting to Mr and Mrs D. TMB has offered £500 compensation for that upset, which  I think  
is a fair offer in all the circumstances.  To that extent, I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN79834894my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part and direct 
The Mortgage Business Plc to pay Mr and Mrs D £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7983489