K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc failed to provide him with a straightforward answer 
regarding the status and purpose of a Mortgage Protection Policy  he has held since 2005, 
leading him to believe it was mis-sold.
background
In 2017 Mr F and his wife, Ms R, made enquiries  to HSBC about the status of a number of 
mortgage accounts and protection policies they held, as one of the mortgages was coming 
to the end of its term. The majority of these accounts and policies were  held in joint names, 
but one was in Mr Fs sole name. Its this policy that forms the basis of the complaint. 
There followed a protracted period  during which HSBC failed to provide clear and accurate 
information to Mr F and Ms R. That failure of service  on the part of HSBC has been dealt 
with as a separate complaint, so I wont comment here further  on any issues relating to 
service. This decision deals solely with the provision of the policy by HSBC to Mr F in 2005  
and whether HSBC  acted  incorrectly in that respect.
The policy came about as part of the redress package  put together by HSBC  in 2005 in 
response to a complaint made  by Mr F and Ms R in October 2004  about a number of 
mortgage endowment  policies  theyd  been sold in the 1980s/90s.  HSBC  accepted  that the 
mortgage endowments  hadnt been  suitable  for Mr F and Ms R and offered compensation 
based upon the guidelines set by the then financial regulator, the Financial Services 
Authority. 
Broadly speaking, this involved  converting their existing interest-only mortgages  into capital 
repayment mortgages, making a number of payments to put Mr F and Ms R in the financial 
position theyd  have been in if theyd had repayment  mortgages from the outset, and also 
setting up term assurance  policies to replace the life cover previously provided  by the mis-
sold endowment  policies. 
There was significant  correspondence between Mr F, Ms R and HSBC during the course of 
2005 and 2006 as the quite complicated  process  of paying compensation and restructuring 
the mortgages and life cover was finalised. But all appears to have  eventually  been settled 
by mid-2006. 
Then, as noted, when  one of the mortgages  reached  the end of its term in 2017 the 
aforementioned enquiries were made to HSBC and the issue  of the extra life cover  policy  in 
Mr Fs sole name arose.  At this point Mr F and Ms R had three  mortgages  in joint names,  
three life cover policies  in joint names and Mr Fs sole name  life policy.  
There then followed the issues  with HSBC failing to provide clear information, which 
culminated in a complaint being  made about  the mis-sale of Mr Fs sole name  life cover 
policy. 
HSBC responded  to say, in brief, that it felt Mr Fs policy  alongside the other joint policies 
set up at the same time  had been a suitable  way to replace the life cover lost as a result of 
the conversion of the endowment mortgages to a repayment basis.  It said that it had 
provided Mr F with relevant documentation  and an opportunity  to cancel the policy if hed felt 
it wasnt necessary or suitable.  
Ref: DRN76592992The whole matter  of the potential mis-sale and HSBCs service failure was referred to this 
service. In respect of the mis-sale issue, our investigator concluded that complaint shouldnt  
be upheld. He said, in brief,  that he didnt think the Mortgage Protection  Plan had been  mis-
sold, because:
The sale was non-advised and part of the mortgage endowment mis-sale redress 
process. HSBC had provided the necessary information about  the policy.  
Mr F and Mr R had specifically queried the policy in 2005 as part of the ongoing 
correspondence about the redress package  as a whole, saying that the endowment 
policy it was intended to replace hadnt  actually been taken  out to support a 
mortgage, but for life cover only. 
HSBC had explained, in response  to this query, that the policy  had simply been 
provided to replace  the life cover  provided  by Mr Fs sole name  endowment, but in a 
more suitable  manner. 
Mr F and Ms R had accepted this and an acceptance form for the new policy  was 
returned to HSBC.
In the event of a claim, the replacement policy wouldve paid out in line with the 
requirements of the endowment policy it replaced. 
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators view. He made a number of comments  unrelated  to the 
merits of the complaint, which  have been dealt with separately,  but also said,  in brief:
He didnt seek out the policy; it was sold to him as part of a package to resolve  the 
earlier endowment  mis-sale. 
The policy has now been  revealed  to be a stand-alone life cover  policy,  so the fact 
that it is called a Mortgage  Protection  Policy is extremely  misleading.
Hes very concerned that the investigators  view that the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld is based upon his acceptance that because there were three mortgages in 
place at the time this might explain why HSBC  didnt know which mortgage the policy  
was intended  to cover. 
If HSBC was at all unclear about  the status or purpose of the policy  then this 
constitutes mis-selling.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, so the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr F has strong feelings about the actions of both HSBC and this service. Hes 
provided detailed  submissions to support his complaint,  which Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. Much of what has been said further  to the investigator  giving  his view of the 
complaint has touched  on the previously decided issue of our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint, and the service provided  to Mr F. However, I trust he wont take as a discourtesy  
the fact that my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the issues  central to the merits of the 
complaint. 
To my mind the crux of the complaint is whether HSBC acted incorrectly  in providing the 
policy to Mr F  in short, did it mis-sell the policy to him?
Ref: DRN76592993As has been noted, the sale of the policy was not a typical  recommendation of life cover to 
protect a new mortgage  where a new mortgage is taken out and an appropriate policy  
matching the terms of the mortgage is recommended. Instead, Mr Fs policy was a part of 
whole package of new products intended to replace a number of existing products 
(mortgages and life policies,  taken out by Ms R and Mr F jointly and in sole names  and at 
different times) that had been deemed unsuitable by HSBC.  
The endowment that the policy in question replaced had been started in 1992.  It had 
apparently been  recommended  by HSBC  in relation to a house  purchase Mr F and Ms R 
were making at the time and was intended  to mirror  a £24,000 policy  Ms R already held in 
relation to a previous house purchase. It was for a 25 year term, with monthly  premiums  of 
£36.70.
When HSBC carried out the endowment mis-sale redress process, in addition  to writing to 
Mr F and Ms R about  their joint products,  it also wrote separately to Mr F in March 2005 to 
explain that it was upholding the complaint about his sole name policy.  It explained that a 
refund of the premiums, minus the cost of life cover, would be made  and applied  to one the 
of the joint mortgage accounts. The letter went  on to say:
Upon  conversion of the mortgage  I will also arrange life cover  under an HSBC  Life 
Mortgage Protection Plan for the remainder of the mortgage loan term. This policy has been  
designed to replicate as close as possible the plan that would have been recommended  
alongside a Capital Repayment  Mortgage.
A quotation for the plan was included that detailed  decreasing term cover  of £16,088 for 
£6.00 per month over a 13 year term  terms intended to reflect the position that an 
appropriate policy sold in 1992 wouldve been in at that point. 
The process of arranging the overall  package of compensation  continued and in May 2005  
Mr F and Ms R wrote  to HSBC questioning  the information about  his sole name  policy that 
had been provided in the March 2005 offer letter. The letter  had made reference linking the 
policy to a capital  repayment mortgage.  Mr F and Ms R said they were confused by this as 
(Mr F) did not require a mortgage  for £24,000  in 1992, but merely required life cover in 
relation to the sum of £24,000.
HSBC replied to reconfirm that the offer to Mr F was being made to simply replace  the life 
cover that had been provided as part of the 1992  £24,000  endowment policy.  
On 17 June 2005 Mr F and Mr R replied to say:
Thank you very much for clarifying further by telephone the situation  relating to
(the policy).  We note from what was said that this endowment policy, which was shown not 
to have been required given that simple life cover  only was needed, is not being converted 
into an interest only loan per se, but the sum offered by way of redress,  amounting to 
£7895.01, will be used  lo reduce the total mortgage  loan. (Mr F) has signed and is returning 
herewith the conversion acceptance form associated with policy   on that basis .
It appears there was then some confusion with the paperwork, but on 20 September  2005  
HSBC wrote to Mr F to confirm that the new Mortgage Protection  Plan had started under the 
previously communicated  terms,  save for the monthly premium  reducing to £5.64  due to an 
error. HSBC  confirmed it would honour  the reduced  premium. The policy then remained in 
place until the 2017 queries to HSBC  were made.  
Ref: DRN76592994Looking back on this lengthy and admittedly rather complicated chronology  it does seem  to 
me that HSBC acted  correctly in replacing the Mr Fs endowment with a Mortgage Protection 
Plan, as part of the overall package of compensation offered in response to the multiple 
endowment mis-sales. 
There doesnt seem to have been  any suggestion in 2005/06 that the policy  wasnt required. 
Conversely, it seems that Mr F and Ms R were  quite clear  in stating that the life cover that 
had been provided by the 1992 endowment policy should be replaced, on the understanding  
that it wasnt associated  with any of the mortgages. And the terms of the new policy  appear  
to have been correct in the context of matching  what wouldve been provided by the 
replaced endowment  policy  the sum assured and the term. 
I note what Mr F has said about it being  misleading  that a policy  intended solely for the 
purpose of providing  life cover was called a Mortgage Protection  Plan.  But this was simply 
how the policy was branded. It was nevertheless a standard  decreasing  term life assurance  
policy, which did what it was required to do, regardless of its name. 
And there was never any attempt by HSBC  to create confusion at the time  it was made 
entirely clear  that the life cover  that Mr F confirmed he needed would  be provided by way of 
a policy  called a Mortgage Protection  Plan.  The premium quotation documentation provided  
to him even  stated  that Where this policy is in connection with other  goods  or services, such  
as a mortgage, this policy  IS not a requirement  of purchasing  those other goods or services , 
which indicated that this type of plan was, despite  its name,  not used exclusively for 
mortgage protection. 
I appreciate that because  of the service  issues mentioned earlier this has been a frustrating 
process for Mr F. But that aside, looking only at the issue of whether his Mortgage  Protection 
Plan was mis-sold, I dont think the evidence supports a finding that it was. In my view, the 
provision of the policy in the context of the endowment redress process  (as opposed  to 
being a more traditional advised sale, which HSBC confirmed at the time this wasnt)  was 
reasonable and explained  to Mr F at the time. 
I think its worth noting too, that in a letter HSBC  wrote  to Mr F and Ms R in May 2006, in 
response to further  queries, it confirmed the current balances on the three mortgages and 
the current sums assured on the three joint name Mortgage Protection Policies. These 
appear to show that at that point the joint policies didnt cover the total mortgage borrowing, 
by a shortfall of just under £12,000, so this may also have been  a reason why Mr Fs policy  
was accepted and subsequently remained in place. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Ref: DRN76592995James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659299