K821x#15complaint
Miss Y says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a personal  loan in 2002.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ys case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ys complaint. Ill explain why below.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Miss Y. This means it had to check that the PPI 
was right for her. But, based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I dont think 
that it was.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition that Miss Y knew  about  at 
the start of the policy. And Miss Y has told us shed been diagnosed with a medical  condition  
a number of years before the sale.
Santander has said that Miss Y has been  inconsistent about her condition  and so has asked 
for some documentary evidence that she was suffering from it at the time of the sale.  But I 
cant see that it was explained to Miss Y why the information was important, so I think  its 
understandable that she didnt mention her medical condition  when  initially bringing her 
complaint.
Miss Y has told us she had an operation as a result of her medical  condition  and had to take 
around six months off work. Shes also told us she has to take medication for the rest of her 
life and have yearly check-ups. Based on the details Miss Y has given us about her 
condition, Im satisfied that she had it at the time of the sale and I dont think its necessary to 
require any further  proof  from her.
I havent seen  sufficient evidence that Santander asked Miss Y clear enough questions 
about any medical conditions at the time of the sale, or explained that any pre-existing 
medical conditions  wouldnt be covered  by the policy.  And, based on what Miss Y has told us 
about her condition, I dont think the policy was right for her and I dont think shed have 
taken the policy if it had been  made clear to her that her condition wouldnt  be covered. So I 
think shes lost out as a result of Santander  not making sure the policy  was right for her.
Ref: DRN79418992putting things right
Santander should put Miss Y in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Miss Y the amount she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss Y made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must  give Miss Y a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ys complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7941899