K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that he was charged  a transaction fee when he paid off a loan he got from 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF).
background
In February 2018  Mr L took out a fixed sum loan with BPF to fund a relatively large  
purchase. The loan had an interest free period and Mr L repaid the balance  of over £7,000 
within that time using  a credit card provided  by a third party  lender (that Ill refer to as T). 
When Mr L received his credit card statement from T shortly  after he found a cash 
transaction fee of over £300 had been  applied  to the payment, along with interest.  Mr L says 
T told him this fee is automated and hes unhappy  that BPF didnt warn  him that this might 
happen when  he phoned to pay off the loan using  a credit card. He had cleared funds 
available at the time and would have used another  form of payment if he had known.  
Mr L thinks BPF should include a generic warning for all borrowers  that loan repayments 
may attract a fee, depending on the payment method used.  He feels  it is unfair that hes 
been obliged  to pay this transaction charge and he wants  BPF to reimburse it.  
BPF doesnt think it has done  anything wrong. It says (in summary) 
it doesnt charge  fees for payments  made by credit card;
Mr L was under  no obligation to repay  the loan in full when he did;
it was his decision to make the payment  and which payment method to use; 
it was Mr Ls responsibility to check the terms and conditions  of his credit  card 
account; 
BPF isnt responsible  for providing  information to Mr L about fees he might incur 
elsewhere; and 
Mr L should direct his complaint to T if he is unhappy  with fees that T applied.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ls complaint.  He doesnt recommend that it should 
be upheld. Hes satisfied the decision  to use a credit card was taken by Mr L and the 
charges he complains about  were applied by T, not BPF. He is not persuaded its 
reasonable to expect  a financial business to know about, or advise consumers on, fees that 
might be applied by a third party - even by way of a generic notice - in this situation. Hes not 
persuaded that BPF was under any obligation  to inform Mr L that T might apply a charge  and 
doesnt think it should have to do anything  further. 
Mr L doesnt agree. He still thinks BPF should  have let him know  that his credit card provider 
might treat this transaction  as a cash advance and charge a fee. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr L but I have 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN77984882I can see that Mr L feels strongly about what happened here. And I can understand that, 
having taken the trouble to pay off the loan he got from BPF to avoid  paying  interest,  it came  
as something of a shock to find the payment incurred a fee of over £300. 
This fee was however applied because  of the way Mr Ls credit card provider T treated the 
transaction - not BPF. I appreciate  that, with the benefit of hindsight,  Mr L would  rather  BPF 
had warned him that this might happen.  But, I am satisfied that BPF was under no obligation 
to do so - and I am not persuaded that BPF should reasonably have  done  so here. As Mr L 
himself has acknowledged, BPF cant reasonably be expected to know about  the charges  
other lenders may apply  - and in what circumstances.
I understand Mr L feels that BPF should  nevertheless issue  a generic warning before any 
loan repayment  is made  - to let borrowers know that some  payment methods might attract a 
fee. Im afraid its not the role of this service  to tell BPF, or any other  lender, how to operate  
on a day to day basis. I am satisfied BPF is not required to provide this sort of warning. And I 
dont have the power to require it to do so here.  
I understand Mr Ls frustration but, for the reasons Ive explained, I am not persuaded that 
BPF did anything wrong. So, I am unable to fairly require it to provide a refund or do 
anything further.  
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7798488