K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of Mr D, her brother, that Nationwide  Building  Society  
(Nationwide) mis-sold  Mr D a credit card.  Mrs M would like the credit  card cancelled with the 
outstanding debt written  off. She would also like the staff responsible to be held accountable  
for mis-selling and mis-treating  vulnerable adults
background
Mrs M says she is the appointee for Mr D who is a vulnerable person. She says when she 
realised Mr D had taken  out a credit  card she made Nationwide  aware  that her brother was a 
vulnerable adult. And that he wasnt in employment.   But she says prior to that she and other  
family members had made Nationwide aware  of Mr Ds situation.
She says she asked Nationwide to recall  the card and to write off the amount owing. But 
says despite visiting the bank weekly it reduced  the credit limit. But didnt freeze the account.  
Or offer any financial guidance  to Mr D.
Shes also not happy that Nationwide allowed Mr D to go overdrawn on another account he 
had with Nationwide
She says other companies are working with her to deal with Mr Ds debts. But Nationwide  
has refused to deal with her despite having letters of authority from Mr D.
She says contact from Nationwide and from a debt collection  agency Nationwide sold Mr Ds 
debt onto is affecting Mr Ds health.
Nationwide said it would  need a power of attorney for it to deal direct with Mrs M over Mr Ds 
affairs.
In terms of the credit card application it said it took the information Mr D provided at the time 
as correct and said it couldnt be held responsible if this was not so.
With regard to Mr Ds other account it clarified  that this didnt have  an approved overdraft  
limit. But it did have  the facility for certain payments to be made  if they only took the account 
into a small overdraft.  It said it did offer other current accounts  that might  be more  suitable 
for Mr D.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ds complaint. He found Nationwide hadnt treated Mr D fairly 
and with due diligence  given his vulnerability. He recommended that Nationwide  refund all 
charges and fees applied  to Mr Ds credit card account since  it was opened on 21 June 
2017. And pay Mr D £250 for trouble and upset.
Mrs M accepted this on behalf of Mr D.
Nationwide said it didnt  agree with a number of points in our investigators view although 
didnt specify which they were. But it said it felt it would be fair to reimburse fees and 
charges associated with the credit card and to pay the £250 compensation recommended  
which it subsequently did.
Ref: DRN73735072When Mrs M received a cheque for Mr D for £250 she queried it with our investigator  as she 
understood it had been agreed  all payments Mr D had made on the credit card would be 
refunded but this hadnt happened.
Our investigator clarified that the refund of charges would be applied directly Mr Ds account 
in effect reducing  the outstanding debt. And that this should include 8% simple interest. He 
said it wouldnt be fair for Nationwide to refund  payments  made on the card as Mr D had 
benefitted from use of the card.
Mrs M said she was aware of numerous cases whereby banks have written off outstanding 
debts. She says she felt the information she had been given caused  some confusion and as 
a result she feels she accepted the £250 offer under false  pretences.
Nationwide then disputed  the relevance  of the 8% simple interest per annum  that our 
investigator had added to his suggested redress.  It didnt feel it was relevant in this case as 
it had now refunded all interest and charges  back to the account.  So it said all the payments 
Mr D had made have been  used to reduce the principal amount owed. And it confirmed that 
interest and charges stopped being  applied to the account in October  2018.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He felt if Nationwide  had 
reviewed Mr Ds situation adequately he may not have been  given  a credit card. So he 
wouldnt have incurred  interest and charges. He felt Mr D wouldve assumed any payments 
he made were towards the full balance including  any fees and charges applied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has raised a number of issues along with her main complaint that Nationwide mis-
sold Mr D a credit card.  I think it might  be helpful if I deal with those first.
Firstly she feels  as Mr D gave her signed authority to deal with his affairs Nationwide  
shouldve accepted this. And she has given us a lot of evidence  to show  that other  
businesses have done so. Unfortunately in this complaint  I can only look at what  Nationwide  
has done and its effect on Mr D. Not at the actions of other companies.
Nationwide has said it needs  a power of attorney for Mrs M to deal with. Other companies 
havent asked  for that. But that doesnt  mean  that Nationwide  is wrong to ask for it just 
because other businesses havent done so.
Secondly Mrs M has said she wants Nationwide staff to be held responsible for mis-selling  
to, and mis-treating a vulnerable person. I need  to make it clear our role isnt to punish 
businesses or individuals but to investigate complaints and where  appropriate seek  to put 
matters right.
In terms of Mrs Ms main complaint I dont think there is any dispute that Nationwide allowed 
Mr D to open a credit  card account  in June 2017.
Mrs M has told us she, and other family  members,  frequently made Nationwide aware of 
Mr Ds vulnerability so it shouldnt have agreed a credit card for Mr D
Ref: DRN73735073I cant be sure what Mr D and Nationwide discussed when Mr D applied for the credit card.  
Ive seen the application Mr D made which stated he was in employment with a salary of 
£15,000 pa. Nationwide has no other information it can I can consider.
Nationwide says it should be able to rely on information consumers give Nationwide.  I agree 
but it also has a duty to act responsibly so I dont think it can just take at face value 
information it is given.  
Its clear from all the information that Mrs M has given us that Mr D is a vulnerable person 
and she has evidenced  that she deals with his financial matters such as debts, other  
financial institution and utility companies. She has also provided medical  information  in 
relation to Mr D.
Nationwide says it has no record  of being made aware of Mr Ds vulnerability  prior to getting 
a letter  confirming this in November 2017.  However  its customer  notes log a concern on 19 
October 2017 that Mr D was followed into the branch by some  suspicious looking individuals. 
And the note flagged  to check if withdrawals were being made to ensure Mr D wasnt  being  
taken advantage of due to his vulnerable status.  I cant see any other reference to Mr D 
being a vulnerable consumer prior to this entry in October 2017. But the entry reads  that 
Nationwide was already aware  Mr D was a vulnerable consumer.
But as I cant be sure, from what I have seen,  when exactly Nationwide  became aware  of 
Mr Ds situation I cant reasonably conclude nationwide mis sold Mr D a credit card.  
However Nationwide had said it has no record of any making any particular adjustments or 
allowances for Mr D once  it became aware of his situation .And it has already paid the £250 
compensation our investigator recommended. And refunded  all fees and charges back to 
Mr Ds credit card account which has reduced the overall amount outstanding. I think that is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its unfortunate Mrs M mis-understood this settlement. I do think some of our 
correspondence couldve been clearer for which I apologise. She understood the full balance  
was going to be written  off so there  would  be no outstanding debt. So I can appreciate her 
strength of feeling  when she realised this wasnt the case.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs M expected or feels if fair. But I agree with our 
investigator that I dont  feel its fair to ask Nationwide  to cancel Mr Ds outstanding debt as 
he has had use of the credit card to his benefit.
I noted Mrs M also wanted Mr Ds credit card cancelled. The last statement Ive seen  shows 
theres no available cash or credit  limit on the card so I dont believe Mr D still has use of it.
Nationwide for its part doesnt feel its reasonable that 8% simple interest is added to the 
refund of the charges  and fees it has already made. I agree with its view. Ive looked  at the 
credit card statements which  explain  that repayments are offset  against  the balance  in a 
specific order starting with any fees,  interest or charges. The minimum monthly payment 
covers any such  fees and 1% of the total balance or £25 whichever  is the greater.
Given Mr D fairly consistently made  more  than the minimum payment each month he 
wouldve paid off any charges and interest  until he stopped regularly making payments in 
July 2018. It then seems  all charges were stopped in October 2018.
Ref: DRN73735074Finally Mrs M has mentioned that Nationwide allowed Mr Ds current account  to go 
overdrawn.  Ive  looked at Mr Ds bank statements from 2014-2018  he seems to have  gone  
overdrawn approximately a dozen times  but otherwise seems to have managed  his account 
relatively well. 
Nationwide has said it has other current accounts  that might be more suitable  for Mr D. 
Assuming Mr D still has accounts  with Nationwide I hope it will look at this and at any other 
suitable adjustments it can offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7373507