K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited failed to reasonably reimburse  
them for bringing Mr J home  under their travel policy, after he fell ill whilst abroad.
background
Mr and Mr J have a holiday home abroad. Mr J went out to check  over their property on his 
own for a few days on 13 April 2018.  Whilst there he became ill and collapsed on the street 
and was taken  to hospital on 16 April.  Mrs J flew out on 17 April with her son also flying  out 
the next day.
Mr J was in intensive  care,  very seriously ill with cellulitis and sepsis.  Mrs J found him tied to 
the bed as he was very agitated, which concerned  her greatly. She also had communication  
difficulties with the doctors  and hospital due to language differences. She was very 
concerned about  his treatment and arranged to have him flown  back to the UK.
She was in contact  with Aviva but it didnt  authorise the repatriation given the medical  
evidence at the time. Nevertheless Mrs J went ahead to get Mr J home as soon as possible  
where he had several operations and a long recovery.
Aviva refused to pay for the repatriation, some taxi costs and the flight costs of her son. Mr 
and Mrs J remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree so 
their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, however, I do thoroughly understand how seriously ill Mr J was, and how distressing it 
must have  been  for Mrs J and her son to arrive  at the hospital  to see him being restrained. 
And additionally to have  had communication difficulties with the hospital due to language 
issues making things  so much more  difficult. I also understand  Mrs Js wish simply to get 
Mr J back to the UK as fast as possible.
But my role here is assess if Aviva  did anything wrong in its assessment of the requirement  
for repatriation at that time. The policy does provide for repatriation  in these circumstances, 
but thats a decision for Aviva to make  on the basis of the medical evidence supplied  to it at 
the time.  Its not a decision for Mrs J to have made  on her own,  if she wanted Aviva to 
provide cover for it.
Aviva said in its final response letter that repatriation would only be provide if the emergency  
medical team agreed and here it didnt, as Mr Js treating doctors told them Mr J wasnt fit to 
fly. And further its clear  Aviva were satisfied his treating doctors  were  following a coherent 
treatment plan as the adjudicator explained.  Also, Aviva did make it clear to Mrs J at the time 
that if she went ahead with the repatriation  privately,  there was no cover available  for it.
Ref: DRN75227812As the adjudicator detailed in her view, when Avivas medical talked with Mr J treating 
doctors on 23 April it was clear Mr J was stabilising a little but remained in intensive care.  
Aviva wanted to Mr J to stabilise more  and was awaiting  the results  of the test on skin 
samples, which were trying to find out the cause of the cellulitis.  I dont consider this to be an 
unreasonable stance for Aviva to take based  on the available medical evidence at that time. 
This means  consequently that I dont  consider Aviva to have done  anything wrong in 
deciding this then.  I cant comment  on what Aviva may have decided  later,  as Mrs J went 
ahead with the repatriation.
Its also clear  that when Mrs J first saw her husband  he was tied to the bed and that his 
bedsheets were persistently wet. I can understand how distressing this was. It was then that 
she set things in motion  to get him repatriated.  But whilst  I understand why she did that, that 
doesnt mean Aviva should pay this part of the claim when its so clear  it had talked  to his 
treating doctors  and its medical team were in agreement with the treatment plan the hospital 
was following. 
So theres nothing  in the evidence showing Aviva did anything  wrong in coming  to its 
decision at that time that Mr J should remain in the hospital. Therefore, I dont consider it 
should now pay Mrs J for the repatriation costs, more especially as it told Mrs J there  wasnt 
any cover  at the time.
The adjudicator explained that the policy only provides cover for one person to have 
travelled out to be with Mr J at this time. Its of course understandable why their son came 
out too, but theres no cover for him in these circumstances,  under this policy.  Mrs Js costs 
were paid by Aviva.
As regards  the taxi fares, Aviva paid those in line with its policy terms also.   
my final decision
So whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs J will be very disappointed, its my final decision that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7522781