K820x#14complaint
Ms G says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has not properly compensated her 
for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Ms G opened a store card account in March 1996, at the same  time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
In 2017 Ms G complained to FICL about the sale of the PPI. Unhappy with its response  she 
asked this service to step in.
Following our involvement FICL agreed to uphold Ms Gs complaint  and pay her 
compensation in line with this services guidance.
FICL offered Ms G £1,456.52 in total.  Ms G didnt think  this properly compensated her.        
Ms G told us a third party  had led her to believe she was owed around £2,500.
An adjudicator from this service thought FICL had fairly compensated Ms G. Ms G disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
FICL has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont  look 
into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Ms G. Ive looked at the compensation FICL has 
paid Ms G to see if it calculated the redress fairly.
Having done so I think FICL has fairly  compensated Ms G, and Ill explain why.
Where a PPI policy has been  mis-sold Id expect the business  to, as far as is practical, put 
the consumer  in the position theyd be in if the policy hadnt been  sold.
When a business  compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store  card, wed normally  
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed  then 
expect the business to refund to the consumer all the extra they paid because  of the PPI.     
Id also expect a business to add interest  calculated at 8% simple  for the time theyd not had 
use of the money.
To do this a business  needs to know the actual amounts the consumer spent on the store 
card as the PPI premiums  are linked to the outstanding monthly  balance.
Ref: DRN77033062In this case FICL has detailed records of all the PPI premiums that were charged to Ms Gs 
account after August  2005. But between March 1996 and July 2005 it doesnt  hold detailed  
records of the account. I dont find this unusual as businesses are not required to keep 
detailed records indefinitely.
FICL does  however know that in total Ms G was charged £611.66 for PPI over the term of 
the policy. From this FICL  was able to work  out how much Ms G was charged for PPI before 
August 2005.  
FICL has used this information to carry out a reconstruction of Ms Gs account  as if she 
hadnt been sold the PPI. And its worked  out that Ms G was charged £444.22 interest 
because of the PPI premiums.
So FICL refunded  all the PPI premiums Ms G was charged for the PPI (£611.66) and the 
extra interest shed  been charged  because of the PPI (£444.22).
FICL also paid Ms G compensatory interest  calculated at 8% simple for the time shed been 
out of pocket. This came to £400.64  net of income  tax.
So in total FICL paid Ms G £1,456.52. From what Ive seen I think this is fair and has been 
calculated this in the way Id expect it to.
Ms G has told us a third party informed her she may be owed £2,500.  Ive thought  about  this 
but the figure seems to have  been an estimate based on the average that the third party  
believes is paid to consumers who have been mis-sold PPI. Ive not seen any evidence that 
the figure was based on Ms Gs actual store card or PPI premiums. And in any event the 
amount of compensation awarded  for mis-sold PPI varies greatly  and depends on many 
variables such as the level of premiums  charged, the type of PPI and how long the policy 
was in force.
Ms G has also complained about  the length  of time it took FICL to deal with her complaint. In 
cases like this where the sale of a policy  took place so many  years ago, and where  records 
are incomplete it can take time for a business to fully respond.  In Ms Gs case I can see she 
complained to FICL towards the end of 2017. FICL  wrote to Ms G in February 2018 and let 
her know  she could  refer her complaint to this service. Once our adjudicator upheld Ms Gs 
complaint in June  2018 I can see FICL  agreed to pay the compensation to Ms G quickly  and 
sent her a cheque. And, as Ive said I think the compensation has been fairly calculated.      
So while I acknowledge it must have been  frustrating for Ms G to have  to wait so long for a 
resolution, I dont think itd be fair to direct FICL to pay additional compensation for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Financial Insurance Company Limited  has fairly compensated Ms G 
for the mis-sale of the PPI in 1996. So I make no further award against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ref: DRN77033063Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7703306