K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Police Credit Union  Limited (PCUL) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2006 Ms M bought PPI when she took out a loan. Both were done  at the same time by 
postal application.
The PPI was designed to protect Miss Ms loan repayments in the event she couldnt  work 
because of accident and sickness only. The policy cost £2.76  a month.
At the time Ms M was employed  and she told us she was entitled  to sick pay of six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay. She said she didnt have any savings and was in 
good health at the time.
PCULs records  show  the loan ran to term and the account closed  before  April 2008.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that based on the paperwork from the 
time they thought Ms M chose to take out PPI and there was nothing  to indicate it was wrong  
or inappropriate for her.
Ms M disagrees.  She says that PCUL knew what her sick pay was and that she therefore  
didnt need PPI. She says because this wasnt discussed with her she was mis-sold.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint  comes  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will be disappointing  for Ms M, Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint. Ive set out my reasons  below.
did PCUL  make it clear that Ms M had a choice  about PPI?
I can see that Ms M hasnt disputed that she selected PPI. And looking at the paperwork she 
completed at the time, I can see that both the loan agreement and the separate  PPI 
application required Ms M to indicate whether she wanted PPI or not and Ms M ticked  the 
required boxes on both.
So Im satisfied that PCUL did give Ms M a choice  about PPI and that she agreed to take it 
out without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN78874452did PCUL  provide advice?
Both parties  agree this wasnt  an advised sale. And looking  at what  happened  when  PCUL  
sold PPI, Im satisfied it didnt provide advice. This means PCUL  didnt have  to ensure that 
PPI was right or suitable for Ms M. But it did have  to give her enough clear  and timely  
information about the policy so Ms M could  make an informed  choice.
the information
Ive already said PCUL  has provided us with Ms Ms loan agreement  and PPI application. 
PCUL hasnt been able to provide  the policy terms and conditions, which applied to policies like 
Ms Ms from around  this time. Weve also not been  able to obtain one from the policy insurer.  So I 
dont know the exact terms of the policy including the significant exclusions to and/or limits on the 
cover provided. But in deciding this complaint Ive assumed the policy  was of a similar nature / 
typical of other loan PPI products on offer elsewhere in the market  at the time  I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think the information PCUL provided would have given Ms M a broad sense of the main 
things the policy covered  and that it wasnt free  the application itself said it was protection  
against unemployment (if chosen) and accident and sickness  and it set out the formula for 
how the policy cost was worked out. Given Ms M completed her application  in her own time, 
I think its reasonable to assume she wouldve paid more attention to the written information  
provided than for example in a face to face meeting where more reliance might be placed on 
the spoken word  of an adviser. I dont think Ms M wouldve decided to take the policy out 
knowing nothing about what she was ticking for.
But it was PCULs responsibility to draw  to Ms Ms attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations, which might be relevant to her decision. 
Based on the evidence  provided, Im not persuaded that PCUL  did enough to do this. For 
example, I cant see the exact cost of the policy was disclosed to Ms M before she agreed to 
take out the cover (only the formula as I said above.) In addition,  while  I accept the PPI 
application makes  some reference  to existing medical condition exclusions, I dont think 
PCUL adequately drew  to her attention the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
So I dont  think PCUL  gave Ms M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy.  
what effect did PCULs shortcomings have on Ms M? To what extent did Ms M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that PCUL  didnt likely  do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy  to Ms M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms M 
would have still taken  out the policy had PCUL done things properly. 
Ref: DRN78874453Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Ms M to weigh up in her own mind 
the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she 
didnt insure against the risk of being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Ms M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But I accept 
Ms M made  this decision based on incomplete information. So Ive gone on to consider 
Ms Ms circumstances at the time to help me decide  whether she wouldve still taken out PPI 
in any event or if shed  have acted differently had PCUL done more.  And having  done so, I 
think its likely Ms M wouldve still gone  ahead with PPI in any event. I say this because:
Ms M was eligible for the cover;
she was employed  and in good  health, so she wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt likely  cover or limited cover for  e.g. existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment  circumstances.
Ms M said she had existing means at her disposal  more  than six months sick pay 
she couldve used to meet  her repayments. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and wouldve  likely  done so for up to 12 months per claim 
(Ive assumed  12 months because this is typical  of the benefit period of most policies 
sold in the market around this time.) Ms M couldve then used her sick pay to take 
care of other ongoing expenditure. And as I said earlier, Ms M chose to take the 
cover out so she must have had some  interest in the protection  rather than wanting 
to solely  rely on her existing provision. Im mindful too that Ms M said she didnt  have 
any savings to fall back on.
So I still think Ms M wouldve  found the policy  useful and it wouldve helped her meet  
her loan payments  at what would likely be a difficult time. 
Its not clear Ms M was told the exact cost of the cover, but at under £3 a month it 
was in my view relatively low in its cost. And in any event it appears to have been  
affordable.
So, I think Ms M had some good reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her; 
she was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions could have  proved useful to her should the insured  risks have become a reality.
I can see Ms M says that she got full sick pay  which PCUL knew was the case  and so 
the PPI wasnt needed.  She says PCUL shouldve  explained this but they didnt.
Ive said that this wasnt an advised  sale  so PCUL didnt have to ask about  or understand 
Ms Ms circumstances or demands and needs. This was also a postal  sale,  so in any event 
there wasnt an opportunity for a discussion about the policy. PCUL  provided information 
only and it was for Ms M herself  to weigh things up and decide if PPI was right for. As Ive 
said above, the PPI wouldve paid out alongside  Ms Ms sick pay, so its not the case  that the 
existence of sick pay in and of itself made  the policy inappropriate or wrong for her.
As Ive also already said, Ms M chose  to take out PPI. And in doing  so she understood what  
her sick pay was. Ive concluded  that PCUL might not have given her all of the information 
she needed, but given the information she was given - including  how the policy was 
described in the application - I dont think the policy operated significantly differently from 
what she expected.  
Ref: DRN78874454conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Ms M would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what she thought he was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time, notwithstanding  the employment benefits shed have received. And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that Ms M would have taken out the 
policy in any event. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7887445