K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Zenith Insurance plc unfairly  turned down  a claim on his
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy.
background
Mr C made  a claim on his policy in March 2018. The timing chain on his car had failed, which
then caused further damage to other parts of the car.
Zenith appointed  an engineer to look at the car. The engineer said the timing chain had
stretched due to wear  and tear. Because of this, Zenith said the chain had failed due to wear 
and tear, so the car hadnt suffered a mechanical  breakdown as defined in the policy, and 
turned down Mr Cs claim.
Mr C was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He was told by the
cars manufacturer that the timing chain was supposed  to last the lifetime of the car, and so
didnt think it was fair for Zenith to decline the claim because of wear and tear. He had also
done some  online research and found  that there were known issues  with the engines used in
his type of car.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 September  2019 where I said:
The terms of the policy define breakdown as:
the sudden and unexpected failure  of a Component arising from any permanent  mechanical
or electrical  defect, (for a reason  other  than Wear and Tear, normal  deterioration or
negligence) causing a sudden stoppage of its function, necessitating immediate repair or
replacement of the Component before normal operation can be resumed.
Both Mr C and Zenith are in agreement that the timing chain has failed and this is also
detailed in the engineers  report. Considering the definition  above, Im satisfied the failure of
the timing chain would be considered a breakdown. I accept the timing chain has stretched
rather than broken, but I still think this caused  a sudden stoppage of its function,
necessitating immediate  repair  before  the car could function properly. Mr C has also
provided a detailed account  of what happened, explaining that he noticed something was
wrong as his car wouldnt start. So Im persuaded by what  hes said that the failure  was
sudden.
The policy terms define wear and tear as:
damage to Components which have  reached the end of their normal  effective working  lives
because of gradual reduction in operating performance.
I appreciate Zenith has placed weight on the engineers report, which  states that the failure
is due to wear and tear. Zenith has also provided a detailed description of how a timing  chain
would stretch and why it doesnt think its responsible for paying  Mr Cs claim. However I
think the key word to consider in Zenith definition of wear  and tear is normal. While the
moving parts of a car will wear over time,  I think its only fair and reasonable for Zenith to rely
on the exclusion for wear  and tear when the part has reached the end of its normal working
life. So Ive considered whether I think its fair for Zenith to apply this term in the 
circumstances of this particular case.
Ref: DRN77097292The manufacturing garage has provided  information  confirming that whilst its difficult  to put
a timeframe on the working  life of a timing  chain, and that these  may vary, timing chains
generally need to be replaced  once a car has driven  around  120,000 miles. Mr Cs car failed
at around 88,000 miles and so the timing chain appears to have broken sooner than 
expected. As the timing chain  appears to have  not reached the end of its normal working  life,
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to apply the exclusion here due to wear and tear.
As Zenith rejected Mr Cs claim,  he paid for the repairs himself, which  cost him £2,582. So I
think the fair thing to do in the circumstances  is for Zenith to reimburse the costs Mr C 
incurred in repairing  the damage  caused  by the failure of the timing  chain  amounting
to £2,582, minus  any excesses on the policy. I also think  Zenith  should pay interest at a rate
of 8% simple per year from the date Mr C paid for the repairs  to the date it makes  payment,
due to the time hes been without the money.
Zenith has responded to say it disagrees with the decision.  In summary, it asked where the 
assertion comes from that timing chains generally  need to be replaced once a car has driven 
around 120,000 miles. As such, it has asked for a further review of Mr Cs complaint. Mr C 
initially accepted  the decision. He also said that the situation had caused him a great deal of 
stress and has provided a link to an online  review hed completed  explaining this. As such, 
Ive reviewed the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
I can see Zenith suggested speaking with me before I issue  my decision. Whilst I can 
understand why it may want this, its my role to consider all of the information  and 
circumstances before making  a final decision. Here,  Im satisfied that I have  enough 
information to do this without needing to speak with Zenith.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that a manufacturing garage  had provided  information 
confirming that whilst  its difficult  to put a timeframe  on the working life of a timing  chain, and 
that these may vary, timing chains  generally  need  to be replaced once a car has driven  
around 120,000 miles. Given  that Mr Cs car failed at around 88,000  miles,  I concluded  that 
the timing chain appeared to have  broken  sooner than expected. Zenith also hasnt provided 
evidence which persuades me the chain has reached the end of its normal  working  life. 
Zenith asked for clarification on where the information was received. But as outlined  above, 
this was already  included  in my provisional  decision. Its important to note that I dont 
disagree that the timing chain was worn,  as outlined in the engineers  report. But as 
mentioned above,  this seems to have happened prematurely. So, I dont think  its fair to 
apply the exclusion  for wear and tear here for the reasons given above.
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with Zeniths actions and would like compensation for the 
distress this has caused. When I reviewed the case,  the redress  I set out puts Mr C back  in 
the position he wouldve been in had Zenith  not declined his claim.  Ive also considered the 
impact this has had on Mr C and Im not persuaded that Zenith needs to do any more than I 
set out in my provisional findings. I therefore see no reason to depart  from them.  
Ref: DRN77097293So, in summary,  I think the fair thing to do in the circumstances  is for Zenith to reimburse  the 
costs Mr C incurred in repairing the damage  caused  by the failure  of the timing  chain  
amounting to £2,582, minus any excesses on the policy. I also think Zenith should pay 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr C paid for the repairs to the date it 
makes payment, due to the time hes been  without  the money.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Zenith  Insurance plc 
to:
pay Mr C £2,582 for the repairs to his car, less any excesses on the policy,  and;
add interest at the rate of 8% simple per year to the above amount from the date he 
paid for the repairs until the date of settlement*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Zenith Insurance plc to take off tax from this interest.
Zenith Insurance  plc must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN7709729