K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he couldnt get a new interest  rate deal on his mortgage with 
Landmark Mortgages Limited.
background
Mr H had a mortgage  with Northern Rock, which was transferred to Landmark in 2016. The 
mortgage was redeemed in 2018,  after Landmark  decided to repay the remaining balance 
and close Mr Hs account.
Mr H says Landmark (and its predecessor) didnt offer him any new interest rate deals  so 
he was stuck on its standard variable rate (SVR) for years,  which was higher than rates on 
offer elsewhere. And he says he was trapped  a mortgage prisoner  as his circumstances 
meant he couldnt remortgage  elsewhere. In turn he says these high mortgage payments put 
him under strain during  an already  difficult time. 
Mr H doesnt think Landmark  acted fairly   and wants it to repay him the amount  he 
considers he overpaid in interest over the years. Hes also unhappy that Landmark settled 
his mortgage balance and closed the account  which he says he didnt want. And he says 
Landmark unfairly declined his request to send correspondence in Welsh.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Hs complaint, but she didnt think Landmark had done 
anything wrong. In summary,  she said:
Landmark is a closed  book lender  in other words, it doesnt offer new interest 
rates to its customers. That was a decision for Landmark to make,  and she thought  it 
was treating Mr H the same way it treated all of its customers. 
Mr H was unhappy that hed had no say in which company his mortgage had been 
transferred to by Northern  Rock, but again she thought that was a decision it had 
been entitled to make.
She didnt think Landmark  had acted  unfairly in redeeming  the account,  particularly 
as Mr H had set out an intention to continue  raising  complaints unless it paid him 
£25,000.
Landmark had said it couldnt send correspondence in Welsh, and she didnt think  
this was something it was required  to do. In any case, there was no suggestion  that 
Mr H couldnt understand the correspondence in English,  which had been 
satisfactory in the past.
As Mr H didnt  accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I have some 
considerable sympathy for the position Mr H was in, Ive not found  that Landmark  did 
anything wrong. Ill explain why.
The unavailability of a new interest rate product
Ref: DRN76729222Mr Hs main concern is that he couldnt  get a new interest rate product  when  his last deal 
expired (some years ago). Lenders  arent  bound to offer these by any rules  or regulations 
(or, generally speaking,  the mortgage  contracts  themselves). But Mr H would reasonably 
have expected some options to have been  available, as is common  across the market.
Unfortunately such options  havent  been available to Mr H since his mortgage was 
transferred, following Northern Rocks collapse.  Before the mortgage moved to Landmark,  it 
was with a government-owned lender that couldnt  offer any new rates. I cant consider that 
as part of this complaint,  where Im only looking at the actions of Landmark. But I would 
reiterate our investigators comments that decisions about the sale of its mortgage book 
wouldve been a matter for the previous lender to decide, and not something  that Mr H ought 
reasonably to have  had any influence  over.
Landmark wasnt prevented from offering new rates, but has chosen not to. Thats a decision 
its entitled to make.  It doesnt have new rates for any of its borrowers  so it wasnt  treating 
Mr H any differently from any of its other  customers.  All of its customers  had to pay interest 
at the SVR (or at best a slightly discounted rate for long-standing customers, like Mr H). That 
rate wasnt  out of line with comparable rates across the market. I can see that Landmark 
kept Mr H informed of the interest rate that applied, as Id expect. And it wasnt down  to 
anything Landmark  did that meant Mr H was unable to seek a new mortgage deal 
elsewhere. 
I can see how the situation wouldve felt unfair to Mr H. Through circumstances entirely out 
of his control, he ended  up with a mortgage with a closed  book  lender. That, coupled with 
changes to his own circumstances  over the years, meant things were harder than they 
otherwise mightve  been for him. I note he didnt  miss any payments during that time in spite  
of those difficulties   so he was doing all he could to facilitate a better deal when one arose.  
But while I do sympathise  with the position he was in, for the reasons Ive explained  I cant  
say that Landmark did anything wrong. 
The redemption of the mortgage
In settlement  of a previous  complaint,  Landmark  offered to repay Mr Hs outstanding  
mortgage balance  (of around £700). Mr H rejected this. But Landmark went ahead,  crediting 
the account and redeeming the mortgage.  Landmark says it decided to do this after Mr H 
said he intended to keep complaining to take up its time,  unless it paid him £25,000. 
I dont think I can fairly  say Landmark  did anything wrong here. Evidently the relationship  
between the two parties had broken down to such an extent that it made sense to bring it to 
an end. Landmark  did so in such a way that Mr H suffered no financial loss. I appreciate  
Mr Hs comments  that keeping  the mortgage  running would  help him improve his credit  
score. It may have done. But, in all the circumstances, I dont  think thats enough  to say that 
Landmark ought not to have closed the account.  
Mr H is also concerned that Landmark deleted its records  of the account after it was 
redeemed. He says it must be required to keep records  for a certain amount of time.  This 
has meant hes struggled to discuss the account when calling. There are requirements  for 
record-keeping, which vary depending on the nature of the record  so I wont set them  all 
out in detail here. But I dont think Landmark has deleted its records  (as its been able to 
supply us with information about the account). Importantly here, there  are no requirements 
as to how lenders  utilise such  records, to the extent that I could  say Landmark has made  an 
Ref: DRN76729223error in failing to provide its front-line staff with details of Mr Hs closed mortgage  account. I 
cant see that this has stopped him fulfilling any particular request.
The request  to correspond in Welsh
Mr H is unhappy that Landmark wouldnt correspond with him in Welsh rather than English. 
This appears  to have  been, at best, a preference rather  than a requirement  given that hes 
communicated extensively  with Landmark  and our service in English. So I dont think 
Landmark acted  unfairly  in declining the request, given the likely cost and effort  involved in 
doing so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7672922