K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr M says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds hasnt  been able to provide  any original  paperwork showing how the PPI was sold 
to Mr M. I dont  think this is surprising given how long ago the PPI was sold to Mr M. For 
the same reason,  I wouldnt expect Mr Ms recollection of the sale to be that detailed 
either. Ive thought  about what Mr M has said in this regard. But overall, I just dont think 
theres enough evidence to say that Lloyds didnt  give Mr M a choice  I think its most 
likely that Lloyds  made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Ive thought about what  Mr M has said  that he 
was self-employed and that it wouldve therefore been harder for him, compared  to an 
employed person,  to register  as unemployed because he wouldve  needed,  hes said,  to 
have winded  down  his business and cease trading to do this. But I dont think it was 
materially harder for a self-employed person to claim  under the policy  than an employed 
person. Mr M needed to register as unemployed to claim  but I dont think  that was 
unreasonable or onerous.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it could have been  useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN76907952Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But for the reasons explained above,  these  
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7690795