K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains about what happened  when she tried to report a problem to British Gas 
Insurance Limited (BGI).  Mrs Ps daughter, Ms Q, has brought this complaint on her behalf.
background 
Ms Q said that Mrs P is in her mid-nineties. She lives alone  and independently.  She has BGI 
home emergency cover for her boiler.  This was taken out to allay family fears  about  whether 
she would  always have  hot water and heating  at her property. 
Ms Q told us that Mrs Ps heating and hot water failed in the cold snap in early  March 2018. 
Ms Q said she tried to ring BGI for help, but all of the BGI emergency numbers, help lines 
and call centres ceased to function  at that time,  and failed their customers  when  they were 
most needed. Ms Q said that she rang all day, but only managed to get through once, and 
then was cut off. Ms Q said that Mrs Ps family ended up getting help for Mrs P from a local 
plumber who was able to come out immediately. Shed only been able to get an appointment 
with BGI for a week later.  BGI rang four weeks later to check  if Mrs P had heat and hot 
water.
Ms Q complained to BGI on behalf  of Mrs P, but she said that BGI just paid Mrs P £140 as a 
gesture of goodwill and closed her case.  She felt that it shouldve  done much better, and 
should do much better in future. Ms Q raised  a number of questions  about BGIs 
preparedness for similar  events in future.  
Ms Q said that her mother  and all of her close family  were  affected by BGIs failure. They 
had to quickly find alternative heating in the house.  Ms Q said that Mrs P was only just out of 
hospital when  this boiler breakdown happened, and remained unwell. She also said that 
Mrs P was at risk of falling, which meant  that the only alternative heating that theyd been 
able to get increased the risks to her. Family had to stay in the property to look after her.
Ms Q told us that the family found  a local plumber who was able to fix the immediate 
problem. He visited within an hour of their call and only charged £30 for the job. That 
plumber also identified  a number of other issues in the home,  which ought to have been 
picked up and rectified as part of a service under Mrs Ps existing policy.  BGI engineers later 
visited and fixed these  problems.
BGI told us that priority visits can be booked online,  but emergency  visits for vulnerable  
customers, which Mrs P would qualify for, cant be booked online.  And BGI said it had been 
forced to close some  call centres because  of the weather,  which in turn put extra  pressure 
on phone  lines, and they crashed. Thats why Ms Q wasnt able to get through.  
BGI has provided feedback to the two engineers previously involved  in carrying out servicing 
to Mrs Ps home. It visited on 8 March to do some urgent work, and then again on 30 March  
to complete the outstanding jobs that Mrs Ps own plumber had identified.
BGI at first offered £80 in compensation,  but it has since increased  its offer of compensation  
to £140. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He noted that BGI had offered £140 in total, which 
seemed to cover compensation and the invoice that Mrs P provided for work done.  But he 
thought that BGI should pay £75.00 more, because  its supposed  to prioritise  vulnerable 
Ref: DRN71878112customers, and Ms Q wasnt able to get in touch  with BGI at all to get an emergency 
appointment. He said that there  must be a concern about what wouldve happened  if Mrs P 
hadnt had the support of her family.
Our investigator noted that BGI hadnt outlined  what would  happen  in the future  if similar 
weather reoccurred, and he invited BGI to comment on that. He also invited BGI to comment 
on why some of the problems Mrs Ps own plumber had identified  hadnt been picked up in 
previous engineer visits.
BGI didnt  agree  with that. It didnt comment further  on the issues that our investigator 
raised. It said that its settlement was fair. It wanted to point out that the third party  who had 
attended couldnt go out in-day or quickly. It couldnt control how busy its phone lines were, 
and several roads around the nation  were unsafe at the time, so its engineers  and third 
parties all struggled to reach customers. BGI said it didnt feel it could be held responsible for 
Mrs P being  without heat and hot water. It thought that it had fairly compensated her.
Because one of the parties didnt agree with the assessment of our investigator,  this case 
was passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
BGI has pointed out that extreme weather conditions  were causing a number  of serious 
problems at the time when Mrs Ps boiler  broke  down. I think  its reasonable for BGI to say 
that its resources would be stretched during this time. But I think its also fair to note that BGI 
is providing insurance for home emergencies. The boiler breakdown cover that it provides 
will always  be subject  to far more  demand during especially cold weather. And Ms Q has told 
us that Mrs P has this insurance so that she and her family have some reassurance  that her 
heating will stay on. 
Mrs P wasnt  able to get the emergency  appointment  that her age and health would suggest  
was justified. Her family were only able to book  an appointment which was a week  away.  
And BGI hasnt commented, despite  our invitation to do so, on whether this problem with 
accessing BGIs priority service for vulnerable customers is likely to recur in future.  I think 
that BGI has provided Mrs P with poor service in this regard.  
BGI has suggested that any third party that Mrs P contacted as an alternative would also 
have been affected by the same problems  as it was. But it appears as if Mrs Ps family  
actually managed to get a local plumber to come  out within  an hour of being contacted. Ive 
no hesitation in saying  that BGI should  cover  the very small amount that Mrs P was charged 
for that work  in its payment of compensation.
Mrs Ps own plumber noted a number of problems with Mrs Ps heating  system, which  he 
said shouldve been picked up earlier. Our investigator invited  BGI to comment on why these 
issues had been  missed previously, but BGI hasnt done that either. I think  that again it 
wouldve been better if Mrs P had been given some  reassurance  on this, and in particular if 
her family had been reassured that future  work wouldnt  be missed, including  in areas of the 
house that Mrs Ps health means she cant access.  
Ref: DRN71878113I agree  with our investigator, that the £140 which BGI has offered Mrs P isnt quite enough to 
make up for whats gone wrong here. I appreciate  the reasons why BGI says the problem 
occurred, but I dont think that takes  away from the fact that there appears  to have been a 
risk of harm to Mrs P, if her family hadnt  been in a position to support her when  her heat and 
hot water  went off. Thats exactly the risk that the family have told us Mrs P pays  her 
premiums to avoid. Fortunately, her family  were  able to help her, and no harm did come to 
Mrs P.
I think that the payment of an additional  £75 which our investigator  suggested  provides  a 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. That makes a total payment of £215.  Thats  in line 
with what I wouldve awarded in this case,  if this suggestion had not already  been  made.  
Ill provide in my decision that BGI can include  in that amount any compensation it has 
already paid to Mrs P for this complaint,  including  money it has paid to cover her local 
plumbers invoice.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs P a total of £215 in 
compensation for this complaint. It can include in that amount any money it has already paid 
her for this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7187811