K821x#15complaint
Mr J is seeking to recover £2,176 from Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus), which he lost as the result  of a third-party scam. 
Cashplus says it is not liable for the loss because Mr J unwittingly authorised the payments 
himself  and it could not reasonably have  done more to try to recoup the money  from the 
receiving account. 
background
In May 2018  Mr J was searching online for flights for him and his family  to go on holiday. He 
found a website that looked legitimate and corresponded with them over the phone and 
email. He agreed flights and travel  plans with them which came to a total of £2,176, which  he 
sent via faster payment.  
Unfortunately, Mr J discovered that he had fallen victim to a scam when he called the airlines 
to confirm his flights  and was told that the booking reference he was provided  did not exist. 
He then was unable to contact the purported travel company, so he got in touch with 
Cashplus and Action Fraud straight away. 
Cashplus said the payment had been  correctly authenticated using a username, password 
and 8-digit pass phrase.  They  said Mr J hadnt disputed  that he authorised  the transaction   
and the transaction wasnt flagged as unusual so they hadnt needed to contact Mr J before 
allowing the payment to go through. On hearing that Mr J had been a victim  of a scam, 
Cashplus contacted  the beneficiary  bank but it had confirmed there were no funds  remaining  
in the account.  So Cashplus declined to refund  the transaction as it disagreed that there  was 
any error.
Mr J was not happy with this answer,  so he contacted our service.  An investigator reviewed 
the complaint  and recommended  that it be upheld. They felt that the payment was unusual 
and out of character for Mr Js account. So they thought Cashplus should have got in touch 
with Mr J to find out about the nature of the payment and ask further probing questions. They  
felt that if Cashplus  had done  this, the scam would have become apparent and the payment 
could have been prevented. They said this because it would be unusual for a legitimate 
travel company to ask for a faster payment  rather than a card payment; and because  the 
cost Mr J was quoted for numerous flights and passengers  did seem strangely low  both of 
which are common in these types  of scams.  
Cashplus didnt agree for much the same  reasons as they had outlined previously. It didnt 
accept that the payment was unusual  or out of character for Mr J, and it didnt think  they 
could have prevented the payment if they had spoken to him. Because they didnt agree, it 
came to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021  to explain why I thought Mr Js complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. 
Ref: DRN79997492Neither Cashplus nor Mr J provided any further information or comment,  so I remain  of the 
opinion this complaint should not be upheld, Ill explain why. 
Theres no question in my mind that that Mr J has been the victim of a sophisticated  and 
cruel fraud. I am very sorry to hear about the circumstances he has found himself in. But 
the question  that I must consider  here is the extent  to which  Cashplus can be considered 
liable for his loss.
It is not in dispute  that Mr J authorised  the scam payment himself.  He was duped  by the 
fraudster into believing  he was sending the funds for flights. And so I accept that the 
payment was authorised even though Mr J was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He 
logged into his online banking  using  his security details to request the payment  be 
processed. So, although he did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017,  Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time, I consider 
Cashplus should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual transactions  or other signs  
that might indicate  that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other  things). 
This is particularly so given the increase  in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally  more  familiar  with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Cashplus should have been on the look-out  
for unusual  and out of character transactions. But I dont agree with the investigator and Im 
not satisfied that the activity that took place on Mr Js account during the scam was 
sufficiently unusual and out of character  to have put Cashplus on notice that he was at risk 
of fraud. Ill explain why.
Our investigator felt the transaction looked out of character as Mr J had not frequently  
used his Cashplus account and had not made  a payment this large  before  the nearest  in 
value being around £1000. When combining this with the fact the payment was going to a 
new payee, they felt the transaction was out of character for Mr J. But I dont agree with 
out investigator that this transaction was so unusual and out of character that it should  
have flagged on Cashplus fraud monitoring systems. Whilst I appreciate  the value of the 
payment is not insignificant here,  I dont consider that the total value of the payment in 
itself enough to be an indicator of fraud, warranting further action from Cashplus.  I think it 
is also worth  noting that he still had available balance on his account after this transaction  
was made.  
Ref: DRN79997493And so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say there was anything about  
this payment that wouldve  stood out and given Cashplus a reasonable basis for 
suspecting that Mr J was being defrauded or that he was at risk of financial harm. For this 
reason, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Cashplus  liable for Mr Js loss  the 
fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves. 
According to its notes, Mr J contacted Cashplus  on 17 May 2018 after he became aware 
that hed been the victim  of a scam   two days after he had authorised  the payment. From 
reviewing Cashplus notes  it appears they contacted the beneficiary bank on the 23 May 
and an indemnity was raised, though they never received a response. Id have expected  
Cashplus to have contacted the beneficiary bank account sooner, certainly on the 17 May 
as Mr J had called in the morning. Had they done  so, the account  balance in the receiving 
account would have been £1956.82. When they did contact the receiving bank on the 23 
May, the account  balance was £1767. When they contacted  the receiving bank, it appears 
they raised an indemnity but despite chasing  them multiple times they did not hear back  
from the receiving bank. The receiving account was closed with a zero balance  in August 
2018. So whilst I think Cashplus should have  got in touch with the receiving bank sooner  
I cannot say this would have made a difference as the receiving bank didnt respond to 
their numerous communication attempts. 
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Cashplus.  So, contacting the beneficiary  bank to try 
and retrieve the money  was all Cashplus could do to help Mr J at that stage. And so, I dont 
think Cashplus has treated Mr J unfairly  here either.  
While I appreciate Mr Js been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Cashplus decision 
to not to refund him the losses, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, is fair and 
reasonable. It followed Mr Js instruction to make the payment and I havent seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And I think it did all it could to try and recover Mr Js 
funds when notified of the scam.  
I want to stress that I feel considerable  sympathy for what  Mr J has been through here. But 
unfortunately, whilst  Im sorry to have  to disappoint  him, Im not persuaded that this was a 
consequence of any specific  failing on the part of Cashplus. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2021.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999749