K822xcomplaint
Mr Rs unhappy that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) rejected his section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  claim for a refund  of money paid for hotel accommodation 
abroad.
background 
Mr R says he paid £6,584.22 to a hotel  for holiday accommodation. He says a 
misrepresentation occurred as the hotel didnt tell him there was considerable building work 
going on around it, causing  deafening noise and dust which  seriously affected the hotel 
facilities available for long periods of the day. Hed also specifically asked to be in a quiet 
part of the hotel for health reasons but even  then the hotel didnt mention the building works.  
Had he known of these  issues  he wouldnt  have booked. He hasnt accepted the hotels offer 
of a 30% discount  if he books to go there again next year.  
Barclays said in its final response that Mr R didnt have a valid claim under section 75 
because all the facilities Mr R said he couldnt use at the hotel werent listed  as part of the 
booking. And it was hard to prove a verbal  misrepresentation. But it empathised  with the 
poor holiday experience  hed had. And as a gesture of goodwill itd credited  £250 to his 
account. It also thought the hotels offer was fair.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Its apparent from the videos Mr R has sent in that the noise of the nearby building  
work is quite excessive and uncomfortable.  She can understand why Mr R says this 
ruined his holiday and how he wasnt able to use the hotels outdoor facilities or enjoy  
a quiet and relaxing time as hed been  promised. 
The facilities may not have been listed on the booking but they are stated on the 
hotels website. And any customer booking the hotel  would  expect all the facilities  on 
the website to be available to use. Relaxation was important for Mr R due to his 
health. But the noise and dust meant  he wasnt able to do so.
Mr R says he and his family went out of the hotel  for lunch due to the noise and dust. 
But as he had half board accommodation  he mightve done this anyway.  And as his 
children needed  dinner at 5pm they couldnt  have  had this in the hotel as it started 
serving dinner  at 6.30pm.
Although the building work was outside  the hotel  it affected Mr Rs enjoyment of his 
holiday. And if hed been told about it its plausible he wouldnt have booked the 
accommodation. There has been a misrepresentation for which  Barclays  is equally 
liable under section 75.
The hotels offer of a 30% discount  on a future  booking isnt enough to compensate 
Mr R and he may not wish to go back to the hotel. Mr R and his family  were provided 
with some meals, and could enjoy  some hotel facilities such  as when the noise 
stopped in the evenings. So, its reasonable for Barclays to pay Mr R 20% of his hotel 
costs less the £250 its already paid.  It should recalculate his credit card account as if 
his payment to the hotel in March  2018  had been  reduced by £1,316.84 and refund 
any interest and charges he has overpaid  as a result.
Ref: DRN78792752Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  Hes said he wants 30% back. 
As work started at 8am he couldnt  stay in and his young child couldnt  nap during  the day. 
And the family  had to eat outside of the hotel which cost him more. His holiday was ruined.
Barclays has said it agrees with the investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have  provided detailed submissions  in this complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. Mr R makes his 
complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which in certain circumstances 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim  against  the supplier of a service or the provider of 
credit, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
To be able to uphold  Mr Rs complaint I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the hotel.
In this case I think on balance that there has been a misrepresentation and most likely a 
breach of contract as well. Let me explain why.
Mr R had been to this hotel before and he wouldve been aware of the facilities  it offered 
from that visit and also from its website which listed them. As he was recovering from health 
problems he also phoned the hotel asking  to be in a quiet part of it. 
The hotel didnt  mention the nearby building work  or the fact that the use of some  hotel 
facilities might be affected either  on its website  or about the works and noise when Mr R 
phoned and specifically asked for a quiet room. Consequently  I think  on balance  that the 
hotel misrepresented what would actually be available to Mr R. And had it not done so I think 
its more likely Mr R wouldnt have booked the hotel, than not. Not least as he was 
recovering from serious health issues and needed a quiet relaxing location  to aid his 
recovery.
Barclays has said that there wasnt a misrepresentation as the hotel facilities  werent listed  in 
the booking. But I dont agree. I think the availability of the facilities  listed on the website was 
likely incorporated and implied into the contract  Mr R had with the hotel. I also think that 
given Mr Rs phone conversation with the hotel, when he was assured hed have a quiet  
room, its also likely  that the provision of a quiet room was also an implied term of the 
contract. And as all these facilities and a quiet  room werent provided its likely a breach of 
contract also occurred.
As a result I think Barclays is equally liable for the hotels misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract and it shouldve accepted Mr Rs section  75 claim.
Mr Rs enjoyment  of the holiday was clearly  affected. Our investigator recommended that 
Barclays should pay Mr R 20% of his hotel costs,  which amounted to £1,316.84, less the 
£250 its already  paid him. Mr R says this isnt enough and he would like 30%. 
Ref: DRN78792753Taking everything into account  I think that the investigators recommendation is fair. The 
noise and lack of availability of hotel facilities didnt stop Mr R having use of the hotel and 
some facilities or enjoying much of his holiday. The building works occurred during the day 
but not in the evening or at night. Mr R also had use of the internal hotel facilities, his 
bedroom and dining arrangements. He also was in the resort  and could enjoy going  out. I 
think a repayment  of 20% of the hotel  cost reasonably reflects  all of this. And I dont think  I 
can fairly ask Barclays to pay back anything more.
Mr R also suggests he had to pay extra to feed his family but Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably require Barclays to pay anything towards this given the particular requirements of 
his young children and the fact he wouldve likely gone out to eat anyway as he was on a 
half board  arrangement.
The hotel has offered Mr R a discount  on any future booking. But Mr R understandably says 
he has no intention of going there  again.  So, I dont think  I can take this offer into account 
when assessing  whats fair redress in this case.
I also note Barclays has accepted the investigators recommendations.
Overall I think  the investigators recommendations are a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint. And I dont see any compelling  reason  to change the proposed  outcome.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I require Barclays  Bank UK Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard):
1.To pay Mr R £1,066.84; and 
2.To recalculate Mr Rs credit card account as if his payments to the hotel in 
March 2018 had been reduced by £1,316.84 and refund any interest and charges 
hes overpaid as a result.
Barclays must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on these sums from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7879275