K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B says B. S. Marson & Sons  Ltd (BSM) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Background
In 2005, Mrs B bought  a monthly  premium  PPI policy from BSM in connection with a 
hire purchase (HP) agreement for a car.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mrs Bs mis-sale  complaint should  be upheld.  In 
their view, BSM hadnt done enough to show Mrs B had agreed to take out the PPI.
BSM didnt  agree, so the complaint came  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account  in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Ive seen some paperwork from the sale of the PPI, provided by both BSM and Mrs B, 
and which  has been helpful. Of course its still difficult to say for sure what happened at the 
time of the sale, so Ive decided what I thinks most likely to have happened,  taking into 
account this evidence and the parties  comments. 
Having done that, in my view, BSM hasnt done enough to show that Mrs B agreed to buy 
the PPI. So, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
On the one hand, BSM points to page one of Mrs Bs two-page HP agreement  and to her 
demands and needs  statement. I note the HP agreement  shows a printed tick indicating PPI 
was to be added. And the demands and needs  statement shows a tick for life, critical illness 
and sickness cover  with no ticks for any of the other  options  provided, including  the option 
to decline PPI altogether.
But, on the other hand, we have Mrs Bs submissions that, among other things, she didnt  
want PPI and that it was never discussed. Theres also the fact that page two of Mrs Bs HP 
agreements missing. BSMs provided a sample  of what it says Mrs B would have signed but 
I dont know if thats the case, especially since the sample its provided states its only page 
two of a seven-page document (not a two-page  document like the one Mrs B saw). Which 
means I cant fairly say that the samples representative of what  Mrs B would have seen.
I also note that, although  the demands and needs statement shows a tick for a reduced  level 
of PPI cover, Mrs B didnt sign in the corresponding section below that to say shed opted for 
a reduced level of cover. Instead,  she signed to say she didnt wish to purchase PPI at all. If 
that was a mistake  on Mrs Bs part  as BSM claims  Id have expected BSMs adviser to 
have picked up on that at the time and asked her to cancel her signature and re-sign  in the 
correct place. I cant see that any such correction was made.   
Taking everything into account,  I believe theres  sufficient doubt  regarding what Mrs Bs 
intentions were regarding  the PPI to find that she wanted it 
Ref: DRN76541562Ive thought carefully about everything BSMs  said. But, on balance,  Im not persuaded that 
the evidence shows Mrs B chose to take out the PPI. As such, BSM should put things right 
for her.
Putting things right
BSM should put Mr B in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if that hasnt been done  already, and BSM  should:
Pay Mr B the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment, from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BSM can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  BSM  to take off tax from this interest. BSM must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require B.S. Marson & Sons  Ltd to put things right for Mrs B as 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7654156