K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the increased premium  that Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance Limited 
proposed to charge him after a no fault claim. 
background
In August  2017  someone drove into Mr Rs front wall. He claimed on his home insurance 
and was assured  that his no claims discount (NCD)  wouldnt be affected  if Lloyds recovered 
the cost from the drivers motor insurer. Lloyds arranged for the wall to be repaired by a 
contractor. It was decided  that although only part of the wall was knocked down, the whole 
wall needed replacing. Mr R assumed Lloyds would  recover its outlay. When  his policy  came  
up for renewal in May 2018,  Mr R was shocked  to see that his premium had increased by 
over 30%. He decided  to buy a policy elsewhere but was still upset with Lloyds conduct 
towards him.
After making a number  of calls to Lloyds Mr R discovered that it hadnt been successful in 
recovering all of its costs from the drivers  insurer. This was because that insurer said it 
would only pay for the actual damage to part of the wall, not for the whole wall. Because  of 
this shortfall this affected Mr Rs NCD and the premiums were  increased accordingly. Lloyds 
explained that its legal team had advised that it wasnt viable to attempt to recover  the 
balance. It apologised  for the delay and the failures  of communication  and made a payment 
to Mr R of £125, including £25 for telephone  calls.  It also refunded his excess of £100 on the 
basis that it was recovered.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Lloyds had acted reasonably  and he 
couldnt disagree with its legal  opinion.  Mr R was unhappy with that, he felt he had been  put 
in a worse position  by the rebuilding of the wall and considered that the driver was clearly 
100% at fault.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R is upset that his premiums went up by so much, and that the fact of having  an only 
partially recovered claim has affected  his premium with whatever insurer  he uses. I can 
understand that he was shocked to receive his renewal notice when he had been  given to 
believe that his NCD wouldnt be affected if Lloyds recovered the full claim. And he had no 
reason to think it hadnt done so.
.
As for the recovery, as I understand it, Lloyds had initially proposed to repair just the part of 
the wall that was knocked down  but in order to provide a full match of bricks the whole wall 
had to be replaced. This was covered under his policy.  But the drivers insurer  argued that it 
was only liable for the part of the wall that was knocked down. That is the driver was entitled 
to claim under his motor  insurance for the cost he was liable  for but only on an indemnity 
basis  that is only for the part of the wall he had damaged.
I understand that Mr R argues that the whole wall needed replacing. I wont  go onto the legal  
arguments here. Lloyds  assessed. through its legal team that it didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of recovering any more. Mr R may disagree with that, but under the terms of the 
Ref: DRN79864462policy it is ultimately up to Lloyds if it decides  to pursue any recovery. As it stands I think that 
Lloyds has taken appropriate steps to assess the recovery prospects and made a reasoned 
decision so I cant expect  it to take any other action. 
As for the premium increase, Mr Rs NCD was decreased as a result of the claim, and this 
would be standard  practice. He chose not to renew  with Lloyds. But I think  that Lloyds has 
recorded the claim in accordance with the policy terms. So I dont think its likely that Mr R is 
paying any more  than he should be for his home insurance.
I think Lloyds should have let Mr R know it had not made a full recovery. It may not have  
changed the outcome but at least he would have known what to expect. For the delays and 
failure to communicate  and also the trouble Mr R went to in order to get an explanation, 
Lloyds paid £125, to include a payment for calls made. I think  that was reasonable
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7986446