K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs B says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was shown  on the credit agreement as an optional feature with a yes and no 
box to show if Mrs B wanted it. She ticked the yes box. So I think Lloyds  made it clear 
that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what she has said about the low 
level of benefit  provided by the policy. But these points dont change  my decision.  Having 
considered the cost and the benefit  level of the policy,  I still think Mrs B wouldve taken out 
the policy if shed  been given clearer information. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN78986812But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7898681