K821x#15complaint
Ms S says PDL Finance  Limited (PDL) irresponsibly  lent to her
background
I attach below the findings of my provisional decision that was issued on 6 November 2019. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I was partially upholding Ms Ss complaint. I asked 
both parties to respond ahead of my final decision.
Neither party responded with any further points.
my findings
Ive thought about all the available  evidence from the outset, including the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whether to uphold this complaint.
Neither party has raised any further  points, I see no reason to alter the conclusions  I reached 
in my provisional decision of 6 November 2019  and therefore PDL needs to do the following
putting things right
A.refund  all interest and charges Ms S paid on loans 5 and 6. To that it must add 8% 
simple interest a year, from the date Ms S paid them to the date it is applied to the 
outstanding balance on loan 7 as explained  below
B.remove all interest and charges applied to the full outstanding balance  on loan 7, 
then apply all payments received from Ms S for this loan as though they were  against 
the principal sum borrowed. According  to the statement  of account provided this was 
an amount of £226.87.
C.apply the refund calculated in A in respect of loan 5 and 6 to the outstanding principal 
balance on loan 7 calculated at B
D.if the outstanding balance on Loan 7 calculated at C is more  than £800,  it should 
write off any sum above £800 to leave an outstanding principal balance of £800  
maximum. A mutually agreeable repayment  plan should  then be arranged. 
E.remove any entries relating to loan 5 and 6 from Ms Ss credit file.
F.remove any entries relating to loan 7 from Ms Ss credit  file once repayment of the 
outstanding balance has been  repaid.
If the debt relating to loan 7 is still owned  by the third party PDL may consider buying it back 
in order to carry out my requirements A to D. But if it doesnt buy back the debt it should 
come to some agreement directly with the third party  to ensure that the balance sought by 
the third party  from Ms S is reduced to reflect the amount of capital outstanding only.
To be clear Ms S should not be required to repay any more  than the outstanding capital in 
respect of loan 7. And this should  be through a mutually agreeable repayment plan. I would 
remind PDL of its obligations to treat Ms S in a positive  and sympathetic  way
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest.  PDL must give   
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN79376172my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision of 6 November 2019, 
my decision  is that
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ss complaint  and say that PDL 
Finance Limited  should pay Ms S compensation as set out above.
If either  party has anything further to add they should ensure it reaches me by
25 December 2019.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN79376173Copy of my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this means  
that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S could repay  the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should  fairly and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish  whether  Ms S 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
In this instance  our adjudicator thought that loan 4 should not have been given due to the pattern of 
borrowing that had emerged by this point. They believe  that this pattern suggested that Ms S was 
struggling to repay  some  of the previous  loans.  I do not agree that this was the case at this point.  I 
say this because whilst  Ms S had taken  out four loans in less than six months I dont think that this in 
isolation was enough to put PDL on notice that there were issues with Ms Ss ability to maintain 
payments. I am not satisfied  that proportionate checks were carried out for this loan but even had they 
been done I do not think that they would have shown  anything that shouldve prevented PDL agreeing  
to the loan.
Ref: DRN79376174To explain Ms Ss declared income  at the time was £1,325 and it seems as if the amount of 
disposable income  she had at this time was £790. Based on the credit file that Ms Ss representative 
has provided  I cant see any other outstanding short term credit at this point and therefore  the highest 
monthly payment of £270.66 looks broadly manageable.  So I dont uphold this loan.
That said Ive also looked at the overall pattern of PDLs  lending history with Ms S, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point albeit after loan 4 at which  PDL should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say 
this because:
At this point PDL ought  to have  realised  Ms S was not managing to repay  her loans 
sustainably. Ms S had taken  out five loans  within  eight months. So PDL ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms S was having  to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving  in her finances and that Ms Ss indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Ms Ss first loan was for £200 and loan 5 was for £800 this shows a steady  increase in the 
amount that Ms S was borrowing and suggests that Ms S may have been  struggling. At this 
point PDL ought to have  known that Ms S was not likely borrowing  to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 5 onwards  Ms S was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a previous 
one. Shed repaid  her fourth loan on 30 June 2015 and took out a new loan for significantly 
more on the same  day. 
Ms S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed PDL.  Loan 7 was taken  out 
over 13 months after Ms Ss first. And it was again for the larger  amount of £800. Ms S had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to PDL over an extended period.
I note that PDL did gather information about Ms Ss monthly income  and expenditure  each time she 
asked for a loan. But by the time loan 5 was applied  for I think that PDL should  really have taken  a 
step back  and considered  whether it was responsible to continue  to agree credit  to Ms S as the 
pattern by this point suggested that she was borrowing to meet  an ongoing need rather than to meet a 
short term cash  flow problem.
So I think at this point PDL should not have agreed to loan 5 or any further credit until there was 
something to suggest that Ms Ss position  had improved which I cant see in this instance.
Given this I think that Ms S lost out because PDL continued to provide borrowing  from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Ss indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Ms S borrowed was likely to have had 
negative implications  on Ms Ss ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 5, 6 and 7 and PDL should  put things right.
Ref: DRN7937617