K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited (Link) are chasing  him for a debt 
he doesnt owe.
background 
Mr S and his late wife took a loan out together when Mr S had his own business. But when 
the business failed, and Mr S was declared bankrupt,  he says that his wife therefore became 
solely responsible  for paying the loan.  She passed away  in October 2017 and Mr S 
complains that Link have been  harassing  him for payments despite him no longer having 
liability. Hes also upset that they keep addressing letters to his wife and referring  letters to 
the executors  of Mr, rather  than Mrs S.
Link said that they hadnt received any notification of bankruptcy  and thats why theyd  still 
deemed him liable for the debt. They sent Mr S £30 of shopping vouchers as an apology  for 
the mistake theyd made when addressing letters to Mr Ss executor rather  than his wifes.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided  her opinion. She 
noted that Mr S had told Link about his bankruptcy. Notes  on Links  system  identified that 
had happened  and that hed also told them  about  his wifes death. So she thought it was 
reasonable to suggest Link shouldve taken action and shouldnt  have pursued the debt, as 
Mr Ss liability for it ended when he was made  bankrupt. She thought  it was clear that the 
letters hed received would have been  distressing, so she thought  Link should pay Mr S 
£250 to compensate him.
But Link disagreed. They didnt think the information  that Mr S had sent them  demonstrated 
that he was bankrupt but they explained  that, as they now realised this was the case, they 
would stop pursuing him for the debt. But they didnt think  theyd  been  wrong  to pursue him 
for it in the absence  of evidence of his bankruptcy and they therefore  asked  for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S was declared bankrupt in 2006.  His liability for the debt, that Link are now pursuing him 
for, ceased at that time. But as the loan had been  in joint names, his wife was still liable until 
her death  in 2017.
Ref: DRN76966962Link have now accepted that Mr Ss bankruptcy means they are not entitled to pursue the 
debt with him. Theyve explained that theyll no longer contact him. That seems  reasonable. 
Ive seen a copy  of the bankruptcy  order and Ive reviewed Links system notes. I think, given 
the evidence,  that Link were  reasonably  aware of the situation and Im supported in that view 
because they agreed a repayment plan with Mrs S. I dont think  they wouldve done  this if 
they could have held Mr S responsible  for the debt.
Its clear that the correspondence theyve sent has been  misaddressed  and Im sure this will 
have distressed Mr S. The letters pursuing the debt were unnecessary and would  have 
added to this distress and I think, in the circumstances, a payment  of £250 would be 
reasonable compensation.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Link Financial Outsourcing  
Limited to stop pursuing Mr S for this debt or contacting him in relation to it. Link should pay 
Mr S £250  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions have caused 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7696696