K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc wont refund  him for two payments which he says 
he didnt make or authorise.
Background
On 18 July 2018 Mr Gs account was debited  with £1,850. This was for two online payments 
on a cryptocurrency website completed using Mr Gs debit  card details. Mr G says he 
received a text from Barclays  asking  if hed authorised the payments  and he replied no and 
phoned the bank, and then went into a branch, to make sure the payments were  stopped.  
He says Barclays didnt  stop the payments. Later,  when he contacted  the bank to dispute  the 
payments, Barclays refunded them, but then re-debited him without notice.
Barclays said the payments were  made  using Mr Gs mobile device.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the payments  had been carried out from the same IP address  that Mr G used and using one 
of his devices.  And she couldnt see how a third party  wouldve been  able to access Mr Gs 
cryptocurrency account.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the money wasnt in his cryptocurrency account  and that hed 
been defrauded.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was in possession of his debit card when the disputed transactions were  made.  To 
authenticate the payment, a third party would have needed the 16 digit card number, the 
three digit security code from the back of the card and the expiry date. Its not clear how a 
third party would have  obtained this information without Mr Gs consent.
Likewise, the transactions  were carried out on Mr Gs cryptocurrency account. So a third 
party would not only have needed  to know  Mr Gs password, but wouldve had to confirm 
authentication through a text to his mobile phone and an email.
The IP address  used  for the disputed transactions was in the same geographical location  as 
one used previously  by Mr G. And the same as the one he later used to log into Barclays  
online banking. One of the transactions  was carried out using a mobile  phone  and this was 
the same  as the phone  used by Mr G previously on the account.
Mr G told us his card and his phone were  in his possession when the transactions  took 
place. So I think its unlikely a third party was able to use his phone to place a transaction  
and to know the information on his debit card.
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr G authorised these payments.
Ref: DRN79576092Mr G says Barclays contacted him when  the transactions were  made  to check  that they were 
genuine. But neither party has a record of any contact. I wouldnt have expected Barclays  
systems to flag these payments as they were made from an online account in Mr Gs name 
that hed used in the past. And if Mr G had replied no to any text, the payments would not 
have been accepted. So Im not persuaded by Mr Gs testimony on this point.
I can see how Mr G would  have been inconvenienced when Barclays  re-debited  the 
payments while  Mr G was on holiday.  But the banks usual  procedure  is to credit  any 
disputed transactions  while it carries out an investigation and it would have made Mr G 
aware that it would re-debit the amount if it didnt find the transactions  to be fraudulent. So 
I dont find it did anything  wrong when it re-debited his account.
Finally, Mr G says the money isnt in his cryptocurrency account. But this is because  
instructions were received from Mr G to move the funds off of the platform.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7957609