K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr M took out a Total Mortgage  Protection plan with a mortgage  in 2001. The 
plan included accident, sickness and unemployment cover (PPI) for Mr M, as well as life and 
critical illness cover for them both. 
Mrs M and Mr M say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  the PPI. As 
Mrs M and Mr M have  only complained  about the sale of the PPI, thats  all I have  looked  
into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs M and Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs M and Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this. Mrs M 
and Mr M say they didnt  know  it had been added on to their mortgage, but they had to 
sign a separate  section of the mortgage  application  form to say they wanted it. And the 
costs were set out on the mortgage  quote.  So its likely they did know theyd agreed to 
take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M and Mr M so it had to check that it was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr M, as the person covered  by the PPI, wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
As only Mr M was working, if he lost his job or was too sick to work, then I think they 
would have struggled to make  their mortgage  repayments. So I think  the PPI would have  
been useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M and Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M and Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M and Mr M back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M and Mr M now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN75401402my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7540140