K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains Vanquis Bank Limited  is unfairly holding him liable for a debt he is not 
responsible for. He wants the debt cleared and not to be pursued for repayment.
Background
Mr S is a customer  of Vanquis. He opened  a Vanquis card account in 2014. Between  
December 2017  and June 2018 payments  were  made on his account which he says he 
didnt make. This left the account with a balance of approximately £3,200 on which interest  
has continued to accrue.
Mr S says he requested  a new card in November 2017. He was going abroad in December 
2017 and wanted to use his account. He says the card never  arrived  before he left. On his 
return, he discovered a card had arrived in the post.  The letter containing  the card was 
unopened.
Mr S says he didnt see the spending  on his account until a paper statement arrived in     
July 2018. He says he reported his card  the one which  arrived  while  he was abroad  - as 
lost to the police at the beginning of June  2018.
Mr S contacted Vanquis. He wanted  to make  sure he wasnt held liable for the outstanding 
balance. Vanquis  asked Mr S to sign a form giving it permission to investigate fraud. Mr S 
didnt return the form. He says he wasnt happy with the terms of the declaration form and 
thought they were unreasonable, so he didnt sign it.
Vanquis said there was no record of Mr S ringing to request a new card in 2017 or to report 
his card as lost in June  2018. Instead there  was a record of him requesting  a PIN reminder 
in November 2017. And in the absence of him not completing the declaration to investigate 
further it was holding him liable.
  
Mr S brought his complaint to us. An investigator at our service decided  not to uphold the 
complaint. Mr S via his representative disagreed with the outcome they reached and 
provided further points  to consider. The investigator considered those points  but continued 
not to uphold the complaint. In summary, they found:
-When Mr S opened his account,  he was issued with a card. In 2015 he reported the 
card was not working, so a new card was issued. The first card, however, wasnt  
cancelled, so when  it was due to expire, a card was sent in September  2017 to Mr 
Ss address.  Around that time Mr S account  automatically upgraded. Once  payments  
on the account were  made in December 2017, a new card was sent because  of the 
upgrade.
-There wasnt a persuasive  explanation  as to how someone obtained the card that 
was sent in September 2017 or how they knew Mr S PIN, which had never  changed 
since the account was opened.  That person  wouldve  needed an opportunity  to get 
hold of the card and to have remembered or kept a record of the PIN, being as Mr S 
says the PIN was safely stored  away.
-The evidence indicated Mr S hadnt  contacted Vanquis in November 2017 to request 
a new card. Instead it showed a call was made from his mobile number in order  to 
request a PIN reminder in November 2017.
Ref: DRN77173382-The evidence indicated neither the police, nor Mr S contacted Vanquis to report a lost 
card in June 2018. Instead, it showed  Mr S contacted Vanquis at the end of          
July 2018 after receiving the paper statement for June 2018.
-Vanquis sent multiple text messages to Mr Ss mobile during the time the 
transactions took place. The messages state  there was an outstanding balance  and 
reminded Mr S to make payment. If Mr S was unaware of the payments on his 
account up until that point, he wouldve reported  his concerns much  sooner.
-Mr Ss credit  limit increased on three  separate occasions, and on each  occasion  
either an email was sent to Mr Ss email  address  or a letter  was sent to his address 
Vanquis records showed the right postal address for Mr S at the time the 
notifications were  sent. All the increases were automatic, so they werent triggered by 
a request.
-Mr S says he never set his account  to receive  online statements.  But Vanquis 
records indicate his statements  were set to online  in 2015,  meaning they were 
emailed to Mr S at the time he was actively using  his account. Mr S received a paper  
statement for June  2018  because the account had fallen  into arrears and not 
because someone  had made changes to his account.
-The Payment Services Regulations 2009 were relevant  in determining Vanquis 
liability. In summary  and subject to some exceptions the regulations  mean Vanquis 
are liable for payments Mr S didnt  consent  to.
-Mr Ss recollections of what happened are not supported by Vanquis records  of his 
contact. The spend was on the card sent to his address in September 2017  a card 
he denied receiving  - although  his representative  suggests  he may have received it 
and it was stolen  from his car when it was being fixed. But whoever used  the card 
needed to know  Mr S PIN, which according  to him wasnt readily accessible to 
anyone who entered his home.
-On balance, the evidence pointed more  to Mr S allowing someone to use his card. 
That person may have  spent  funds Mr S wouldnt have agreed to. But under the 
Payment Services Regulations this still meant  Mr S consented to the payments. So, 
Vanquis didnt  need  to refund the payments and it can hold Mr S liable for the debt.
-The spend of the card didnt trigger Vanquis into identifying it as unusual  behaviour.  
And on balance, the behaviour wasnt such that Vanquis ought to have  attempted to 
contact Mr S to ensure the spend was genuine.
Mr S has asked  for a final decision  from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been given to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr S 
complaint.
Ref: DRN77173383I acknowledge Mr S version of events  may be true. After all its not possible to know  for 
certain what happened. So, I must base my findings  on what I think  is more likely than not to 
have happened  based on all the evidence Ive available. And that is what  I have done.
-Mr S says he rang Vanquis  in November 2017 to request a replacement card. He 
says this was in readiness for his holiday in December  2017. But I dont think he did 
ring Vanquis to request a new card. 
Vanquis records indicate Mr S rang in November 2017 to request  a PIN reminder. 
Vanquis explained the code recorded for the call is for a PIN reminder  and not 
anything else. It has explained there  are separate codes  for a new card being 
requested or for when  someone speaks to an advisor. The codes are generated 
according to which options  a customer selects on the call. If Mr S requested a new 
card or spoke to an advisor, Im satisfied  a different code wouldve been recorded.
-Vanquis records dont  indicate the police contacted Vanquis or Mr S. Instead  they 
record Mr S phoning  Vanquis  towards the end of July 2018  to report  the payments. 
They also record a call from 2016  in which  Mr S changed his address to where  he 
currently lives. If Mr S rang when he says he did its more  likely that call wouldve 
been automatically recorded, in the same  way his other calls were.
-Mr S says he didnt read the texts Vanquis  sent to him between January to June 
2018. The texts  reveal a large outstanding balance on his account  and a reminder to 
make repayments on time.  His representative says the title of each text reads as 
latest statement available, so without opening each text Mr S wasnt alerted  to the 
spend on his account.
But I find its more likely  Mr S wouldve been  curious  to see what  the texts were 
about, considering  he hadnt  received anything from Vanquis for over a year and 
according to him he was unaware of any account activity. Its possible he thought the 
texts commenced  due to the card sent in December 2017, but Im not persuaded this 
is the most  likely explanation. 
-Mr S says he never received the card sent in September 2017. His representative 
also says just because  the card was sent doesnt prove it was received. His 
representative also suggests Mr S couldve received the card in September  and then 
left it in his car, where it was intercepted.
Im persuaded Mr S did receive the card. And Im satisfied  Mr S made a PIN request 
in November 2017 probably because   he wanted to remind himself of the PIN. If Mr S 
had lost the card sent in September, Id have expected Vanquis to have a record of a 
new card request, but no record  exists to support this scenario.
-Neither the card sent in September 2017,  nor the card sent in December 2017 were  
because of contact  from Mr S or anyone else. The card sent in September was sent 
because the original card issued in 2014 was due to expire.  And the card in 
December was sent following an automatic upgrade. It was only sent after spending 
commenced on the account in December 2017.
Ref: DRN77173384-The credit  limit increases were  not triggered by requests. The increase to £1250 
happened in January  2016, the increase to £2250  happened  in September 2017, and 
the increase to £3000  happened in March  2018. Mr S says he was unaware of the 
increases. But records  indicate  either a letter or email  was sent to him about the 
increases, which he could opt out from. He may not have read the letters or emails, 
but this doesnt mean Vanquis  should  be liable for spending above the original £500 
credit limit.
-Mr Ss representative suggests certain  members of Mr S family couldve obtained 
and used his card. They  say Mr S kept his card in his car, and on one occasion the 
son of a former partner  fixed  the car. That person  may have  found  the card and 
passed it to the former partner of Mr S or one of her children.  The account was 
opened when  Mr S lived with the former  partner.  So, they couldve  retained 
correspondence revealing the PIN.
But the card used to make the transactions was the card Mr S says he never 
received. So, I doubt it was taken from his car  that would require Mr S to 
acknowledge he received the card in September 2017. And that would conflict with 
what hes said about requesting a new card in November 2017 in readiness for his 
holiday in December. Id expect him to have remembered losing the card sent in 
September 2017 and to have mentioned it when he first raised  the complaint.
-The card sent in September 2017  couldve  been intercepted once it had been  posted 
through Mr Ss mailbox. But whoever took the card wouldve needed access to       
Mr Ss post. They wouldnt have known a card was expected, and again they 
wouldve needed to know Mr S PIN. 
The evidence indicates Mr S rang Vanquis for a PIN reminder.  And I doubt he 
wouldve requested  a PIN reminder if he didnt have  a card in his possession which 
he intended to use. He was prompted  to contact  Vanquis  and I think  receiving  the 
card in September 2017 was the prompt.
-Mr S card from another  provider was used abroad during the time some of the 
transactions took place. So, he was likely abroad when the spending  first started on 
the account in December 2017.  But being  abroad  doesnt mean he didnt allow  
someone to use his card, such as a friend or family  member.  Indeed,  I find this is a 
more likely explanation  to account  for what happened.
The spend  on the card was for everyday purchases  and services over seven months.  
And it seems someone did intend to pay for the purchases in view of the repayments 
that were made. This would be a risky enterprise to undertake if the person  using  the 
card didnt have Mr Ss permission, given  Mr S couldve  easily  noticed the spend at 
any time and reported the fraud  to the police, who could then trace  the account used 
to make repayments.
I find the more likely explanation based on what Ive seen is that Mr S allowed 
someone to use his card. Im not satisfied he ordered a new card to use abroad   the 
records dont indicate this. Instead  Im satisfied he received the card in September 
and requested a PIN reminder so that the card could be used.
Ref: DRN77173385The person  using the card may have  spent more than Mr S had agreed  and may 
have taken advantage of his generosity. But under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 Vanquis  arent liable for payments made when Mr S allowed his 
card to be used by someone  else.
-Mr S representative has drawn attention to Mr S not having  accounts with many  of 
the service providers payments were made to. And this may be the case, but again  if 
Mr S had allowed  someone to use his card,  which  I think  is more likely than not, 
Vanquis are not liable for those payments.
-Mr S representative also says the spend  on the account ought to have  triggered  
Vanquis into questioning whether it was legitimate. But I disagree. A PIN reminder  
was requested in November  2017,  which would indicate that a customer wanted to 
use the card. And the spend began at a time when  customers  often do make more 
frequent transactions. As I find Mr S likely gave someone permission to use the card, 
its not evident that he wouldve  said he didnt  recognise the payments if he was 
contacted.
Mr S representative revealed Mr S suffers from a health condition affecting his well-being, 
which I was very sorry to hear about.  I understand hes been concerned about contact from 
Vanquis in relation to the debt on his account, which has worsened how he has been feeling. 
There is no exemption that a firm cannot pursue  repayment just because a complaint is with 
our service.  And we have no power to direct a firm not to seek  repayment unless it is a 
direction in a final decision. But as I find Mr S is liable for the spend on the account, this isnt 
something I am doing.
Vanquis does, however,  have obligations to act with appropriate forbearance and consider  
its customers circumstances when communicating  and arranging how a debt will be repaid. 
Mr S may wish to complain about  Vanquis actions  in communicating  with him about the 
debt, and whether  it has engaged with him appropriately about arranging  a way forward to 
repay his debt, but I have not considered this as part of this decision.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7717338