K820x#14complaint
Mr S makes  a number of complaints about how Lloyds  Bank  PLC dealt  with his overdraft.
background
Mr S says he used his Lloyds overdraft  without problem  until it changed its charging policy.  
He says as a result the cost of using  his overdraft increased and he changed his bank. Mr S 
says he received letters from Lloyds about  the debt and he contacted  it and left messages. 
But Lloyds didnt  respond to them and has now passed the debt to a third party company.
Mr S says he would  like an explanation  into what has happened and compensation for the 
stress in not having his calls returned.
Lloyds upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and says although it has no record  of Mr S calling, it 
apologises for not returning the calls. It has paid Mr S £200  compensation and refunded 
about £48 in overdraft charges as it accepts  it should have closed Mr Ss account earlier. 
Lloyds says it made the overdraft changes in 2017  and wrote to Mr S then but accepts the 
changes cost him about £8 a month  more  than he had previously paid. It has also agreed to 
backdate the default  to when it says it should  have closed the account.
Mr S had already  brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in 
part. The investigator  thought Lloyds had fairly  accepted it hadnt returned the calls but had 
acted fairly  by paying a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator 
thought Lloyds had also acted fairly by refunding charges and backdating the default.  
The investigator thought it was up to Lloyds to decide how it charged for an overdraft  and 
that it was entitled  to ask Mr S to repay  it. The investigator also thought that Lloyds  hadnt  
made a mistake by closing the account  or registering a default  and that Mr S could have 
made a payment into the account.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says he did call into a local branch but he was told to 
contact Lloyds collection department. He says Lloyds dealt with this matter unprofessionally 
and has now sold his debt but could have  waited until this complaint was dealt with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Ss account statements and can see that the last payment into the account 
was in February 2018. So I dont think Lloyds made  a mistake or acted unfairly by asking Mr 
S to pay money into the account  and by deciding to close the account. I think that an 
overdraft is repayable on demand and it ought  to have  been clear to Mr S that Lloyds 
required a payment into the account if it was to remain open.
I appreciate that Mr S then called Lloyds about the account but didnt receive  calls back.  Im 
sure Mr S would have spent some  time trying  to call Lloyds and would have been frustrated 
in those circumstances. But Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly apologised for that and paid 
what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of £200 compensation. I think that award fairly 
reflects the level of Lloyds mistake and the impact it had upon  Mr S.
Ref: DRN76661382Im also satisfied that Lloyds has fairly backdated  the default date and refunded charges to 
that date. I think that will mean  the default  will fall off Mr Ss credit report  earlier.
I appreciate Mr S complains about  Lloyds new overdraft charging policy.  But I find such 
matters are for Lloyds  to make a decision on as I think those are commercial  decisions that a 
business is entitled to make  and not something I can fairly interfere in. I also think  Lloyds told 
Mr S about  those changes in 2017.
Overall I accept Lloyds didnt deal with Mr S as it should but for the reasons Ive explained 
Im satisfied its acted fairly  to put matters  right.  I also think its up to Lloyds to decide if it 
wishes to sell a debt as its done here.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666138