K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that MBNA Limited  broke the terms of an agreed repayment plan by 
selling her debt to a third party  company.  
background
Miss C says she experienced  financial difficulties in 2017 and told MBNA. She says there 
was an agreement in place to repay her debt at £10 a month. But MBNA ended that 
agreement and sold her debt to a third party company I will call P.
MBNA doesnt accept  that there  was agreed  plan in place  and says Miss C couldnt afford a 
plan. It says it tried to help Miss C by waiving interest and fees but says it told her that the 
account would default. It also says under the account terms and conditions  it can sell a debt 
if it wishes. 
Miss C brought  her complaint to us but investigator  didnt think  MBNA had acted unfairly  or 
made a mistake.  She thought MBNA had acted positively and sympathetically by not 
charging fees and interest and had written  to Miss C explaining the position.  The investigator 
thought MBNA was entitled to sell the debt if it wished under  the account  term and 
conditions.
Miss C was unhappy with that view and says her financial and health difficulties were not 
taken into account.  And that she had been  evicted from her home. She also says MBNA 
didnt make P aware  of her difficulties  as it tried to contact  her on numerous  occasions. Miss 
C says this has made her health problems worse and would like the debt written  off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
conclusion as the investigator. I realise  Miss C will be disappointed by my decision.  I also 
appreciate how difficult  the last couple of years  must  have been for her and I recognise  the 
stress she must  have  felt as a result  of the circumstances shes found herself in.
Banks and Building  societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that MBNA from the end of 2017 stopped all interest and charges 
and also refunded some of them. Im also satisfied that MBNA explained in its letters  that the 
account would default. So Im satisfied  MBNA  did act in a positive and sympathetic manner. I 
appreciate Miss C says she thought there was an agreed plan in place but I dont think  that 
was the case  and I think the letters  MBNA sent her accurately explained  the position.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which I think  Miss C wouldve agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied that MBNA is entitled  to sell a debt if it 
wishes. So I dont think it acted unfairly or made  a mistake by doing so here.  I appreciate 
Miss C says MBNA  shouldve  told P about  her financial difficulties. But I can see that MBNA 
says that it did. Miss C hasnt explained why she believes thats not the case. And she may 
have taken that view as P has tried repeatedly to make contact with her. I dont think  thats  
unusual in this type of case where  a business takes over a debt.  But I think  its something  
Miss C will need to take up with P.
Ref: DRN75160702I can see that Miss C is concerned about  how MBNA dealt with an income and expenditure 
form that she sent it. But I make it clear  that I think that was previously dealt with by MBNA 
paying her compensation which I can see Miss C accepted.
Overall whilst I recognise the very difficult position  Miss C is in  I cant  fairly  order  MBNA to 
do anything further  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  I appreciate Miss C would like the 
debt written off but thats something  she will need to raise  with P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7516070