K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) policy sold to Mr and Mrs T 
alongside a mortgage in 1997. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI policy had been mis-sold. But Nationwide had offered to 
pay back some of the commission it received from Mr and Mrs Ts PPI premiums.  Our 
adjudicator thought this was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree  with that view and so the matter  has been passed  to me to make  
a final decision.  I can see that the thrust of their complaint is about the commission  
Nationwide received from their premiums.  But they also raised some issues  around potential 
mis-selling of PPI. With that in mind,  I have considered both the allegation of mis-sale and 
also the issue of commission.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I havent upheld  the complaint with regard to the mis-sale. I also agree with our adjudicator 
that the offer Nationwide made in respect of commission is a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Ill explain  why below.  
The parties agree that Mr and Mrs T bought this cover after they were given a leaflet to 
complete. And Nationwide appeared to accept that. But Ive looked at the mortgage  
application form, which looks as though  it may have been completed in a branch. And I can 
see that PPI is set out on that form. Its possible that PPI could have been sold during a 
meeting between the parties and Ive been  mindful of this when considering  this complaint.  
The first thing Ive considered with regard to the mis-sale is whether Mr and Mrs T would 
have known the PPI policy was optional  and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want  it. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing Mr and Mrs Ts PPI application form. I think the wording is 
sufficiently clear to indicate that they didnt  have to take this policy  out if they didnt  want  it. It 
follows that if the cover was sold during  a meeting, I think its likely the person selling the 
policy would have reflected what was in the papers. In summary, I think  Mr and Mrs T would 
have known they could have refused this cover if they wanted to. 
I dont think this was an advised sale. I say this because  I havent seen anything to suggest  
that Nationwide assessed Mr and Mrs Ts insurance  needs and then advised them  that this 
particular policy met those needs. Even  so, Nationwide still had to give Mr and Mrs T enough 
information about the cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was right for 
them. 
I accept it is possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs T everything  it should  have done 
about the PPI cover.  So the question for me now is whether they would have acted 
differently if theyd been given more or better  information about the PPI. To help me decide  
Ref: DRN79730692what they would have done,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover  And Ive 
also thought about what they told us about their personal circumstances at the time.  
I can see that the policy was set up to cover Mr T only. If hed had to make a claim, their 
mortgage repayments would have been  covered for up to 24 months for each claim. Our 
adjudicator clarified  Mr Ts sick pay arrangements and he would have been received six 
months full pay and six months half pay if he couldnt work. There  was a discrepancy  as to 
the savings Mr and Mrs T had at the time they took the mortgage out. Our adjudicator 
clarified that Mr and Mrs T didnt have  significant  savings they could have used to pay their 
mortgage at the relevant time. So the policy would have paid out for longer than Mr Ts full 
sick pay lasted and in addition to anything he did get. So I think the PPI would have been 
helpful at what  could have been a difficult time financially  if Mr T couldnt work or lost his job.
Mr T told us he was in good health at the time this policy was sold to him. So I dont think  he 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions.  I 
havent seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would  have 
stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
Ive set out above how I think PPI could have been helpful to Mr and Mrs T if Mr T couldnt 
work. And I think they probably  chose  to take this cover out when they applied  for their 
mortgage  so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover at the time. With all of this in mind, 
I dont think more or better information about the PPI policy would have put Mr and Mrs T off 
buying it. I havent upheld the complaint  in respect of the mis-sale. 
I turn now to the issue of commission. I can see from their response to our adjudicator  that 
Mr and Mrs T said they were misled with regard to the commission  that Nationwide  would 
receive. Nationwide has repaid  some of the commission  it received. But Mr and Mrs T 
remain unhappy. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. The 
FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs T paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included  8% per year simple 
interest to compensate  Mr and Mrs T for the time they were  out of pocket. So I think 
Nationwide has done what  the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Ts particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about  the amount of commission and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Nationwide to do anything more.   
Ref: DRN79730693my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint in respect of the alleged  mis-sale. For the reasons above I think 
Nationwide Building  Society has correctly worked out what it needs to pay Mr and Mrs T. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  update  and pay its offer to Mr and Mrs T if it hasnt done  
so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7973069