K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined  a theft claim under 
his mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr L bought a mobile phone from a shop. At the same time, he took out an insurance  policy 
with D&G, which provided cover  for theft and accidental damage to the phone. Several 
weeks later,  he made a claim  when the mobile phone was stolen. Hed reported the theft to 
the police, and D&G didnt dispute that a theft had taken place. But it declined the claim 
because, even though  Mr L had been  able to provide proof  of purchase,  he couldnt tell it the 
phones IMEI number  (this is a unique fifteen  digit number  assigned to all mobile phones).
Mr L told D&G he didnt have the IMEI number as hed bought  the phone  without a SIM card 
and then paid for a separate  pay as you go SIM card. He hadnt  kept the box for the phone 
because he didnt know he would need the IMEI number  to make a claim. He explained he 
wasnt told he would need the IMEI number to make a claim when he bought  the policy and 
he wasnt sent any policy documents.  
He thought D&Gs decision to decline the claim was unfair, and so he complained. But D&G  
maintained its decision,  explaining that without the IMEI number the claim wouldnt proceed, 
as per the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr L complained to this service, but our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that, for a claim to be valid, the policy  required the policyholder to 
provide the IMEI number,  and D&G  had explained  it sent the policy  documents by email  and 
post on the day Mr L had bought the policy.  It was unable to provide a copy of the email,  but 
our investigator was satisfied the policy documents had been  sent and, consequently, she 
was satisfied D&Gs decision to decline the claim was fair.
Mr Ls asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He queries why the policy 
documents werent given to him when he bought the policy and argues that he would have 
kept the IMEI number  safe if hed been told he needed it to make  a claim. He maintains he 
never received an email  with the terms and conditions and has explained hes still paying the 
premiums, even though  he no longer has the phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr L has said hes been paying the premiums  since he made this claim and hes concerned  
because he no longer has the phone. This isnt something I can comment  on as part of this 
complaint, but he should contact D&G to resolve  the issue as soon as possible.
The policy states  that for mobile phones you will need to tell us your products IMEI number 
and Im satisfied that this term is clearly worded and that its reasonable.
Theres no evidence about  what was discussed in store during the sale of the policy, but 
D&Gs explained the terms  and conditions were sent to Mr L by post and email  the same 
Ref: DRN71501232day. Ive seen the file notes recording that the policy documents were  sent by post and email 
on the day of the sale and, based  on those notes, Im satisfied  that they were. Even though 
Mr L says he didnt  receive an email and D&Gs  been unable to provide  a copy  of the email it 
sent, the address details are correct  and Im satisfied its most likely Mr L did receive  the 
documents that were sent by post.
Its possible Mr L didnt read the information  that was sent to him following the sale of the 
policy. But, provided it was sent and that it was reasonably clear and unambiguous (which  
Im satisfied it was), it wouldnt be D&Gs responsibility if hed chosen not to read it. Its also 
possible that Mr L had thrown the box away before he received the policy  documents.  But 
this isnt what he says happened,  and, if it was, I would expect him to have contacted D&G 
as soon as he realised there was a problem, rather than waiting until he needed  to make a 
claim.
I accept Mr L probably would have kept the box if hed known he would need the IMEI 
number to make a claim. But Im satisfied D&G did send the policy  documents  on the day he 
took out the policy and so, while I understand Mr L will be disappointed, Im satisfied the 
decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7150123