K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr J for accident, sickness  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £350 a month towards Mr Js mortgage  
balance and related expenses in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £17.71 a 
month. 
At the time of sale Mr J was employed as a printer. He has said he was entitled to over six 
months sick pay, death in service benefit,  redundancy pay, life cover and had some savings 
(although these appear to have been earmarked  for his house purchase). Mr J has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Js representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Js representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr J about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr J and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN79589652The information Mr J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN79589653I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Js case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN79589654did Mr J know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Ive seen a copy  of Mr Js 
signed mortgage application.  On it there  is a section related to PPI labelled  Accident, 
Sickness and Unemployment insurance where Mr J has signed to say yes, I would like to 
take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance. Mr J has also signed a separate  PPI 
application labelled Mortgage  Repayment  Insurance Application.  Theres  also nothing  on 
the paperwork from the sale to suggest  the policy was compulsory. So taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Mr J knew the policy  was optional and he agreed to take 
it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr J says Halifax didnt provided  advice during the sale. Halifax  disagrees  and says it did 
provide advice. Looking at what happened  when Halifax sold Mr J the PPI, Im persuaded 
that it provided advice  to Mr J during the sale.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr J with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr J. The adviser had information about  some of Mr Js financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. And I can see from the PPI application  form some  questions 
appear to have been asked about his employment  status and health. But I dont think these 
questions went far enough to build a full picture  of Mr Js wider circumstances at the time  
to allow  Halifax to make a suitable recommendation .
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr J given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr J, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr J met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr J had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Js ability  to continue to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for the employee benefits  (including 
redundancy and sick pay benefits) he says he would have been entitled to.
-Although Mr J says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr J. There was 
nothing about  Mr Js employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim.
Ref: DRN79589655-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that to claim for disability Mr J must not be able to do his job, similar work, or any 
paid work which his experience, education  and training  reasonably qualified him to 
do, and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for 
each claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given:
Mr Js circumstances, including his employers  sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr J be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr J sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr J was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect Mr Js payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs and benefits. I 
say this because  the PPI application form signed  by Mr J is titled  Mortgage Repayments 
Insurance Application and gives the monthly  cost and benefit of the policy.  Mr Js mortgage  
application form also describes the policy as paying  out in the event of accident,  sickness or 
involuntary unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about how long the benefit wouldve been paid, or the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr J agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr J Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr J all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Js. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN79589656-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Js representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr J about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr J? To what extent did Mr J suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr J. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr J suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr J would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr J, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr J has suffered loss or damage  
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things properly, Mr J 
would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr J says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr J had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN79589657As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Js circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, Mr J was given information about the cost and benefit  of the 
policy on the PPI application. But the information  about other  aspects of the policy such as 
how long the benefit wouldve paid out for and the limitations and exclusions, wasnt as clear 
as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought he had bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr J knew about or 
ought to have known about,  or for which he received advice, treatment or counselling 
from any doctor during  the 12 months before  the start date of the policy, which  
recurred within 24 months of the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr J  
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr J be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr J pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr J was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr J 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr J didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr J might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr J 
from taking out the policy,  Mr J, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr J had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do his job, any similar 
job, or any paid work which his experience,  education or training reasonably  qualified  him to 
do, it might  have played into his thinking  about  what he would have  done.  And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
Ref: DRN79589658concerned given that if Mr J was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr J that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But 
12 months was a longer period than Mr J would have received  full sick pay for and his 
enhanced and statutory redundancy entitlement was also likely to have been significantly 
less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr J would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr J be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his  home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Js sick pay or redundancy  money  for another use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr J would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr J made redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr J 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr J would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN79589659Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr J compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr J thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr J, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr J and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7958965