K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Pinnacle  Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  in 1995.
background
Ms H took out a mortgage with Pinnacle  in 1991. She was sold a PPI policy at the same time 
in connection  with this mortgage. In 1995 the insurers of the policy changed  to Pinnacle and 
a second sale of the PPI took place.  This decision deals solely with the policy sold in 1995.
The PPI policy would  have provided  Ms H with a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  per 
claim if she was off work due to accident and sickness.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Hs complaint should  be upheld. Ms H didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint. I appreciate Ms H will be 
disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why Ive reached this decision.
First of all Ive checked whether Ms H was eligible under the policy. Based  on Ms Hs age, 
employment and residence (amongst other things)  at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied Ms H 
would have been eligible.
Pinnacle had to make it clear to Ms H that the PPI was optional  and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to her account. Ms H says that in 1991 she was told she had to 
take PPI in order to get the mortgage. In 1995  Ms H says that she was under  the same  
impression and that it was not made  clear  to her even at this point that the PPI was optional.
Ive seen a copy  of the PPI application/acceptance form from the time of the sale in 1995. 
Ive also seen two letters  one explaining that the existing insurers  were withdrawing their 
plan and the other a welcome letter from Pinnacle.  I appreciate  Ms Hs point that there  was 
no option to decline  the cover on the acceptance  form and she was instead provided  with 
options for the cover to continue  at the same  level as before or an option  to increase the 
benefit by 25%. Having  said that, I think its clear from the application form and the letter 
informing Ms H of the change that had occurred  as regards the insurers,  that if Ms H didnt 
complete this form then the cover would end. By this time Ms H had held the mortgage for 
around 4 years already and there was nothing to suggest that not continuing with the cover  
would have impacted her mortgage. I also note that Ms H opted  for the increased cover.
So I think its more likely  that Pinnacle  presented the PPI as optional and that it was only 
applied to the account because Ms H agreed to take it out.
Ref: DRN70788822Pinnacle say they didnt  recommend PPI to Ms H. I understand Ms H believes that they did 
recommend it to her. However,  this is in the context of what she says about her being  led to 
believe she had to take PPI. I have already considered  this above and have concluded that I 
think the optional  nature was made  clear  in 1995. And I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to 
suggest that Pinnacle made a recommendation to Ms H in the sense  that they wouldve had 
to take steps to ensure  the PPI was suitable for Ms H in her particular circumstances.  So for 
example, they didnt  have to take into account  what Ms H has told us about her sick pay and 
savings at the time of the sale. Instead it would have been for Ms H to assess  her own 
existing repayment  provisions and decide whether  she still wanted to take PPI out despite  
these.
But Pinnacle did have  to provide Ms H with clear  information so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn  
Ms Hs attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
The application form made it clear what the costs of the policy were. However, its possible 
Pinnacle didnt  give Ms H all of the information as they should have about  the benefits and 
main exclusions/restrictions as they should  have. But this in itself doesnt mean that the PPI 
was mis-sold as I have  to consider  whether  better information would have put Ms H off 
taking the PPI.
I dont think it would  have.  I say this because:
-Although Ms H has told us she would  have received six months full pay followed by 
six months half pay from her employer if she was off work sick, the policy would have  
paid out in addition to her sick pay and it would have been  particularly  useful in the 
second six months when her pay reduced to half. It would also have paid out if she 
lost her job. The PPI was protecting a valuable  asset and so I think Ms H could have 
benefitted from the additional  protection provided.
-Ms H doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policies which would  have made  it difficult for her to make  a successful claim. Ms H 
has told us about a medical  condition she suffered  from in 1993. But its clear from 
the welcome letter  provided in 1995  that this would  not have prevented Ms H from 
making a successful claim for this condition if the need  arose as it wouldnt have 
been treated as a pre-existing medical condition given that the original  
commencement date of the policy remained  as 1991. Ms H has also mentioned 
another condition  which she suffered from since her teenage years.  However, given 
the nature  of this condition, its unlikely that Ms H would  have been off work for 
significant periods  of time, such that she would need to make  a claim under the 
policy for it.
-Ms H could  have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Pinnacle mis-sold Ms H this PPI 
policy. I understand Ms H is unhappy about  the way Pinnacle treated her when she did try 
and make a claim under  the policy. I have not considered this here as my decision is solely 
about whether  Ms H was mis-sold PPI in 1995.  I understand  Ms H has or will be raising a 
separate complaint with Pinnacle about  the claims aspect.
Ref: DRN70788823my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint against  Pinnacle  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7078882