K820x#14complaint
Mr U says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr U bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch. 
At the time,  Mr U was employed  as a sales representative. He has told us he was entitled to  
up to three  months  sick pay and had some savings he couldve used to make his credit  card 
repayments. Mr U has said he suffered from some medical conditions prior to the sale of the 
policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Us credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. 
At the time,  it cost no more than 79p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Lloyds Bank  has evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in 2000.
Mr Us representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Us representative says:
Lloyds Bank failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr U wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Us representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds Bank should 
have told Mr U about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds Bank should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr U and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and 
The information Mr U received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN70593862Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr U disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Us. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Us complaint.
This sale took place  in November 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  Bank at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI Code  and 
Ref: DRN70593863these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Us case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking   
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds Bank  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Us complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds Bank gave advice, whether it advised  Mr U with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds Bank gave Mr U sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr U, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr U suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr U and Lloyds 
Bank, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr U know  he had a choice?
Lloyds Bank  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr U says that Lloyds just included the PPI as part of the package.  But Ive seen a copy  of 
the credit  card application form Mr U saw and signed. This included a section called 
Ref: DRN70593864Optional Features  where PPI was listed. There is a tick in the box for PPI to show  that Mr U 
wanted this policy added  to his credit  card account. But many of the other optional products 
were not selected.  So even if Mr U didnt tick the box himself, I think it was clear that this 
was an optional extra. Mr U signed the application  form, so I think  this reflected  what  he 
wanted at the time. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr U knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds Bank provide  advice?
Lloyds Bank  says it thinks this was an advised sale. Mr U disagreed. Looking at what  
happened when  Lloyds Bank  sold Mr U the PPI, Im persuaded that it was an advised  sale.  I 
say this because  the evidence shows this sale took place in a meeting and I think its likely 
that a discussion  wouldve  taken place about Mr Us circumstances and need for the policy.  
This means  Lloyds Bank had to advise Mr U with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds Bank took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr U. It seems  Mr U cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mr Us financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mr U would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds Bank  considered whether Mr U had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  Bank did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr U given  his circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank  did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr U, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr U met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr U had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Us ability  to continue to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay benefits and savings he 
says he would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr U.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr U. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Us employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr U has told us about 
two injuries which  he sustained prior to the sale. But I still think  the policy was 
Ref: DRN70593865suitable for Mr U because the policy  only excluded  claims  for conditions which he 
had suffered from in the 12 months  prior to the sale and he hasnt provided  evidence 
that either of these  injuries caused  any ongoing problems which  he wouldve needed 
an extended time off work for. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr Us 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  Bank gave Mr U sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Lloyds 
Bank was recommending  to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr U was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr U would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr U would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. 
I am also satisfied Mr U would have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds Bank gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the 
premiums would be added to the account  balance, attracting interest if unpaid at the end of 
the month,  and were  payable during a claim) or about the exclusions and limitations,  before 
Mr U agreed to take out the policy. Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy  
summary Mr U might  have been  given,  I think its more likely than not that he based his 
decision on the things  he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr U, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
Bank did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to Mr U. Im not persuaded that Lloyds Bank  gave Mr U all of the 
information he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Us representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Us. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Us representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN70593866value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr U about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Us representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr U has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds Bank ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Lloyds  Banks shortcomings  have on Mr U? To what extent did Mr U 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  Bank didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr U. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr U 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr U 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds Bank done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds Bank took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr U, Ive found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr U has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds Bank  had explained things 
properly, Mr U would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr U says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr U had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  Bank advised  him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Us circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
Ref: DRN70593867In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr U ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Lloyds Bank didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr U 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he based his 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr U thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability caused  or contributed  to by a 
condition for which  Mr U consulted  or received treatment from a doctor  in the 12 
month period  before the commencement date of the insurance; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr U 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr U pause for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr U from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Us circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. As Ive said above, Mr U has told us that he 
suffered some injuries prior to the PPI sale, but due to the fact that he has not told us that 
these injuries required  ongoing treatment or medical attention, I dont think  this wouldve 
made a difference to his decision  to take out the policy. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest he wouldve  been caught  by any of the other significant exclusions.  So, I still think 
he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr U might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr U 
from taking out the policy,  Mr U, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
To make a disability claim, Mr U needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed been  able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr U would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
Ref: DRN70593868what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Us representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr U would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Us 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr U 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr U believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr U in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds Bank should  pay Mr U compensation,  as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr U thinks Lloyds Bank misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds Banks statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds 
Bank failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Lloyds Bank  gave Mr U, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1997 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN70593869Ive also thought about the approach Mr Us representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds Bank negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr U and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Lloyds Bank had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr U in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7059386