K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont fairly  meet  his claim for 
stolen items  under his home insurance  (contents) policy.
All references to Acromas  in my decision include its agents.
background
Mr H had tool boxes and a number of tools stolen from his home when he was away on 
holiday, so he made  a claim on his home  insurance policy.
Acromas investigated Mr Hs claim and agreed to settle it by replacing  stolen  items.  Mr H 
wasnt happy with the proposed settlement as it didnt include all of the items he said had 
been stolen.
Acromas said Mr H was responsible for proving that items existed and were  owned by him at 
the time of the theft. It said Mr H had told it that a number of tools were stolen in 2009 and at 
that time,  tools were  replaced under an insurance claim. So it didnt  think  it should indemnify 
him for items purchased  before  the 2009 theft incident. It said Mr H had provided a quote for 
some of the items, dated before the previous  theft and hed indicated  that the quote was not 
for him and for a friend. 
Acromas acknowledged  that it had not dealt with Mr Hs claim in a timely manner and offered 
him £100 to compensate him for the delay. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He said hed already told Acromas hed made a 
mistake when hed told it he was previously burgled  in 2009. Hed found paperwork that 
showed the burglary had actually happened in 2000.  He had receipts to show  that his items 
had been replaced in 2004.
Our investigator asked  Acromas for further  clarification as to why it hadnt  agreed to settle  
Mr Hs whole claim. Acromas acknowledged  that Mr Hs previous claim was made in 2000,  
rather than 2009.  But it said one of the documents was a quotation from 2001 which  didnt 
tally with the packing lists supplied as proof  of ownership from the company that had 
replaced the tools from his previous burglary.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 September 2019, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The relevant rules  and industry  guidance 
say Acromas has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Its for Mr H to prove  that he owned  the items  he claimed for and their value. The policy 
terms required him to send (Acromas)  at (its) reasonable  expense,  all the documents  and 
information (including written estimates  and proof of ownership or value) (it) may need.
Mr H has provided several documents to support his claim.  These  include a quotation  list 
(dated 2001)  and packing lists (dated 2003  and 2004). He says these relate to when his 
tools were replaced following his previous burglary in 2000. 
Ref: DRN75639602Acromas says its prepared to settle the claim for items listed  on the packing list, but not for 
items that only appear on the quotation  list. It told us that it wasnt sure what the quote  dated 
2001 was for. Acromas  has noted that Mr H told it that in 2016 he was thinking of selling his 
tools, so hed asked his friend to get a quote  from the supplier so he could see what  the 
value of the goods came to. I dont have  any further detail of what  was discussed between  
Mr H and Acromas. But I think it should  have been  clear to Acromas  that the document they 
were referring to wasnt a quote from 2016, given  that it was dated 2001.
Mr H says some of the stolen items arent included on the packing lists but they do appear 
on the quotation list. Hes told us that he recently got in touch with the company who 
supplied the tools  hed received when his previous claim was settled. He says it told him the 
quotation was sent to them by one of their suppliers.  Mr H says he isnt able to provide any 
other evidence that he owned these items. They were  replaced when his previous claim was 
settled, but he wouldnt  have been  given  receipts as they were supplied  by the insurance 
company. 
Mr H has claimed  for over 200 stolen tools. Acromas  has agreed to replace the majority of 
these. I acknowledge  that the quotation list isnt definitive proof  that Mr H owned all of the 
items he is claiming for. But I also dont think its reasonable for Acromas  to expect Mr H to 
evidence ownership  of every item that he says was taken.
On balance, I think its likely that Mr H did own all of the items he is claiming  for and they 
were stolen from him. So I intend to direct Acromas  to settle  Mr Hs whole claim in line with 
the terms of the policy.
Mr H has said that he would prefer a cash settlement, rather  than having the stolen items 
replaced. But Acromas policy terms give it the option to decide  whether to replace items as 
new or pay the cost of replacing the item as new (which may be restricted  to the discounted 
replacement price it would normally pay). And I havent seen any reason to direct it to do 
anything different.
I also dont think Acromas  communicated with Mr H as clearly as it should have done. In its 
final response to Mr Hs complaint, Acromas  told Mr H that it wouldnt expect its claims 
department to indemnify him for items purchased prior to the 2009  theft incident.  Mr H says 
hed already told Acromas  that hed initially given the wrong  date for his previous burglary. 
During our investigation, Acromas said that it was aware  that the previous burglary had 
taken place in 2000, when  it had assessed  Mr Hs claim. It had accepted documents from 
2003 and 2004 as proof of Mr Hs loss. So I dont think Acromas gave Mr H a clear 
explanation as to why it wasnt willing to settle  his whole claim. And this was understandably  
frustrating and confusing  for Mr H.
Acromas had offered  Mr H £100 for the time taken  to process  the claim before he brought 
his complaint to us. I intend to award  an additional £100 for distress  and inconvenience  
caused to Mr H because  of the way it handled his claim  and communicated with him.
responses
Mr H said he was happy with my provisional  decision. Acromas said it accepted  my findings  
and would proceed to settle the claim once  it had heard that Mr H had accepted as well.
Ref: DRN75639603my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  said they accept my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change my conclusions
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Acromas  Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Make  a full settlement  for all of the items  Mr H has claimed for in line with the terms 
of the policy
pay a total of £200 to Mr H for distress  and inconvenience.
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr H has accepted my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7563960