K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt actually sell the insurance 
complained about.  To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In October  1999 Mrs C opened  a store card account whilst shopping in the store. At the 
same time she took out PPI to protect her card monthly repayments.  
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough  information to uphold this complaint. He relied on 
the fact that the policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from health 
problems the consumer already had when the policy started. And Mrs C had mentioned  
having a health condition  at the time - so if she needed to claim for this, she wouldn't have 
been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mrs C had understood this so she could  make  
a fair choice about taking out the PPI. But he didn't think that FICL did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear to her - and if it had, then our adjudicator  didn't  think  Mrs C would've 
taken the policy out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that Mrs C had not provided any information about how her medical condition 
affected her ability  to work. It said the condition shed mentioned was often manageable with 
prescribed medication. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Cs completed  store card application.  Mrs C has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs C wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign  and I think she wouldve  seen  the PPI information  which  is reasonably clearly 
set out on the form.  So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs C to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs C also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that 
she must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  
she has forgotten this now.  On balance, I find that Mrs C was aware the policy  was optional 
and she chose to buy the policy to protect  her card monthly repayments.
Ref: DRN75519312I dont think FICL advised Mrs C to take out the PPI. This means  FICL didnt have to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs C with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide  if she wanted  to take it out. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs C wouldve acted differently,  and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Mrs C was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account that Mrs Cs employer wouldve paid 
her 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. The PPI provided better protection  
than she couldve relied on getting through her employer.  The policy wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit for as long as Mrs C was off work sick  and it couldve cleared her card balance if 
she wasnt well enough to go back to work.  
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing  Mrs C with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve  had some  extra  costs  as a result  of being 
sick or disabled and she wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 
months. 
The policy also provided cover if Mrs C lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. So 
I think Mrs C couldve  benefitted from having PPI.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  Mrs C wouldnt have been  covered for 
absence from work  caused by a medical  condition  she knew  about in the 12 months  before 
the PPI start date.  
Shes told us that she was diagnosed  with a medical condition some  years earlier  and this 
was managed with prescribed  medication.  She has also told us that shes  never needed to 
take time off work as a result of this condition.
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told, and looking at the policy  wording,  
I dont feel that Ive seen enough to be able to say that its likely  Mrs C wouldve had reason 
to be concerned by the exclusion that meant she wasnt covered for existing health  issues. 
As far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mrs C was affected by any of the other terms that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to her. So, even if these werent mentioned  clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about these policy details  wouldve  made  any difference  
to Mrs Cs decision to take it out. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs C to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs C had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mrs C  and she took it out when she didnt have to. So it seems she wanted the 
cover - and she indicated on the application form that she was happy to pay for it. Plus she 
could cancel it without  further cost at any time.  
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs C, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance,  I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
Ref: DRN75519313In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mrs C off taking  it out. Ive not seen 
enough so far to suggest that at the time she took out the PPI Mrs C had any reason to think  
shed likely  be off work  sick as a result  of her existing medical  condition  for long enough to 
want to make a claim under the policy. So I cant fairly say that shes  lost out as a result of 
paying for the policy.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mrs C mainly says she signed up for the card whilst she was out shopping  so she could get 
a discount on her purchases  and she wasnt told about PPI. Shes  also mentioned that she 
made a successful PPI mis-sale complaint against a different business.  
 
FICL hasnt  made any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account  Mrs Cs comments made in response to my provisional  
decision, including what shes  said about  the way another claim shes made  was dealt with. 
But I am concerned  here just with her complaint about the PPI sold with this store  card. So 
this information  doesnt change my conclusion.
And she hasnt provided me with any new information that has changed what  I think  about 
this complaint, for the reasons Ive set out more fully in my provisional decision.
So, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7551931