K821x#15Complaint
Miss C has complained about a hire-purchase agreement  that she entered into with FCE 
Bank Plc (trading as Ford Credit). Shes said that she was misled  into believing  the 
agreement could be transferred into the name  of another  party  and that the payments were, 
in any event, not affordable. 
Background
In July 2016, Miss C entered  into a hire purchase  agreement for a brand-new van. The 
purchase price was £21,765.99. Miss C paid a deposit of £1,500.00. The remaining 
£20,265.99 was funded by a hire-purchase agreement with Ford. The loan had an annual 
percentage rate (APR)  of 5.8% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of 
around £389.41 followed by a final instalment of £4,464.00, which  included  a £10 option to 
purchase fee. 
In August  2018,  Miss C complained to Ford. She said she was unhappy at being unable  to 
transfer the agreement to another  party and the monthly payments for the agreement were 
more than she could  afford. Miss Cs complaint was considered  by one of our investigators. 
She didnt  think the checks  Ford carried  out before providing the finance were  reasonable 
and proportionate. She also thought reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown Miss C couldnt afford to make the monthly payments. This led to her concluding Ford 
unfairly entered into the hire purchase agreement with Miss C and that the complaint should 
be upheld. 
Ford didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset in order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, and considering  the main reason 
for Miss Cs complaint, I think there  are two overarching questions  that I needed  to consider 
in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
questions are:
Did Ford complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been  able to do so?
Did Ford act unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Miss C in some other way?
If I determine that Ford did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss C and that 
she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats  fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider  the first of the overarching  questions.
Ref: DRN75341482Did Ford complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy itself that Miss C would be 
able to repay in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when Ford lent to Miss C required  it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Miss C could  afford  to make  her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
Any affordability checks have to be borrower-focused   so Ford had to think about  whether 
making the payments sustainably would cause  difficulties  or adverse consequences for  
Miss C. In other words,  it wasnt  enough  for Fords lending decision  to only consider the 
likelihood that it would  get its money  back, or that it had the ability  to repossess the vehicle, 
without considering the impact of repayment on Miss C herself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater  and the customer is required  to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Fords checks
Ive considered the checks Ford says it carried out in this particular case. It seems to me that 
Fords checks were  limited to carrying out a credit check  and then seeing whether  what  this  
uncovered met its scorecard criteria. But it hasnt told us what  it was in the information  
gathered, in fact it has provided nothing at all on the detail, which led it to conclude Miss Cs 
circumstances met its criteria. Indeed it seems to me that Ford simply expects us to accept  
Miss Cs loan was affordable because its systems  approved it as a result of Miss C 
achieving a score  of +6.4%. 
Considering Ford says it gathered sufficient information, in line with its regulatory  obligations,  
to inform its lending  decisions, its extremely disappointing that Ford hasnt provided it to me. 
Ref: DRN75341483Equally its also disappointing that Ford has been unable to tell me what  its score of +6.4% 
means, or what it knew about Miss Cs circumstances when this loan was provided  to her. 
This service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an argument  to support 
Fords defence of Miss Cs complaint.  If Ford cant,  or wont,  provide the information relied 
on and describe why it showed it was fair and reasonable  to lend to Miss C then I cant and 
wont reach the conclusion that its checks before providing this loan were  proportionate. 
Without any explanation from Ford on this matter, I cant  take it as read that its lending 
decision was fair. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that I dont  consider the fact Miss C made  the first 
three payments on the agreement on time doesnt  in itself demonstrates the payments  were 
affordable. I say this while mindful  of the fact that the fourth and fifth direct  debit payments 
werent able to be collected via direct debit.
In these circumstances, and in the absence of anything else to indicate that Ford took any 
further steps to ascertain Miss Cs monthly  income or regular expenditure, Im not satisfied 
that the checks Ford carried out before reaching the conclusion the agreement was 
affordable for Miss C were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks more likely than not have shown that Miss C 
was able to sustainably make the repayments  to this agreement?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out before this agreement  was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown.  So I need  to decide whether it is more  likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told Ford that it was unfair to enter into this agreement  
with Miss C. 
Miss C has provided us with evidence  of her financial circumstances at the time she applied  
for the finance.  Of course,  I accept  different  checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Miss C has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Ford mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything 
else from Ford showing what this information would have shown, I think  its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to place  considerable weight on it as an indication of what  Miss Cs financial 
circumstances were  more likely  than not to have been at the time.
Miss Cs bank statements  show that she was in receipt of an average of around  £1,050.00 or 
so a month.  Its clear  that the monthly payments alone for the finance would have swallowed 
up a significant  portion   approaching 40% - of Miss Cs monthly income. Ford would also 
have been aware  that Miss C would be faced  with a significant outlay for insurance. And 
when the running  costs  of the vehicle  are added to monthly finance payments, its clear  that 
Miss Cs salary was nowhere near enough  to meet the cost of this vehicle in a sustainable  
manner. 
Indeed, it seems to me that bearing  in mind  her existing commitments  she didnt have 
enough left over to make  the monthly  payments to the agreement,  let alone the associated 
costs. Ive also considered Fords  comments regarding the influx  of funds into Miss Cs 
account. But its clear  that these  funds were from a loan provided by another  lender and I 
think that these  funds would have been used to reduce  the amount being borrowed  from 
Ford at the outset  and therefore the interest paid, if there  was any indication  that they were  
to go towards repaying the credit for this vehicle. 
Ref: DRN75341484So while Ford maintains that it would  still have lent even if it had seen Miss Cs bank 
statements, if it had done in these circumstances, I would in any event have found that its 
lending decision wasnt fair and reasonable.
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, I think  that reasonable and proportionate  
checks would have  alerted Ford to the fact that Miss C wasnt able to make the payments to 
this agreement without  experiencing  financial difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it 
follows that she wasnt in any sort of financial  position to sustainably  make the repayments 
to this loan.     
Did Ford act unfairly or unreasonably towards  Miss C in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided.  Miss C says that she was told she would  be able to 
transfer the agreement into another partys  name.  I dont know  what Miss C was told at the 
time she applied  for the finance.  But its clear  that the agreement was in her sole name.  And 
there isnt any other corroborating evidence in the information Ive been provided  with  such  
as alternative proposals or confirmation  how Miss C would  go about changing the party  on 
the agreements  - which enables me to safely conclude Miss C was misled in the way she 
says she was. 
In these circumstances, I find that Ford did not act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C 
in some other way. 
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about  the two overarching questions, set out on page 1 of this 
decision, I find that:
Ford didnt  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks  on Miss C to satisfy itself 
that she was able to make the payments to this agreement;  
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Miss C 
was unable  to sustainably make the repayments  to this hire purchase agreement;
Ford didnt  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way towards Miss C; 
The above  findings leave me reaching  the overall conclusion that Ford unfairly and 
unreasonably entered  into this hire purchase agreement with Miss C.
Did Miss C lose out as a result of Fords shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Miss C suffered adverse consequences as a result of Ford unfairly 
entering into this hire purchase  agreement with her. As I understand it the vehicle was 
repossessed in 2017. Given Miss C paid and is still being expected  to pay for a vehicle that 
was repossessed relatively  quickly, I think that Miss C lost out because  of what Ford did 
wrong.
So overall and having thought about  everything  provided and whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this case,  I find that Miss C lost out because  Ford unfairly entered 
into a hire purchase agreement, which it ought to have realised was unaffordable  for her, 
with her. And this means I think that Ford needs  to put things right.
Ref: DRN75341485Fair compensation  what  Ford  needs  to do to put things right for Miss C
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Ford putting Miss C in 
the position shed now be in if she hadnt been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Miss C 
was given the vehicle in question and it has since been repossessed.  So, in these 
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put 
Miss C back in the position  she would be in if she hadnt been given the vehicle in the first 
place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Ford to put things right in the 
following way.
Our website  sets out the main  things we consider when looking  at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back  the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit that they were  
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have  caused the consumer to lose out. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car 
was repossessed relatively  soon after the agreement started. So Miss C clearly hasnt had 
anywhere near the benefit of what she was lent. And I dont think  that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Miss C to have to repay  the remaining amount outstanding on her balance  
once all interest fees and charges have been  removed. As this is the case, I think that Ford 
should either buy back the outstanding  balance from the third-party debt purchaser and write 
it off. Or it should pay the third-party debt purchaser  an amount to settle the outstanding 
debt. 
Miss C did make some monthly  payments  to the agreement and Im mindful that Miss C did 
have use of the vehicle for a period. So I think its fair and reasonable for Ford not to refund 
these payments as this fairly and reasonably covers  any fair usage  deduction  from Miss Cs 
use of the vehicle. Miss C also paid a deposit  to the dealer. We normally say that any 
deposit paid should be refunded. And Ive not seen  anything  to suggest that this should  
happen here, so Ford should refund Miss Cs deposit and add 8% simple interest a year to 
this.
As Im directing Ford to arrange for the entire outstanding balance on Miss Cs loan to be 
written off  including all interest and charges   Im satisfied that this also puts things right 
for Ford selling an unfairly high debt, which didnt in any way reflect that Miss C only had the 
car for a short period of time, to a third-party  debt purchaser.
Ref: DRN75341486Miss Cs credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on any loans or credit they 
shouldnt have been given. After all its the interest  and charges that the consumer is being 
refunded and the expectation is they will have repaid,  or they should  repay  what they owe.  
Ive not seen anything here which leads me to think such a direction  would  be unfair here.
So having  carefully thought about  everything, Ford should  remove any negative information 
that it has recorded on Miss Cs credit  file about this agreement. 
All of this means  that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Cs complaint 
for Ford to put things right in the following way:
Refund Miss Cs deposit  with interest  of 8% simple per year;
Either buy back the outstanding balance on Miss Cs account from the third party 
debt-purchaser and write it off; OR
Pay the third-party debt purchaser an amount to settle any remaining liability;
Removing  any adverse information  it has recorded  about this agreement  on Miss Cs 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Cs complaint. FCE Bank  Plc should  put 
things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7534148