K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc kept rejecting her payments to its credit  card 
account.
background
Mrs W tried to make a payment to her Sainsbury's credit card. The payment didnt go 
through but the funds  were still debited from her account. After two days  the funds were 
available again  in her account.  So she tried to make  the payment  again. But the same thing 
happened. After about four attempts Mrs W contacted  Sainsburys  to find out what  the 
problem was.
Mrs W wanted to clear  the balance on her account.  And she couldnt use the funds while 
they were being  taken  in and out of her account. So she wants compensation for her time 
and effort  and the inconvenience.
Sainsburys apologised for the problems Mrs W had suffered. Itd had problems with online 
payments after some  system updates.  It could see Mrs W had tried to make a number of 
payment attempts and it appreciated how frustrating  it mustve  been for her. In recognition of 
the inconvenience Sainsburys credited £75 to Mrs W credit card. 
Mrs W said she now wanted to close her Sainsburys account.  Shed paid off the balance 
and was no longer  using  it. So she was unhappy Sainsburys hadnt asked her what to do 
with the £75 before paying  it to her credit card. Sainsburys explained itd been dealing  with a 
number of similar problems. And it shouldve tried to call Mrs W to discuss  matters first. So it 
paid a further £25 compensation to her bank account.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied  with Sainsburys response. So she contacted  our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She could see Mrs Ws attempted payments had failed 
due to problems  with Sainsburys IT systems. And Mrs W hadnt  received a response within 
the expected eight  week period. She agreed Mrs W hadnt received the expected level of 
service. But Sainsburys had now resolved the issue.  And she felt the £100 compensation 
paid to Mrs W was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs W didnt agree. Shed taken  out a personal  loan to pay off the balance.  And she was 
now paying interest on that loan. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating this mustve  been  for Mrs W. She tried to make  a large 
payment to her credit card account  on two occasions without success.  And attempts to make  
smaller payments were also rejected. So Ive looked  carefully at whats happened and what  
Sainsburys needs to do to put things  right. 
Sainsburys has acknowledged it had a problem with its internal systems.  And Mrs Ws 
payments were rejected in error. I can see the issue has now been  resolved and payments 
are processing normally again.  But Mrs W was inconvenienced by the problem. And she had 
to spend time sorting things out. 
Ref: DRN70492012Mrs W is also unhappy that the money  left her account before being returned each time. So 
she couldnt use it elsewhere in the meantime. And I can understand how frustrating this 
mustve been. But if the payment had gone through properly then Mrs W wouldnt have  been  
able to use the money anyway.
Mrs W said shed  now had to take out a loan to pay off her Sainsburys account. And she 
wouldnt have needed to do that if her payment had gone through.  But it was Mrs Ws 
decision to spend  the money elsewhere  rather than set it aside. She wouldve still needed to 
make a payment.  So if Mrs W decided to use the funds for other  purposes  and then take out 
a loan to manage  her finances I cant really hold Sainsburys responsible for that. That 
wouldnt be fair.
I do understand Mrs Ws frustration. And I do think Sainsburys  should  compensate  her for 
the time and inconvenience shes been put through. I can see Sainsburys paid £75 off the 
balance of Mrs Ws account  in recognition  of the problems she experienced. And it paid a 
further £25 to her bank  account after it agreed it shouldve  offered Mrs W the option of where 
to make the first compensation payment  to.
Sainsburys has acknowledged its mistakes. And its paid a total of £100  compensation to 
Mrs W. Taking into account  everything thats  happened I think  thats the right response for 
the inconvenience and loss of funds while the payment problems were sorted out. And its in 
line with the sort of award our service normally makes.
I realise Mrs W will be disappointed with this outcome.  But I think Sainsburys has responded 
fairly to her complaint. So I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7049201