K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Pinnacle Insurance Plc cancelled his car insurance.
background
Mr T was involved in a road traffic accident  on 2 April 2016. He was driving  the rear car in a 
three-vehicle shunt  that resulted in damage  to all three vehicles and a number of personal  
injury claims being made. It also resulted in Mr Ts car being written off.
Mr T reported the accident  to Pinnace, his insurer, on 4 April.  Pinnacle asked Mr T to provide 
some documentation  so his claim could proceed.  He provided this to Pinnacles insurance  
investigators when  they visited  him on 9 May  the documents were  included in the 
investigators report of 16 May.  But Pinnacle  cancelled the policy  on 1 June because Mr T 
hadnt provided the documentation they asked  for.
Because of the cancellation,  Pinnacle  chased Mr T for the total value of the claim they were 
paying (just over £34,000). But, after accepting theyd received the documentation theyd 
asked for, and that they shouldnt have  cancelled the policy, they reduced this to the £3,000  
excess on Mr Ts policy. 
But Pinnacle put a cancellation  marker on Mr Ts insurance record, which  has made  it 
difficult for him to obtain insurance  elsewhere. And, because the policy  had been cancelled,  
the company who financed  Mr Ts car took it back and issued a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) for almost £7,000  for the outstanding  finance. Mr T has also been threatened with 
court action by other people involved in the accident   for damages to the middle vehicle and 
for personal  injuries  to the passengers  of the front car. 
Mr T has complained that Pinnacle have cancelled his car insurance.  He says the situation 
has caused him to be diagnosed with depression and prevented  him affording  a new car. 
This has had an impact on his ability to find new work.
Our investigator found that Pinnacle  had acted unreasonably. He didnt think  they shouldve 
cancelled the policy, and he didnt think they followed the process they should  have when 
they did cancel  it. He also found  they didnt share the findings  of the engineers  report  with 
Mr T, so he didnt  know the car had been written  off. And because  Mr T was insured at the 
time of the accident, he said Pinnacle shouldnt  have chased Mr T for the £34,000  claim 
value, and he should only have been chased  for the £3,000 excess  he was liable for.
Because of this he said Pinnacle should  remove the cancellation from the records  and 
should investigate  the legal claims against  Mr T. But he said Mr T was liable for the policy 
excess and, once Pinnacle had received this from him, they should pay the pre-accident  
value (PAV)  to the finance company  the legal owners of his car. He also said that Pinnacle  
should pay Mr T £600 for the stress and upset theyd caused him.
Ref: DRN73208432Pinnacle agreed to remove  the cancellation marker, and Ive seen that this has now been  
done. They  also said theyd deduct the excess and salvage value of the car (because it was 
returned to the finance  company) from PAV and pay the remainder to the finance company. 
Mr T agreed  to this as part of the resolution  of his complaint.  But he said he didnt  think  £600 
compensation was sufficient for 3 years of stress, inconvenience, damage to my credit 
rating [and]  the money Ive had to pay out for all the transports. He thought £20,000  was fair 
compensation. Pinnacle also didnt agree with the recommended  £600  and they thought 
£300 was fair compensation.
Mr T has also explained some of the impact the accident has had on his children, who were 
in the car at the time of the accident. Hes also explained how not having a car since  the 
accident has affected him and his family.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the basic  facts of this case arent disputed,  I wont repeat them  here. Pinnacle have 
admitted that believing Mr T hadnt provided the documents  they asked for, and cancelling  
his policy  as a result, was an administrative oversight which  meant they originally asked 
him to pay the full value of the claim.  Once this was sorted, Pinnacle just asked Mr T to pay 
his policy  excess.  So my decision will concentrate on what  happened  as a result  of the 
cancellation, and what shouldve happened.
Mr Ts car was written  off as a result  of the accident. And because his insurance policy  had 
been cancelled,  the finance  company  took the car back. Pinnacle have agreed  to pay the 
finance company  £200  the PAV less the excess (£1,000) less the £800  salvage value of 
the car. As the finance company have taken the car, theyve also gained  the salvage  value. 
So the finance company  have received a total of £1,000.
But if the policy hadnt been  cancelled, the car wouldve been written off and the £1,000 
wouldve been paid to the finance company. So, in either instance,  the finance  company 
wouldve received  the same  amount  and Mr T wouldve been left without a car. And hed still 
be liable  to pay any outstanding finance.
Because Mr T wasnt  able to pay off the outstanding  finance,  the finance  company took him 
to court  and obtained a CCJ. But this wouldve been the case  whether  the policy was 
cancelled or not  if the policy hadnt been  cancelled then the same amount wouldve been 
owed because of the write-off. So I dont  agree  that Mr T had a CCJ because the policy  was 
cancelled, and I cant hold Pinnacle liable for any damage to his credit  file that resulted from 
this  the CCJ wouldve issued regardless of what Pinnacle did or didnt do.
I also cant hold Pinnacle liable for anything thats  resulted  from Mr T not being able to afford 
to buy a replacement  car. Once his car was written off, he would always have been without a 
car, and the PAV would always have  been paid to the finance company. 
Ref: DRN73208433Mr T paid for the recovery and storage of his car after the accident. This totalled  £860. The 
accident took place on Saturday  2 April 2016,  and Mr T didnt report  this to Pinnacle until the 
following Monday   4 April.  But Pinnacle have a 24/7 claims line, so he couldve reported the 
accident at the time it happened. Had he done  so, Pinnacle wouldve arranged for recovery 
and storage of his car. By choosing not to report the accident until two days later, I cant  hold 
Pinnacle responsible  for the costs  Mr T incurred as a result. So I wont  be asking them to 
pay the £860.
Mr T has also been threatened  with legal action as a result of the accident. As, to my 
knowledge, Pinnacle have now settled all claims with the other  parties involved in the 
accident, this shouldnt be happening. Mr T was served with court  papers for the damage  to 
the middle vehicle  in September 2017  and, by October 2017,  Pinnacle had paid out this part 
of the claim which  resolved this issue. The threatened CCJ was not registered against  him.
Mr T is now being threatened with a CCJ by the occupants of the front vehicle. I cant  hold 
Pinnacle responsible  for the actions  of third parties, and whether theyd cancelled the policy 
or not wouldnt have  stopped this. But I would expect them to deal with this challenge as it 
relates to a claim theyve  dealt with.
I have every sympathy for how the accident  has affected Mr Ts children. But they were 
affected because  they were  in a car that was involved in an accident, and not because of 
anything Pinnacle  did or didnt do. So I cant consider how they were  affected when looking 
at whats a reasonable remedy for the impact of the cancellation of the policy.
Mr T has been  impacted  as a result of the accident  and as a result  of the policy  cancellation. 
As Ive explained above, these two things  are not necessarily related. I can only consider 
any impact Mr T has suffered as a direct result  of Pinnacles actions.
Pinnacle put a cancellation marker  against  Mr T. Since the investigator  issued their view this 
has been removed,  and this removal has been confirmed in writing  to Mr T. But, while the 
marker was on file, it wouldve affected  his ability to get insurance  he wouldve had to 
declare this which may have resulted in insurance being refused or being  more expensive. 
However, as Mr T has said he couldnt  afford to buy a replacement  car, the cancellation  
marker wouldnt have  actually affected  him. But this doesnt mean  that it shouldve been  
registered. And, because  Pinnacle knew they shouldnt have cancelled  the policy, they 
couldve removed this marker earlier  they didnt know Mr T couldnt replace his car, but 
they wouldve  known  how an incorrect cancellation marker couldve affected  him.
The investigator recommended  Pinnacle  pay Mr T £600 for how hes been affected  by their 
service. For the reasons  above, I dont agree with Mr T that this should  be increased  Mr T 
has been mainly  affected by the results of the accident itself,  and not by the cancellation of 
his policy. But Pinnacle did chase him for £34,000 when they should only have been asking 
him for the policy excess. And he was threatened with a CCJ from the driver  of the middle  
vehicle because the claim hadnt  been  paid out by Pinnacle at that point. This would only 
have added to the stress  and worry resulting from Mr Ts financial difficulties. So I dont 
agree with Pinnacle that this amount should be reduced either.
Ref: DRN73208434my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Pinnacle Insurance  Plc must 
pay him £600 to compensate him for the impact of the cancellation of his policy and claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7320843