K821x#15complaint
Ms O is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc placed a marker on her credit  file 
which meant she had a loan application  refused.  She wants compensation from NatWest for 
this. 
background
Ms O applied for a loan with a finance  provider around July 2018. But her application was 
refused. When Ms O queried this with the prospective lender, it told her this was due to a 
marker placed against her name  by NatWest. 
Ms O complained to NatWest. The bank told her it wasnt able to give her any more 
information about why the marker was placed  against her. But NatWest did say that it hadnt 
made an error. This meant  it wasnt upholding  her complaint. 
So, Ms O brought  her complaint to our service.  She said shed been  told that the marker was 
connected to the closure of a joint business account  shed had with NatWest. Ms O told us 
that the other account holder was in dispute  with NatWest over his personal accounts. She 
was unhappy  that the bank had linked this dispute to her. 
Ms O went on to say that the marker placed  against  her by NatWest  had greatly  impacted 
her being  able to get credit and had damaged  her credit record which shed worked hard to 
build and maintain. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case. She thought it should  be upheld. The 
adjudicator could see that one marker had been placed against  the name of Ms Os 
business and another  against her personally.  She could also see that the marker against 
Ms O had been removed  by NatWest in September 2018. 
The adjudicator thought  this marker  against  Ms O should never  have been  recorded against 
her in the first place.  She thought NatWest should pay £350 to compensate her for the 
trouble and upset  shed  been caused.  
Initially Ms O said she wanted compensation of £7,500 from NatWest. She told us that the 
declined loan application  stopped  her carrying out urgent  improvements  and repairs  to her 
new home. 
After, getting the adjudicators view, Ms O told us that NatWests actions had had a 
substantial impact, causing her considerable embarrassment, upset and inconvenience. She 
said she wanted £2,000 compensation as this is what she believed she was entitled to. 
Ms O asked for her complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for a further review. NatWest  
accepted the adjudicators view and agreed  to pay £350 compensation. 
As Ms O didnt  agree  with the adjudicator, this complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. I would make it clear here that I know  our service is also dealing with a complaint 
about the marker being placed  against Ms Os business. That is a separate  issue  to the one 
Im looking  at. I wont be commenting on it further.  My decision is only looking at NatWest 
placing a marker against  Ms O personally. 
Ref: DRN76907862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Ms O has made  numerous arguments about the amount of compensation she 
believes shes entitled to. Im not going to respond  to all these points individually.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here.  
NatWest hasnt disputed  our adjudicators view that the marker should  never  have been  
recorded in the first place. The bank removed this in September  2018. So what  I need to 
decide  and what this decision focusses on  is how much compensation should NatWest  
pay to Ms O for this? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual point to be able to reach what  I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Theres nothing in the available evidence to show  Ms O suffered actual financial loss 
because of the credit marker. But its clear that, as shes  told us, she has experienced upset 
and inconvenience.  
I can see Ms Os ability to get credit was affected  by this issue. She had a loan application 
refused in July 2108. The lender  involved  has confirmed the application was refused 
because of the marker recorded by NatWest.  
But Im not satisfied the marker stopped Ms O being  able to get any credit whatsoever. She 
told our service that she had a re-mortgage application accepted  in March 2018. This was 
around six months after the marked was added. The re-mortgage  allowed Ms O to buy a 
second property  which she moved into in July 2018.  It was this property that needed 
renovating. Clearly, NatWests actions  didnt prevent Ms O being able to buy a second  
property. 
Ms O says that this new property needed  the garage  converting  to a bedroom.  This would 
allow her mother to move in with her. But because the loan was declined,  the work  couldnt 
be done. This meant her mother had to share  a bedroom with her son. I can understand that 
this would have  been far from ideal. 
I would point out here that its Ms O who is NatWests customer.  I can only consider the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused  by the bank, not how it affected other members 
of her family - although I do accept their discomfort would  also have affected Ms O. 
Ms O also said she couldnt renovate the bathroom or carry out other cosmetic work around 
the house. But Im not satisfied this should  have had a significant effect on her. Instead, I 
think the need to upgrade a bathroom is something  that would be common in many, many 
house purchases  and the need or urgency to do this was part and parcel of Ms Os own 
decision to buy this particular property. Also, cosmetic work is just that  cosmetic.  I dont 
think this should  have caused  substantial  distress to Ms O. 
Ref: DRN76907863Ms O told us she moved into the property in July 2018. She was refused a loan at the same 
time. Theres nothing in the available evidence to show Ms O tried to resolve this situation by 
applying elsewhere  for finance. She says she didnt do this because  the lender who refused 
her application  told her she wouldnt be able to get credit elsewhere  because of the marker. 
But in the circumstances here,  if Ms O needed to carry out these home improvements  
urgently, I think it would have been  reasonable to expect her to look elsewhere for the 
finance. Ive looked at the publicly available details  Ms O has registered about her business.  
Currently, this lists her as a director. It also gives her occupation. From  this I can see shes  
experienced in financial  matters and should have had a good understanding of these issues.  
Given the stated  urgency  of these repairs, I think it would have been  reasonable  to expect 
Ms O to have explored all her options to raise  the required money. Theres  no evidence  she 
did this. Even without Ms Os financial services  knowledge, I think  it would have been 
reasonable for her to look at other  borrowing options to raise this urgently needed finance. 
But she chose not to do so, relying  instead on what she says she was told by one individual 
lender. 
I am satisfied that Ms O was caused upset and inconvenience by NatWest. But I dont  agree  
this means the bank  should pay her £2,000 which she believes  shes  entitled to. Instead, in 
the circumstances here,  I think £350 is an appropriate award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay £350 to Ms O. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7690786