K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc took ten months to settle a claim he made  
under his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr M was involved in an incident with another car in July 2017. He reported  the incident  to 
AXA. He complained that AXA failed  to progress his claim and he had to call for updates. 
AXA paid Mr M compensation totalling £175.  Mr M didnt think this was enough, so he asked 
us to look at his complaint. Mr M said he was without a courtesy car for four days while his 
car was being repaired. 
Our investigator recommended AXA pay Mr M an additional £200 compensation. She 
thought AXAs failure to update Mr M had a major impact on him. The investigator  asked  
Mr M to provide proof  of travel expenses  he incurred while without a courtesy car for four 
days  and proof of call costs so that she could consider his financial loss claim further.  
AXA didnt reply  to the investigators findings.  Mr M didnt provide any evidence  of financial 
loss. So the case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
From AXAs file, its clear that it chased the third party insurer  for a reply to deal with Mr Ms 
claim. The third party  insurer failed to reply to AXA for a number of months. 
Mr M didnt  want  to pay his excess in order to have his car repaired until the third party  
admitted liability. 
The next step for AXA to take would be to initiate court proceedings against the third party 
insurer. However, it needed to have an outlay  of its costs which it would look to recover  
through the courts.  As Mr M didnt  have his car repaired, there were no costs  which  AXA 
could pursue the third party insurer for. So all it could do was continue to chase  the third 
party insurer  for a reply.  
I understand Mr M was very frustrated with the length of time it took to resolve his claim. The 
third party insurer accepted liability on a without prejudice basis  in April 2018. I dont think 
AXA is responsible  for the time this took as it was due to the lack of co-operation by the third 
party insurer.
However, its also clear from AXAs file notes that Mr M called  AXA regularly for an update.  
He complained of having  to wait in queue times  sometimes for over an hour, and was 
transferred between departments  only to be told he couldnt be given an update as hed 
been transferred  to the wrong department.  He was promised call backs by AXA that didnt 
materialise. Periods of over a month passed without  updating Mr M.
Ref: DRN78269722AXA accepted that it was reactive to Mr M rather than proactive in keeping him updated. It 
paid Mr M a total of £175 compensation. This was in recognition of the poor service  he 
received while calling AXA and for failing to update him. 
Its not clear from AXAs file as to why Mr M was without a courtesy car for four days.  I think  
that overall the inconvenience and worry caused  by AXAs poor service  could have  been  
reduced if it had kept him updated from August 2017 to May 2018. So I think  it should 
increase the compensation its paid Mr M by a further £200. I think  this is a fair outcome to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr M £200 compensation in addition  to the compensation its 
already paid him for the distress and inconvenience  it caused.
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826972