K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  with the way Society  of Lloyds  (SOL) handled a malicious damage claim 
under her residential  landlord insurance policy and with the settlement it offered her.
background
Mrs T owns two flats in a property which she let out. It appears  the tenant  of the upper flat 
had a woman to stay with her and subsequently  moved into the ground  floor flat. The woman 
had her son stay and he in turn brought a group  of men with him. The flat was badly 
damaged while these people were unlawfully staying there.  In February  2016  the police 
evicted them and the property was passed  back to Mrs T.
She made a claim to SOL. It appointed  a loss adjuster who visited  the property. After  that 
visit there was a break-in  and petrol  was poured  around the property.
SOL said there was a limit of £5,000  on Mrs Ts policy for malicious damage caused by 
tenants but that this didnt apply since the loss adjuster was satisfied that the damage  hadnt 
been caused by her tenants. It said she was covered for a total loss up to the full sum 
insured of the building  at £178,679. It asked her to send  estimates  for the repairs  to the 
property to the loss adjuster for approval. It also asked for a copy of the tenancy agreements  
and the police report.
SOL says that Mrs T sent it the estimates in April 2017 followed by the tenancy agreements  
and the police report almost three months later.
When the loss adjuster  contacted Mrs T to arrange  a further  inspection  of the properties, she 
said that the repairs had already been carried out.
In January 2018 SOL offered £5,000 to settle the claim. It later explained that it had done 
this because it thought that the tenants might have been involved in causing the malicious 
damage and that amount was the limit under the policy for malicious damage caused  by 
tenants.
Mrs T didnt  accept that and complained. She said all the damage had been caused by the 
visitors. She sent receipts and quotations totalling  about £40,000  for repairs.  In July 2018 
SOL offered  Mrs T £18,950 in settlement  of her claim. It said £18,000  was in respect of 
malicious damage to the property and fixtures and £950 was for 8 weeks loss of rent. It said 
that some  damage was due to general wear and tear or neglect. Mrs T still didnt think  that 
was enough. She was also unhappy  with the way her claim had been handled.
Mrs T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She thought  SOL 
should cover  the full cost of all repairs completed  to the property plus interest. She also said 
it should pay loss of rent for the period required to complete all repairs to the property plus 
interest and £250  compensation for delays and poor service.
As SOL didnt agree,  the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is limited, (as it is here 
Ref: DRN72824002with regard to the condition  of the property after the unlawful occupiers had been evicted), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most 
likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider circumstances.
Mrs Ts policy covers  her for malicious  damage. SOL isnt liable to repair any damage 
caused by wear and tear. SOLs loss adjuster reported that:
As previously  advised  it was extremely difficult to assess  what damage was caused 
maliciously and what could be attributed to general  wear and tear neglect. The main areas 
of damage were to the kitchens and bathrooms in both flats.
The police said From our perspect ive there  is no doubt that the dama ge to your property 
was caused  by our suspect s and their friends and not by the tenants.
Having considered the photos of the damage and the circumstances surrounding that I think  
its fair to say that there  was some wear and tear at the property as Mrs T accepts  but by far 
the greatest  part of the damage  resulted  from malicious damage  rather  than wear and tear. 
For example, petrol was poured  over the property  and the elect rical sockets were 
stuffed  with drugs. From the evidence provided  I think its impossible to isolate any repairs  
which were primarily  because  of wear and tear and its likely that both flats needed to be 
completely refurbished. So in order to treat Mrs T fairly  I think SOL should pay for all the 
repairs.
I appreciate that Mrs T didnt follow the correct procedure in submitting her estimates to SOL 
for approval  before carrying out the work. SOL could have saved money if it had used its 
own contractor to carry out the works  but the loss adjuster  appeared to rule this out by 
asking Mrs T to get her own estimates. Having seen the estimates SOL didnt seem to think 
they were unreasonable in themselves. Its only query was that some  of the work might have 
been in respect  of general refurbishment which Ive already discussed above.  So I think  it 
would be reasonable for SOL to pay for all the work  that Mrs T had carried out to the flats as 
detailed in the estimates subject to her providing satisfactory evidence of what  she has 
actually paid. I also think it would  be fair for SOL to pay interest on that amount from the 
date of payment  to actual settlement.
Mrs Ts policy also covers  her for loss of rent while the property couldnt be lived in due to 
the malicious damage. SOL paid her 12 weeks loss of rent (increased from the original 8). It 
said it thought  this was a reasonable period  for any works to be carried  out. 
There were delays on both SOL and Mrs Ts part in dealing with this claim, so I can see that 
it wouldnt be reasonable to require SOL to pay loss of rent until the flats were actually ready 
to be lived in again. But on the other hand the local authority gave Mrs T 12 months 
exemption from paying council tax due to the state  of the property.  The contamination by 
petrol added another complication. The gas and electricity supplies were condemned as 
unsafe to use. All this leads to me think that 12 weeks would probably not be enough time 
for Mrs T to refurbish  both properties and have them ready for new tenants to move  into. I 
think SOL should reconsider  the loss of rent claim taking into account information from Mrs T 
as to how long the works  did take and the assessment of its loss adjuster as to how long the 
works covered by this claim should  have taken. It should also pay interest on the amount 
due from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN72824003Finally there were some delays on the part of SOL in dealing with this claim. Also I think it 
caused unnecessary  trouble and upset  to Mrs T by making an unreasonably low initial offer 
to settle her claim. Overall I think the sum of £250 is appropriate to compensate her for this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Society  of Lloyds  to:
pay for all the work that Mrs T had carried out to the flats as detailed  in the estimates 
subject to her providing satisfactory evidence of what  she has actually paid plus interest* 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
reconsider the loss of rent claim, taking into account information  from Mrs T as to how 
long the works did take and the assessment  of its loss adjuster as to how long the works  
covered by this claim should have taken plus interest*  from the date of the loss to the 
date of the settlement; and
pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Society  of Lloyds 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs T, it should tell her 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7282400