K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) cancelled his business protection 
insurance policy, and declined a retrospective  claim made under the public liability  part of 
the policy.
background
Mr H owns a farm and had the benefit  of a business  protection insurance policy   
underwritten by UKI  which hed renewed annually over a number of years. In May 2018,  
UKI gave  Mr H 14 days notice that it would  be cancelling that policy  part way through  the 
policy year,  February  2018 to February 2019.  That notice period was subsequently extended 
by a couple of weeks.  
UKI cancelled the policy because  Mr H only notified  it of a personal  injury claim which  had 
been brought against him in April 2018; the circumstances  of which  he was first made aware 
of in February 2015. Court proceedings were issued  in October  2017,  and served on him in 
January 2018.
UKI also declined  to cover the costs of defending that claim under the public liability  
insurance section  of the policy that was in force  at the time the alleged personal injury  was 
said to have taken  place. UKI says its been  prejudiced by the late notification of the claim.
Mr H says he thought  the letters hed received setting out the circumstances of the personal 
injury claim from the claimants legal  representatives   which  was alleged to have  taken 
place at his property in October  2014 - were part of a scam. He says the purported injury  
took place on a date he hadnt received  any deliveries, that the letter wasnt personally 
addressed to him (just the occupier) and his courtyard was described  as being cobbled  
when it was not. Thats why he didnt notify UKI, even though he was advised to do so in the 
letters. 
Unhappy, Mr H complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong  so didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagreed and his complaint has 
now been passed to me to consider everything  afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When doing so, Ive taken into account the applicable law in the area. Mr H had the benefit 
of a commercial insurance  policy and at the point  it renewed in 2018,  the Insurance Act 2015 
(the Act) was in force. In the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im satisfied that its 
fair and reasonable for me to consider what happened, and whether UKI did anything wrong, 
in light of both parties  obligations under the Act. Mr H ran a commercial enterprise,  a farm, 
which comprised 200 acres of land and he says he had almost 50 beef cattle - and he was 
taking out a business protection  policy, which  is a commercial policy.  
The Act says before  a new contract  of insurance  is entered into  including at renewal - the 
policyholder must make  a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer.  This is known as the 
duty of fair presentation which means:
Ref: DRN73607432disclosure  of every material circumstance which they knew  or ought to know  about, 
or, failing  that:
disclosure  which  gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent  insurer on 
notice that it needs  to make further  enquiries  for the purpose  of revealing those 
material circumstances.
There are some exceptions which dont apply to the circumstances of this particular 
complaint so I havent gone on to discuss them here. 
Under the Act, if a policyholder breaches their duty of fair presentation, and this had an 
effect on the policy, the insurer can avoid  the policy (without returning the premiums that 
have been paid)   but thats  only if the insurer can show that the policyholder has breached 
their duty either deliberately or recklessly. Thats to say the policyholder knew  that they were 
in breach of the duty of fair representation, or didnt care whether or not there had been a 
breach of that duty. If the insurer is unable to establish this, but the policyholder has 
breached its duty of fair representation, the insurer may still be able to avoid the policy   but 
its required, in those circumstances, to return the premiums paid by the policyholder for the 
insurance.
Im satisfied that Mr H breached his obligation to fairly represent  the risk to UKI before 
renewing his policy  was in February  2018. I also think UKI has been able to establish that 
the breach was reckless on the balance  of probabilities - that is to say that when renewing 
the policy in February  2018 Mr H didnt care whether or not there had been a breach of that 
duty. Thats because:
Mr H received a letter  in February  2015 - from a firm of solicitors (the law firm) - 
setting out the details  of the claim against  him. Towards the start of the letter he was 
advised to pass  the communication to his insurers as soon as possible and if it was 
not provided to his insurers, it could affect his cover. This section of the letter  was 
underlined. Mr H accepts he received this letter. 
When the law firm didnt receive  a response, it sent chaser letters  in March and June 
2015. They  also advised Mr H to notify  his insurers of the letter, setting out the basis 
of the proposed claim against him. And in a letter dated September  2015, Mr H was 
advised that unless he provided  the law firm with details of his insurer,  it would 
presume that he was uninsured and would proceed to take legal action against him 
personally. Mr H didnt  reply  to those letters.
The letter serving Mr H with court proceedings is dated  24 January 2018 and Mr H 
accepts he received this  thats around two weeks before the policy  was renewed in 
February 2018. This related  to the proposed claim that hed been made  aware of in 
2015. Mr H didnt  disclose  this to UKI before renewing the policy.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all of Mr Hs comments including what he 
says about believing the letters hed received  from the law firm were part of a scam,  some of 
the letters only being addressed to the occupier (and not him personally) and some factual 
inaccuracies in the contents of the letters. However, Im not satisfied the points raised by 
Mr H detract from correspondence that was sent from a firm of solicitors, setting out personal 
details of the claimant including his name, address  date of birth,  national  insurance  number, 
his employer and the hospital attended  and advising him to confirm the identity of his 
insurer and for him to pass  the letters to them. Further, by the time he came  to renew the 
policy in February 2018, hed received the court claim, so by that stage, I think  Mr H 
Ref: DRN73607433shouldve known that the claim wasnt part of a scam and that he recklessly breached his 
duty to make  a fair representation of the risk to UKI. 
UKI says it wouldnt have offered renewal of the policy in February 2018 had Mr H disclosed 
the circumstances of the claim  at that time. It says it wouldve  concluded that Mr Hs failure  
to disclose the letters from the law firm around  the time he received them  in 2015  and the 
circumstances of the proposed claim against him  was deliberate.  And as such  had he 
disclosed the fact, and the contents, of the letters before renewal in February 2018, it 
wouldnt have renewed the policy. I dont think that wouldve been an unfair or unreasonable  
decision in the circumstances of this complaint, particularly as court proceedings had been 
issued by this time,  so Im prepared to accept  what it says about that. 
However, rather than avoid the policy,  which I think it couldve reasonably decided to do in 
this case, UKI opted to cancel it with effect of June 2018. Thats because it says this would 
have less of an impact on Mr H when looking for an alternative insurance  policy  going 
forwards. I dont think thats  unfair  or unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint - 
particularly as it provided Mr H with 14 days notice of its decision (which was subsequently 
extended by a further 14 days) and it repaid Mr H a proportion of the premium (including 
insurance premium tax) to represent  the time left on the policy  - meaning he only paid for the 
period of time he actually had the benefit of the policy for in 2018. 
Im also satisfied UKI has fairly declined the claim  Mr H sought to retrospectively  make on 
the public  insurance part of the policy in force at the time the alleged personal  injury took 
place in October 2014. Although the policy can cover the legal costs of representing Mr H in 
the defence of such a claim  cover is subject  to the terms of the policy.
There are several conditions of the policy which were in place at the time including that Mr H 
must:
 tell UKI as soon  as reasonably possible of any event  or occurrence which may result 
in a claim. 
 immediately pass to UKI, unanswered, all communications from third parties in 
relation to any event  which may result in a claim under this policy; and
 provide UKI with a written claim containing as much information as possible within 
30 days of the incident
Im satisfied Mr H breached those conditions.  So Ive thought about whether UKI has acted 
fairly and reasonably by relying on those  breaches  not to cover  the claim.
As Ive said,  Mr H first received notification of the circumstances of the proposed claim 
against him in early  2015 and he didnt  seek to make a claim under the policy to cover the 
costs of him being  legally  represented to respond  to, or defend, that claim until April 2018; 
over three years later.  By that time, legal proceedings had been served against him and a 
default judgment had been entered.
As a result, UKI has said Mr Hs failure  to satisfy those conditions   and the late notification  
of the claim - resulted in it being  unable to:
sufficiently investigate  the claim in a timely  manner
come  to a reasonable decision with regards to liability
make  an appropriate  decision  on liability
Ref: DRN73607434Im persuaded by what UKI says about  its position  being prejudiced by these things. Mr H 
had been aware  of the circumstances of the proposed claim against him for a number  of 
years and didnt respond to any correspondence,  or notify his insurers  at any time before 
April 2018 of the proposed claim or when  court proceedings  were served against him and a 
defence was due to be filed.  This prevented the parties trying  to resolve the dispute amicably 
before legal action  was taken. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 19 March 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7360743