K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  because  U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt accepted a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under her travel  insurance  policy. 
All references to UKI include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.  
background
Ms K holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit  of her bank account. The policy  is provided 
by UKI.
Unfortunately, Ms K suffers from a medical condition which  affects her memory. Ms K first 
sought medical advice about her memory  problems in November 2018 and was referred to a 
memory clinic.  
Ms K was seen in the memory clinic in December 2018. Later that month,  Ms K booked  a 
holiday for herself but, shortly before she was due to travel, she received a diagnosis for the 
memory symptoms shed been  experiencing.
Ms Ks husband cancelled  the holiday and made a claim to UKI on Ms Ks behalf. 
UKI said the claim wasnt covered because it related to a pre-existing medical condition, and 
paid Ms K £40 compensation for the way the claim  had been handled. 
Ms Ks husband then brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator said she didnt 
think UKI had incorrectly declined the claim  but Ms K didnt agree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Ms Ks illness and I understand UKIs  refusal  to accept this claim will 
have been upsetting at an already  difficult  time. 
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ks policy say;
Medical Declaration
When you become  an insured person  or when you book a trip (whichever is 
later):
You must tell us about each pre-existing  medical condition for any insured  
person. This is any medical condition  for which you:
have received advice,  treatment or a prescription for medication (whether taking it 
or not) from a doctor  during the last 12 months;
are under investigation or are awaiting  diagnosis;
Ref: DRN74230982I understand that when Ms K visited the doctor in November 2018 she had no idea what the 
cause of her memory  lapses could be. But her insurance policy requires her to tell UKI if she 
is under  investigation or awaiting diagnosis for a medical condition. 
Terms like this are common in most, if not all, travel  insurance policies because  insurers 
dont want to accept  all risks and generally  limit the level of risk they take on for medical 
issues which are ongoing but undiagnosed  when a holiday is booked.
At the time of booking  her holiday,  Ms K had already been  referred  to and seen for a first 
assessment in a memory clinic. So, Ms K was under investigation for a medical condition,  
which UKI was entitled to know about.  If Ms K had told UKI she was under investigation for a 
medical condition  before she booked her holiday,  UKI would have said thered be no cover  
for any claims linked  to these investigations.  
Ive taken into account that the nature of Ms Ks illness  means she might not have been 
aware of the policy wording and therefore  might  not have known she needed  to tell UKI 
about her referral. Ive also considered what Ms Ks husband has said about Ms K being in 
denial and that he didnt know she had booked and paid for a holiday.
I need to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable to both parties.  While  Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms K, her claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions  of her policy and I 
dont think it would be fair to ask UKI to pay it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7423098