K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva)  declined a claim she made  for alternative  
flights under  her travel insurance policy.
background
Mrs B and her family were on holiday when their airline started to cancel flights. Mrs B called  
Aviva to see if they were  covered for new flights home, if theirs  were cancelled. As they 
hadnt yet been cancelled,  Aviva  wasnt able to confirm this.
The airline subsequently cancelled the flight and Mrs B purchased  new flights  home. She 
tried to claim  the cost from Aviva,  but they said it wasnt a covered event under her policy, so 
they declined  the claim.
Mrs B complained to Aviva and their decision remained  that the claim wasnt  covered under  
her policy.
Mrs B was unhappy with Avivas response and approached this service.
Our investigator looked at everything  but didnt uphold the complaint. She said that there 
wasnt any policy cover  for what had happened, so she couldnt ask Aviva to pay the claim.  
She also said she didnt  think  the advisor had acted unreasonably when Mrs B had called,  
as the flight hadnt yet been cancelled.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs B is unhappy that Aviva couldnt say whether she would be covered for alternative flights 
when she contacted them. She says that if Aviva  had told her they werent covered, she 
couldve bought  cheaper flights home.
Having listened  to the call with Avivas  claims team, Mrs B explained that the airline  was 
cancelling flights,  and whilst hers hadnt yet been  cancelled, it was likely to be. She asked if 
there would be cover  for alternative flights if hers were cancelled.
The agent  had a look at the policy, but wasnt able confirm cover as the cancellation hadnt 
yet occurred, so it was a hypothetical situation  at that time.  They  explained that once it had 
been cancelled  and the specific reasons and any alternatives offered were known, then 
Mrs B should call back to discuss whether there  was any cover  under her policy,  based on 
the exact circumstances.
Ref: DRN74117322Under Mrs Bs policy an alternative flight might  be covered, but only in specific 
circumstances. For example in a medical  emergency and being unable to travel on the 
original booked flight. Aviva could  have managed expectations  around what  types of 
situations might be covered, as they had the policy terms,  which say when a claim could  be 
made. 
But in order to say for certain if the policy would  provide cover, or if there was anything  
further Aviva  could do, they needed the specific reason, and to know any alternatives that 
had been offered by the airline. This is why Aviva said to call back if and when the flight had 
been cancelled.  So I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably by not confirming definitively at 
that stage that Mrs Bs flights  werent  covered.
The call was left that Mrs B would call back if and when her flights were cancelled  to see if 
they were covered. Mr B, who also spoke to Avivas claim handler, confirmed they wouldnt 
be booking flights until theirs were  cancelled. However Mrs B didnt  call Aviva when they 
were cancelled and alternative flights were  booked via her travel agent.
Mrs B has said that the policy doesnt specifically exclude the circumstances which  led to her 
needing to buy new flights. She also says that you cant have a clause  which says anything  
not specifically  covered  is excluded, so Aviva should pay the claim.
However I dont agree  with Mrs B here. Most travel insurance policies (including the policy 
Mrs B bought from Aviva)  will list a number of insured events which are covered, and 
attached to those  specific  events are exclusions. So if the event that happens is specifically  
listed as covered by the policy, and there isnt an exclusion which means  it shouldnt  be paid, 
then the insurer  will pay out.
Mrs Bs policy lists when  a claim can be made  for alternative flights  to come home early. 
Under the abandoning your holiday section, it says the following  circumstances  are covered:
1. You are inured, fall ill, are quarantined or die.
2. One of the following  people is seriously  injured, falls seriously ill or dies;
a) a close relative; or
b) a close business  colleague; or
c) the person you were going to stay with.
3. Your home is made uninhabitable by fire, storm or severe/adverse  weather.
4. The police  need to talk to you because your home or place of work  has been 
burgled.
5. You are the victim of a violent crime which has been dealt with by the police.
6. You are a member  of the HM Armed Forces, the Emergency Services or a 
Government Department and leave is cancelled  due to an unexpected  posting or an 
emergency in the UK.
Therefore it is only in these circumstances  which  a claim  can be made  for alternative flights  
to come home early, and these situations arent what happened to Mrs B.
Sometimes policies are available on the insurance market, known as all risk. What  this 
means is that they cover every event  that may happen, unless it is specifically excluded.  
These policies are generally considerably  more  expensive  than a policy  which only covers  
specific events. As Mrs Bs policy only covers specific  listed  events, and it isnt all risk, I cant 
agree that the claim should be covered just because it isnt listed as excluded.
Ref: DRN74117323Having looked  at the full policy  terms and conditions, it doesnt  appear that any part, 
including the cancellation or abandonment sections, would cover  the circumstances Mrs B 
found herself in. Whilst I sympathise with this, Im unable to say Aviva has acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7411732