K820x#14complaint
Ms As complaint is that she was mis-sold  an insurance policy  by Experian  Limited.  
background
Ms A agreed to a free trial of a service provided by Experian in 2013. After  the initial free trial 
period of 30 days, she continued with the service paying £14.99  in August, September  and 
October 2013. I understand she cancelled the agreement after that. 
Ms A says that she didnt realise at the time that part of the subscription (£5) was a premium  
for identity  theft insurance, which she says she didnt ask for or want  and this was therefore 
mis-sold to her. Ms A is also unhappy  that she paid for the subscription  at all as she was 
able to check her credit  files without  charge  elsewhere and so says she was mis-sold the 
whole package. 
Experian does  not accept  that the insurance  was mis-sold but agreed to reimburse Ms A the 
cots of the insurance she paid together with interest  (i.e. a total of £21.75)  which  it has 
already sent to Ms A. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and did not recommend it be upheld,  as she 
thought this was fair and reasonable.
Ms A doesnt accept  the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
She wants a full refund of the payments she made  to Experian and compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We arent able to consider every complaint thats brought to us. Were  governed  by rules 
called the DISP Rules, which can be found  in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  (FCAs) 
Handbook. In order for us to be allowed to look at a complaint, it has to be about an activity 
by the business which the DISP rules say is a regulated activity. The activities listed as 
regulated activities  include the sale of insurance policies, but dont include providing access 
to credit reports. 
This means  that I cant make any findings or award about the part of the subscription 
payments that were  not for the insurance cover. 
Experian has already offered to refund the part of the premiums that were for the insurance, 
together with interest. The same subscription  was available for £9.99 per month, without the 
insurance element.  This is what I would award  if I found the insurance cover had been mis-
sold. This is because if I am satisfied  that a customer  didnt want or shouldnt  have been sold 
a policy, it is right to put them back in the position they would have been  in had that policy  
never been sold to them   by refunding what  they have paid for it together with interest.  As 
this has already been done, I do not need to analyse  the way the policy was sold, as I would 
not award any more  than Ms A has already  received, even if I found in her favour.  As stated  
I have no power to award a refund of the other  part of the subscription, that was not for the 
insurance. 
Ref: DRN71480562I also have the power  to award additional  compensation to reflect any material distress or 
inconvenience caused to a consumer  by something Experian has done wrong (in relation to 
a regulated activity).  This does not normally include the mere  fact that a consumer has felt 
the need to make a complaint. I have no power to punish or fine Experian, any such award 
has to be commensurate with any material distress or inconvenience suffered by Ms A. I am 
not persuaded that there has been any material distress or inconvenience,  such  as would 
warrant an award of compensation in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as I consider Experian  Limited has already made  an offer in full 
and final settlement of the complaint, which is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7148056