K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr C took out one Uncle Buck loan in August 2018.  He borrowed £500 and he was due to 
repay this over 6 instalments  although as far as I am aware, he hasnt made any 
repayments.
Mr C told us that Uncle Buck provided  the loan without making sufficient credit checks when 
he already had existing short term loans with other  lenders and he was at his overdraft limit. 
Mr C is also unhappy with the way Uncle Buck has managed the complaint.  
Our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable that Uncle Buck  provided this loan and didnt 
uphold the complaint. He felt that (in brief summary):
given the amount  of the loan,  what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time and his lack of any history  with the lender at that stage, it wouldnt have been 
proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask him for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable
there wasnt anything  in the information Mr C provided, or the information Uncle Buck  
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr C said about  his finances
as this was Mr Cs first loan with Uncle Buck there was no established pattern of 
borrowing at that stage which mightve  indicated  the borrowing was unsustainable
 
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that Uncle  Buck hadnt properly 
considered this loan application or done sufficient checks to find out why someone  who had 
reported the income and expenditure figures  Mr C provided still needed to borrow such 
expensive credit.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN76929312But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked Mr C to 
provide details of his income and to tell Uncle Buck what  he normally  spent each  month. 
As well as this, Uncle Buck carried out credit  checks  which it says confirmed that the 
monthly income figure Mr C provided (£1000)  was accurate.
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks. Uncle Buck  could have seen that Mr C 
had three  other short term high cost loans outstanding when he asked  to borrow this loan 
from Uncle Buck. 
Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck says,  as a high-risk lender,  even  if a credit file 
contains certain adverse information,  it would  still consider lending.  
Looking at what Uncle Buck knew about Mr Cs income  and expenditure, those figures 
suggest that the loan amount ought to have  been  affordable. But I think  the information 
shown on the credit checks it did shouldve made Uncle Buck realise  that being affordable 
on a pounds and pence basis didn't necessarily mean that Mr C could afford to repay this 
borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN76929313I say this because  I think  that the extent of Mr Cs active  debt, including with other payday 
lenders when he asked Uncle Buck for this loan, shouldve made Uncle Buck  realise that he 
was having money  problems.  
I think it shouldve been apparent to Uncle Buck that Mr Cs actual  financial  circumstances  
didn't reflect what  his income and expenditure figures alone suggested. 
I think Uncle Buck shouldve realised that Mr C probably wasnt  asking it for a loan just to 
provide a short term fix for his cash flow problems or to cover an unexpected expense. To 
my mind, the information  Uncle  Buck had available shouldve made Uncle  Buck realise  that 
there was a risk that Mr C was reliant  on taking out expensive credit  just to get by month to 
month. So it was unlikely that Mr C was going  to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable 
way.
I think that ought to have  prompted Uncle Buck to decline  Mr Cs application. I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to conclude that it was likely  Mr C would be able to repay 
this, or any subsequent  loan, in a sustainable  manner.  
And this is borne out by whats shown  on bank statements Mr C has provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  
To be clear, Im not suggesting  that Uncle Buck shouldve  asked  to see these bank 
statements. But they give a reasonable insight into Mr Cs finances  at the time. They  confirm  
that Mr Cs finances  were stretched. On top of his other payday loans and other  debt, hed 
also already taken full advantage of his £1000  overdraft  and given that this was the 
amount of a months pay for Mr C, Im satisfied that this additional  information  supports the 
conclusion I reached  above when I said that Mr C probably wasnt  going  to be able to 
affordably repay any more borrowing.
For these reasons, Im planning on upholding the complaint about this loan.
In coming to my view, Ive also looked at the way Uncle Buck  has dealt with this complaint.  
Uncle Buck  agreed  to discuss settlement  terms when Mr C made  proposals  to pay. And 
when that didn't lead to the complaint  being settled, it voluntarily agreed to Mr Cs request to 
put the account on hold pending my decision. I accept it took some time to get to this point, 
but I dont think  I can fairly say that Uncle Buck acted unreasonably. I appreciate that Mr C is 
unhappy with the service  he has received from Uncle Buck  in the course  of it responding to 
his complaint. But overall, although  its clear this has caused him some  frustration, I dont 
consider theres  sufficient  reason to award Mr C any additional payment for this, on top of 
the steps Im proposing to tell Uncle Buck to take.
Ref: DRN76929314what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr C agrees with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Uncle Buck  has confirmed it has nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what the lender should  do
If Uncle Buck has sold Mr Cs debt to a third party it should either buy back the debt and 
carry out these directions  or ask the debt purchaser to do the same.  
remove any outstanding interest and charges from the loan and treat any repayments  
made by Mr C (if any) as payments  towards the capital.  
when Uncle Buck works out what it owes Mr C, it can apply this towards offsetting the 
outstanding capital balance Mr C owes on the loan 
I remind Uncle Buck that it should  take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree  an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C if he wishes for time to pay 
in the event there is any surplus owing to Mr C, then Uncle  Buck should return  this to 
Mr C with 8% simple  interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement
Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in 
relation to this loan when it is repaid.
Ref: DRN76929315 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7692931