K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) wont compensate him fully for poor 
customer service  and delays in connection with repairs  it arranged for his car under his 
motor insurance policy.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 January 2019, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. Allianz  responded to say, in summary, that:
it hadnt seen  any evidence of the cost difference to Mr S between  hiring  a vehicle 
with a towbar and hiring a vehicle without  a towbar. It thought the difference  would 
have been minimal.  It queried whether it was more cost effective for Mr S to pay 
someone £900 to undertake work on his behalf than to hire a vehicle with a towbar;
it hadnt seen  any evidence that Mr S had to cancel several  jobs that resulted in him 
losing earnings  of £4,600, or that he didnt carry out this work at a later date;
it didnt accept Mr S had mitigated his losses;
it hadnt seen  any supporting evidence  to demonstrate a financial impact on Mr Ss 
business, that he couldnt pay his suppliers,  suppliers withdrawing credit from him, or 
increased interest charges on Mr S because  he had to use his credit  card;  and
it supplied a detailed  timeline from the repairers  showing  the difficulties they had in 
carrying out the repairs and obtaining parts.  It thought the compensation awarded in 
respect of the time the repairs  took was excessive.
At my request, the investigator asked Mr S to comment on his hiring of a vehicle without a 
towbar, and his loss of earnings of £4,600.
hiring a vehicle without a towbar
Mr S said that when it became apparent he would have to hire a vehicle, he went online to 
see what it would cost to hire an equivalent  of his own vehicle.  The cost seemed to be about  
£1,000 a week. So over the six week period this would have been some £6,000 compared 
with the £1,023.26 he eventually paid and which Allianz ultimately reimbursed.
On the basis of those  figures, Mr Ss decided to pay the cheaper  figure  for a van without a 
towbar, and pay someone for help when needed as the most economical  way of continuing 
to work without losing  more work.
loss of earnings
Mr S had already  quoted for the work in respect  of which  he claims loss of earnings of 
£4,600. He has supplied these quotations  to us. When these customers decided  to go ahead 
with the works, Mr S would have had no choice  but to increase these quotes  significantly to 
allow for the vehicle  hire or for expensive skips to be added to the jobs.  He knew the 
Ref: DRN77565182customers wouldnt have been  prepared to pay more, and in fact had already beaten down  
their quotes  as far as Mr S could  go.
As for the suggestion he could have  completed  these jobs at a later date, Mr S says he has 
lost work  completely  from two of the customers concerned, one of which was a regular 
customer who ended up getting someone  else to do their work. Another  Mr S never heard 
from again, and the third decided to undertake the work themselves.
During this time, Mr S wasnt aware  that he would eventually be provided  with another 
vehicle by Allianzs agents.  He says he was simply trying to continue with his work as best 
he could and wasnt in a position to commit to hiring  such expensive vehicles that cost more  
per week  to hire than his weekly  income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the issues Allianz has raised in its response:
I accept that Mr S thought hiring  a vehicle without a towbar and paying someone for 
help when needed was the most  economical way of continuing to work without losing 
more work. This doesnt seem to me to have been an unreasonable decision.  Allianz  
has already reimbursed the cost of hiring  the vehicle, and I think its reasonable that it 
should also reimburse the £900  it cost Mr S for the additional help;
I accept Mr Ss evidence in relation to the work  he had quoted for, and that without a 
suitable vehicle  he wasnt in a position to proceed with the work. So I think its fair 
and reasonable that Allianz  reimburse him £4,600 in respect of his loss of earnings  
for this work;
I think Mr S acted  reasonably with a view to mitigating his losses;
in relation to the financial impact the lack of a suitable vehicle had on Mr S and his 
business, I mentioned  in my decision what Mr S had said in this regard.  Mr S didnt 
supply any figures  to support an actual financial loss, so I havent asked Allianz to 
pay a specific figure  to Mr S for this. However  I accept that there was a financial 
impact on his business and this increased the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered. I have taken  this into account in arriving at the compensation figure Allianz  
should pay Mr S for distress and inconvenience;  and
I have noted  the detailed  timeline that Allianz  has supplied, and the difficulties its 
repairer was working under. However  I still think it was unreasonable  that it took 
nearly six months for the repairs  to be completed and the car to be returned to Mr S.
Taking account of the length  of the delays, the constant chasing  Mr S had to do, the effect 
on his business  and finances,  and the strain this put on Mr S himself, I remain of the view 
that an appropriate figure for the distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered is £750. 
Ref: DRN77565183my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order  Allianz 
Insurance Plc:
1.to reimburse Mr S the £900 he had to pay for towbar use, and the £4,600 loss of 
earnings he suffered;  and
2.to pay Mr S £750 for the distress  and inconvenience it caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7756518