K821x#15complaint 
Mr L complains  that Intelligent Pensions Ltd failed to process a pension  transfer  from his 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) in a timely manner. As a result he missed  the deadline  
to receive the guaranteed  transfer value. The subsequent  transfer value was lower.  So he 
considers hes suffered  a financial loss because of the firms delays.
background
Mr Ls transfer of benefits document from the OPS administrators was dated  7 February 
2017. It said:
A Transfer agreement. This needs to be filled in and signed by you and a representative of 
the new plan.  Please  return  the form to us before  7 May 2017 which is three  months from 
the guarantee date.
If we receive the Transfer  agreement and financial advice confirmation  after the guarantee 
expiry date of 7 May 2017, we will work  out the transfer value again and it may be higher or 
lower than the value  quoted on the enclosed statement of entitlement .
The transfer agreement  form said, amongst  other things:
To be filled in by the administrators of the receiving pension plan
Transfer out process (DB)
Completed Transfer out documents received:
[The OPS  administrators] wlll check that the following documentation has been received and 
is complete:
 Transfer  agreement form (completed  by the receiving pension plan and signed by both the 
member and the receiving  plan)
 Copy  of the receiving plan's Current Scheme Details' screen print from the HMRC website
 Copy  of member's passport (and other  documents if living  abroad)
 Financial advice  declaration form (if the transfer value is more than £30,000).
Missing information or forms
If any of the above  requirements are not received or are incomplete, [the OPS 
administrators] will request the missing information,  which will delay the transfer process.
Mr L met with an adviser from Intelligent  Pensions  on 21 February 2017 to discuss the 
matter. 
Intelligent Pensions  requested  scheme information from the administrators of the OPS on 
24 April 2017. It also e-mailed Mr L about  a lifetime allowance issue and he replied on the 
same day.
Intelligent Pensions  issued its report and recommendations on 27 April 2017. Mr L returned  
the declaration  form on the same day.
Ref: DRN71389762Intelligent Pensions  called  the administrators on 2 May 2017.  Its said it asked what it 
required for the transfer to be secured and the administrators said they only needed the 
advice certificate and member section  of the transfer  agreement form to secure the transfer  
value.
Intelligent Pensions  e-mailed the administrators scanned copies of the Financial Advice  
Certificate, Member Declaration  and Letter  of Authority on 3 May 2017.
The administrators  e-mailed Intelligent Pensions on 8 May 2017.  It said that it couldnt 
secure the transfer value. This was because it hadnt received the transfer agreement form 
from the receiving scheme.  It said the transfer  value  would need to be recalculated. 
All the relevant paperwork was subsequently  completed and exchanged. And the transfer 
went ahead  in early  June 2017. The transfer value was £1,003,121, compared to the original 
guaranteed transfer value of £1,036,543.
Mr L complained to Intelligent Pensions  as he thought the lower transfer value was a result 
of its delays. And he subsequently  referred  the matter to us. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. She thought that it should  be upheld.  She 
didnt think there was any justifiable reason why Intelligent Pensions hadnt started work on 
the transfer until 24 April 2017. She thought if it had started work on it shortly  after the 21 
February 2017 meeting it would have been completed in time to secure the guaranteed 
transfer value;  even with the delays caused by the missing information.  She also noted that 
the administrators had clearly said in its paperwork it may need to request information if any 
was missing. She thought Intelligent Pensions  should have been aware of what information 
was required to complete  the transfer  within the guarantee  period. 
Intelligent Pensions  didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Although it accepted that 
the administrators original paperwork provided details of what  documents  it required, it said 
its standard process was to contact the OPS by telephone to verify the requirements prior to 
submitting the paperwork. It had called the administrators  on 2 May 2017 and had been told 
what paperwork was needed.  It had acted in good faith and provided the information that it 
had been told was required.  It didnt  think it was responsible for Mr Ls monetary loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, and largely  for the same reasons.
Intelligent Pensions  was aware  of Mr Ls intentions to transfer at the meeting with him on 
21 February 2017. It would have  known that the transfer process was time sensitive and that 
there was a deadline to meet. The meeting  was held within a reasonable timeframe of the 
start date of the 3 month guarantee period   7 February 2017. So Intelligent Pensions had a 
period of just over ten weeks to arrange for all the paperwork to be completed and 
exchanged. However it appears to have done  little to progress the matter until it requested  
scheme information from the OPS on 24 April 2017;  almost nine weeks into the time that 
was available  to secure the guaranteed transfer  value.  
Intelligent Pensions  ought to have been  aware and alert to the fact that securing the transfer 
value was time critical. In my view it didnt act reasonably in waiting several weeks  before 
Ref: DRN71389763requesting the scheme information.  I think against this background, its clear  it failed to act in 
a timely  manner. 
Intelligent Pensions  has said it isnt responsible for the loss to Mr L because  it provided the 
documentation that the administrator had asked  for when it called it on 2 May 2017. And it 
did so before the 7 May 2017 deadline.
2 May 2017  was a Tuesday and the deadline was on a Sunday. The administrators didnt 
identify that something  was missing until 8 May when  the guarantee date had passed  
albeit its said it dealt  with the paperwork within its agreed service  timescales.  Its also said 
there wasnt a recording  of the telephone  conversation  on 2 May 2017.
Even if I accept that Intelligent Pensions wasnt given accurate information  in its 2 May 
telephone call, it had already been clearly  alerted what was required much earlier in the 
process. And the risk that there could be a problem that wasnt possible to rectify in time 
increased the closer  to the deadline date that the paperwork was submitted. This was a 
foreseeable risk.  By leaving it so late, there  was very little time to resolve matters if there 
was a problem.  
I think the matter needs to be considered  in this context. The administrators  had set out the 
requirements to secure the guaranteed transfer value in its original documentation.  
Intelligent Pensions  had failed to move  the transfer  forward for almost  nine weeks. In my 
view, if it had acted  in an efficient and timely manner from outset, any information  that was 
missing in order to complete the process and secure  the guaranteed  transfer value  would 
have been identified much earlier and allowed any of the parties to provide it within time.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Mr L received  a lower transfer value as a result of the poor 
level of service provided by Intelligent  Pensions  Ltd. Therefore Im satisfied that Mr Ls 
complaint should  succeed. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I order Intelligent Pensions Ltd to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr L as described 
below. 
Intelligent Pensions  Ltd should calculate the growth  (or loss)  on the value of the additional 
£33,422.65 as at the date of this decision, assuming it had been received by the transferring 
scheme at the same  time as the main transfer  value, and invested  proportionally  in the same  
manner. I think for the purposes of calculating fair compensation  its reasonable to use the 
same transfer date. 
The compensatable loss is the value  of the £33,422.65 at the date of this decision 
plus/minus any growth/loss.   
Mr L has Fixed Protection and therefore compensation should not be paid into his pension. It 
should be paid directly to Mr L. A deduction  should  be made to allow for the income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid on the income taken from the pension. As its likely that    
Mr L will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, it should assume he would have paid  
income tax at the rate of 20% on 75% of the compensation (as he would be able to take 25% 
tax free); effectively a 15% deduction  overall.  
Ref: DRN71389764Additional interest  at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added  to the compensation  
calculated as at the date of final decision to the date of settlement (but only if compensation is not 
paid within  28 days of the business being notified  of acceptance of the final decision).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7138976