K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Amtrust  Europe Limited (Amtrust)  unfairly declined  a theft claim he made on 
his caravan insurance policy.
background
In April 2017, Mr B took out an insurance policy for his caravan through a broker.  The policy  
was provided by Amtrust.
In April 2018, unfortunately  Mr Bs caravan was stolen from its storage location. Amtrust 
considered a theft claim but declined it. It said Mr B parked his caravan in a communal area, 
and this was excluded under the policy terms. It also said it wouldnt have provided  cover if 
Mr B had declared he parked his caravan in a communal  area.  The policy  lapsed  at the end 
of the month when  it was up for renewal.  
Mr B complained the caravan  was parked on a private piece of land to the rear of his 
property which he had permission to use. He said it was his driveway and wasnt a 
communal parking area or public road. Mr B also said hed taken advice from the broker  
about the storage location when  he bought  the policy and had been  advised to select  
unsecured driveway  at home.
Amtrust said the area had no clearly defined perimeter and controlled access and was also 
used by other residents. So, it considered it to be a communal parking area. It also said the 
policy only provided cover for theft of the caravan when  it was stored at home as defined by 
the policy terms. As Mr B had advised  the parking area didnt appear on the propertys title 
deeds, Amtrust said it didnt meet the policy definition of home as it wasnt within the 
boundaries of his home. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair to consider  the area in question as communal. He 
concluded Amtrust couldnt rely on the policy exclusion and asked it to reconsider Mr Bs 
claim.
Amtrust didnt agree  with our investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
I issued my provisional decision on 18 May 2021.  I said I intended to conclude  Amtrust  dealt 
with Mr Bs claim  fairly.   As neither party has provided any further arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional findings. So, what  follows is my 
provisional decision made final.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  for the length of time its taken for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman,  
and Id like to thank  Mr B and Amtrust for their patience. 
Id also like to reassure  them that although  Ive only provided a summary above, so not 
everything that happened or has been argued  is covered, Ive considered  everything  Ive 
been provided with in its entirety.
Ref: DRN75484302I understand Mr B feels strongly about the matter. A crime has undoubtedly been  committed 
and understandably hes disappointed, particularly as the claim has also been declined.  
So, Ive considered whether Amtrust  has dealt  with his claim fairly and reasonably. 
The starting point  for any complaint about a declined claim is the contract  between  the 
parties  the policy terms and conditions. They set out the basis on which cover has been  
agreed.
Most insurance policies  only cover  events the insurer wishes  to be on risk for (known as 
insured perils). There will be events that arent  covered  at all, and other events which  are 
covered but might be subject to exclusions and/or limitations. Ive considered the policy 
documentation carefully to see if Mr Bs claim has been declined  fairly and reasonably in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions.
Mr Bs policy  lists theft as one the insured perils it provides cover for. But it doesnt cover:
c. Theft of or loss or damage  to the Caravan while the Caravan  is not In Use unless 
it is kept at Your Home or at a Storage Address  You have written  and told Us 
about which We have  accepted;
The words  appearing in bold receive the policy definition.
Home is defined as:
Within the boundaries of Your  permanent  place of residence or Your Immediate 
Familys permanent place of residence but excluding communal parking areas and 
any public  road or highway.
And storage address:
Your  Home  or an address You have given Us and which  We have accepted.
The statement  of fact records Mr Bs caravans storage location as Kept On An Unsecured 
Driveway at Home. 
Driveway isnt a defined term within the policy. That means it gets its everyday ordinary 
meaning, in the context  of the insurance  being provided  i.e. a wide hard path or a private 
road that leads from the street to a house.  
I thank Mr B for sending  additional photographs of the area. I can see it sits opposite  the rear 
of Mr Bs house, separated by a cobble path which runs along the length of the terraced 
houses. I accept  Mr B regards it as his driveway.  But Im not persuaded it is. I consider the 
area to be akin to an allocated parking space in the wider land behind the terraced houses. 
Amtrust has provided an extract from its underwriting  file which  shows  allocated parking isnt 
covered under the policy.
But even if Im wrong about the area being classed as a driveway,  it doesnt  meet  the policy  
definition of home. I understand it doesnt  appear in the title deeds.  I also understand there 
were plans to divide the land behind the terraced  houses into strips and transfer them  to 
interested parties. But this didnt materialise. While I appreciate the strip of land was flagged  
by Mr B and he continues to use it, it isnt within the boundaries  of his house. It follows it 
doesnt fall within the policy definition of home.
Ref: DRN75484303Mr B says none of the other residents  would  be able to park their vehicles in his area. Hes 
also told us his garden shed is in this area.  I acknowledge  what hes told us about his 
exclusive usage  of the area. But I dont think the dispute about whether the area is 
communal matters in this instance.  Mr Bs policy doesnt cover theft from a storage location  
that isnt within the boundaries  of his residence  or, if different, accepted  by Amtrust. I cant 
see he provided Amtrust with details  of the storage area for its approval.
So, having  considered the circumstances of Mr Bs claim, Im not persuaded it is covered 
under the terms  of his policy.
 
Mr B says he sought advice from the broker about  how to answer the storage location 
section when he bought the policy. Hes told us he selected unsecured driveway  based  on 
this advice and the broker didnt make  the limitation regarding  boundary  walls clear  at the 
time. 
While I acknowledge what Mr B has said, the information he provided Amtrust at the 
inception of the policy and any advice he received about it at the time from the broker  is a 
separate matter.  Amtrust isnt responsible for the advice Mr B says he received  from the 
broker. Hell need to raise  his concerns with the broker  directly as it remains  responsible for 
its acts or omissions. In this decision,  Ive only looked at whether Amtrust has fairly dealt 
with the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.  And based on what  
Ive seen, I consider  it has.
I realise Mr B is likely to be disappointed with my findings. But, based on the evidence  Ive 
seen, I consider Amtrust  has acted reasonably in declining his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Gagandeep Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7548430