K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down a claim made 
under his home insurance policy.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by his partner. For ease I will refer to all actions  as 
being those of Mr B.
background
Mr B made a claim on his home insurance  policy after a porch on his property was damaged 
during a storm. 
RSA investigated  the claim and instructed  a surveyor to look at the damage.  The surveyor 
noted there had been water ingress to the property over a period of time, as well as historic  
damage to the porch. They concluded  the damage  was due to natural breakdown of 
materials, and not as a result  of a one off storm event. 
Using this information  RSA turned down the claim saying the damage happened over time 
and not due to an insured event. RSA also considered the claim under the accidental  
damage part of the policy  but said it wasnt covered  for similar reasons. Mr B was unhappy 
with this and thought  the damage should  be covered, so brought  the complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. He considered  the contents of report, 
the telephone calls between RSA and Mr B, as well as the policy terms, and everything Mr B 
provided. He noted that RSA gave Mr B the opportunity to provide independent estimates of 
the damage. RSA said they would  consider  the claim  further  if the estimates said the 
damage was caused by the storm. However,  none of the estimates confirmed this. 
Based on the evidence  he thought  RSA declined the claim fairly  and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. This meant  the claim wasnt covered as the wear  and tear 
exclusion applied. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr B its clear theres an issue with the porch, and this has clearly 
caused a great deal of upset, and theres a cost to repair it. But its also important to say that 
my role isnt to re-underwrite the claim,  but to decide whether RSA acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the policy terms to the claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy doesnt cover  damage due to 
wear, tear or deterioration, or damage  that happens gradually over time.  RSA has relied 
upon this exclusion  when deciding not to pay the claim.
When considering  claims  for storm damage  an insurer should investigate three things:
-were there storm conditions at the time?
Ref: DRN72202162-is the damage of a type consistent  with that caused by a storm?
-was the storm the main cause of the damage?
All parties  agree, as do I, that at the time the porch  came away from the property there  were  
storm conditions.
To answer  the second  and third questions RSA instructed a surveyors report on the 
damaged porch. 
The report  said there was a lot of historic  damage  to the porch. This included,  a bracket that 
had come out of the wall which  had been filled with sand and cement,  expanding foam that 
had been put in and painted over, and as well as some rot. Looking  inside the property the 
surveyor saw water ingress and damp which they thought  had been  happening over a long 
period of time. The surveyor  concluded  the porch  was at the end of its working  life, and the 
damage was down to a natural breakdown in materials, and not due to an unforeseen 
sudden storm event.
RSA considered the report, and a photo of the property from 2017 which they said showed 
the porch coming away from house. They said because of the issues  highlighted by the 
surveyor the main cause of damage wasnt due to the storm. RSA said the damage occurred 
over time due to wear and tear which was highlighted  by the strong winds. This type of 
damage is excluded  under  the policy and not an insured event. 
Mr B disagreed with the findings of the surveyor and the interpretation of the photo. RSA 
agreed to consider the claim further if Mr B provided estimates confirming the damage  was 
due to the storm. Mr B provided the estimates  which confirmed the porch  was dangerous 
and that work needed doing. But they didnt confirm that the damage was due to the storm.
Ive looked at the report, photos,  estimates  and the notes of the investigation, having done 
so Im satisfied RSA considered the expert evidence in a reasonable way. Thats not to say 
there isnt a problem  with the porch; there  is. But RSA looked at what the expert  report  had 
to say about the cause of the damage and applied  an exclusion under the policy. Im happy 
this is a fair way of investigating a claim and that RSA acted reasonably  on the evidence 
provided.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  RSA applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7220216