K820x#14complaint
The Executors of the Estate of Mr B complained that Mr B did not get services he paid for 
with a credit  card from The Co-operative Bank Plc. The Executors want the business to 
refund the amount paid to the Estate.
 
background
On 24 March 2005 Mr B paid a company called Key Properties Town  Advisory (KPTA)/ 
Fuengirola Services €350 with his Co-operative credit card.  The payment was made in order 
for Key Properties  Town  Advisory  to pursue a claim for a refund of money that Mr B had paid 
to a different  company for a timeshare. 
Mr B sadly  died in 2010 and the Executors of his estate discovered these transactions in 
2018. It appears that the company KPTA was fraudulent and was closed  down by the police 
in around 2006.
The Executors raised a claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit  Act with The Co-operative. 
The business responded that as the transaction took place more than 6 years  ago the claim 
was out of time. The Executors were not happy  with the decision and referred the complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
thought that the business had acted fairly  in rejecting the complaint and it was entitled to 
take into account that any claim against the original provider would be out of time.
The Executors didnt  agree and replied  to say in summary  that there was no time limit for 
bringing a s75 claim, and that the fraudulent  misrepresentation  meant that the facts  were not 
known until now and so time did not start running until 2018. In addition  the Executors said 
that as fraud is a serious crime and there is no time limit for prosecution under Serious 
Crimes Act 2007, similarly the claim cannot be out of time.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that this has been upsetting for the Executors. I can see for the evidence  
that uncovering  the extent of the fraud that the late Mr B was the victim  of has been  both 
time consuming and complex.
I can only deal with the one transaction involving the late Mr Bs credit  card in March 2005. It 
is not in dispute that Mr B paid KPTA  to recover money on his behalf and no money was 
ever recovered. The Executors have provided evidence  that this company was fraudulent 
and that no clients of KPTA ever received any money back.
In 2009 the late Mr B paid another company First Legal Services  £2500 to try to recover  
money that had been lost to KPTA/Fuengirola Services.  I have  seen a contract signed  by 
the late Mr B that authorises First Legal Services to recover  money from this company. By 
this date KPTA had been closed down by the police.
Ref: DRN76985542It seems  likely to me  that the late Mr B was aware in 2009  that the services he paid for from 
KPTA had not been delivered and nor were they going to be. If the firm was closed by the 
police in 2006 the late Mr B would not have been  able to contact them  and he would have 
been aware that nothing had been  done  on his behalf and he had not received any money 
back. I think at that stage  Mr B knew that he had a claim against KPTA  and this is consistent 
with his instruction  of First Legal Services in 2009 to try and recover  the money.  
First Legal Services similarly did nothing to assist the late Mr B and also appears  to be 
fraudulent. I dont think that changes the fact that in 2009 the late Mr B was aware that KPTA  
hadnt done what he had paid it to do. 
I can appreciate that, for the Executors, unravelling the situation has taken some time. Mr B 
died in 2010 and the transactions  only came to light in 2018. I understand the point they are 
making regarding  fraud  but the inaction  and failure to recover any money  wasnt  concealed 
from the late Mr B. So I think,  despite  the fraudulent nature of KPTAs  business the fact that 
the late Mr B hadnt got what he paid for and nor was he going  to was known to him in 2009. 
So I dont  think The Co-operative were wrong to say that the claim was out of time.
The Executors have  said that there  is no time limit for bring a s75 claim and that as fraud  is a 
serious crime there is no time limit on prosecution under the Serious Crimes Act 2007 and 
so The Co-operative were  wrong  to impose  a time limit.
Dealing first, with the Serious Crimes Act 2007.  This Act relates  to prosecution  of individuals  
who have committed serious  crimes. The fact that there is no time limit on bringing such  a 
prosecution is not relevant or applicable to whether a claim under s75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act should be accepted.
The effect of Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act is that in certain circumstances  s75 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim  a refund against the supplier of goods or services  
or the provider of credit if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
supplier. 
In this case I dont think  it is disputed that there has been both a misrepresentation and a 
breach of contract by KPTA. The Co-operative has taken the view that any claim that the late 
Mr B or his Executors may have had against  KPTA is now time barred  by operation  of the 
Statute of Limitations because the transaction took place in 2005. So, equally any claim 
against The Co-operative as the supplier  of credit is also time barred.  
Even if time begins  to run when Mr B became aware  of the breach  of contract in 2009, the 
statute of limitations sets out a time limit of 6 years to bring a claim. So it follows  that the 
claim is still statute  barred.
Although this service  isnt a court of law I must  have  regard to the applicable law. In these 
circumstances I cant say it was unfair  for The Co-operative to refuse the s75 claim on the 
basis that any court claim for recovery would likely be out of time.
I appreciate that my decision will be a disappointment for the Executors and I dont doubt 
that the late Mr B was the victim  of a number of fraudulent transactions. However,  I cant ask 
the Co-operative  to do anything further.       
Ref: DRN76985543my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Executors on 
behalf of the Estate of Mr B to accept  or reject  my decision before 10 July 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7698554