K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss J says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2002.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss J owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss J couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss J that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Miss J says she was unaware  she had PPI and thinks  it 
was added without  her knowledge or consent.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Miss J at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name  used by FICL  
for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Miss J has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Miss J didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Miss J has signed the overall  
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Miss J 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to 
Miss J. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  
sure it gave Miss J clear  enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide  for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss J about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
Ref: DRN74567982made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Miss J 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Miss J has told us that she would receive sick pay from her employer and she had some 
savings - although she hasnt been able to provide any more information  about these funds  
so she says she didnt  need the cover. But this policy would have  paid out in addition  to any 
sick pay she received and, potentially for longer. It also would have enabled her to protect 
any savings that she may have had for use elsewhere or use them to cover other essential 
living expenses. So I think it could still have provided a useful  benefit  to her.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Miss J has lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7456798