K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 2005. 
Mrs M complained to us that Bank of Scotland (Bank of Scotland) plc mis-sold her the PPI 
when she applied for a credit  card.  
background
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and thought the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Mrs M 
disagreed with our adjudicator so the complaint has been referred to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs M case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover. And looking  at Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time, she seems to have met these rules.
Next, I looked at whether Bank  of Scotland made  it sufficiently clear that the policy  was 
optional. Looking at the credit card application  form, this had a section about the PPI and it 
invited the customer  to mark a box to select  the policy. This box was marked with a cross 
and Mrs M signed the form.  I think having read this, Mrs M would  have known that it was her 
choice whether or not to opt to take out the PPI. And so overall, I think  its likely Bank of 
Scotland made it sufficiently clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out.
Next, Bank  of Scotland  recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. Mrs M 
told us that if she was too ill to work  or was made redundant she would  have been  entitled to 
full pay for six months and half pay for six months  thereafter. But the PPI would have paid 
10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months,  longer then her employer benefits. So I 
think that the policy would have been  useful for her. 
Next, Ive considered  the possibility that the information Bank  of Scotland  gave Mrs M about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But the cost was comparable  to the cost of 
other, similar policies available at the time. And its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs M wouldnt  have been affected by any of 
those things. On balance, I dont think its likely that having better information would have 
dissuaded her from buying  the PPI. So overall,  I dont  think  this policy was mis-sold.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Ref: DRN79037072Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mrs M any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mrs M the 
difference between  what  Mrs M owes and what she would have owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland should also 
pay Mrs M 8%* simple  interest (15% before April 1993) if she paid off her credit  card at 
some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903707