K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) were 
unsympathetic to her circumstances and terminated  her finance agreement unnecessarily.  
Shed like them to allow her to pay off the arrears and to re-instate  the agreement  that 
funded the provision of a car.
background
Miss M took receipt of a new car in May 2017.  She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS under which she was to pay 48 monthly  instalments of 
£193.15.
VWFS defaulted the agreement in September 2018 and when the arrears  werent  paid off 
they terminated the contract and repossessed the car in October 2018. 
Miss M says they were unfair  to do so as she was going through  a difficult time having lost a 
family member. She says they were  unsympathetic  and that she didnt receive their letters 
explaining the arears on the account.
VWFS didnt  agree. They explained that theyd  sent many letters  to Miss M to explain the 
arrears on the account and request  payments. They provided copies of letters  that had been 
sent in April, May, June, July and August 2018 and also of the default notification that was 
issued in September 2018. They said they hadnt been informed of any changes that meant 
Miss M wouldnt  receive letters so they didnt think theyd done  anything wrong.
But Miss M disagreed and she referred her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  noted 
all of the correspondence VWFS had sent Miss M. He understood that a person authorised 
by Miss M, who Ill call Ms X, had explained  shed  withheld the letters from her and that 
Miss M had not been living at home but had been at friends houses. But he explained that 
he needed to decide whether VWFSs actions  had been fair and, as theyd sent 
communication to the correct address and theyd not been  informed of any change,  he 
thought they had been. He noted that Miss M had contacted them just before the agreement 
was terminated  and had asked for a two week extension but he didnt think theyd been 
unreasonable when not being prepared to allow this and overall he didnt think  they needed 
to take any further  action.
But Miss M disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Ms situation  and I hope things are improving for her. I know it 
will be disappointing  but I agree with the adjudicators view of this complaint. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN71898622board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The finance  agreement allows VWFS  to default the agreement if payments arent received. It 
says:
missing payments could  have severe  consequences  It may lead to us serving a default 
notice on you, on the expiry  of which we may terminate the agreement
Miss M was three months in arrears  when the default was raised so I think it was reasonable 
for VWFS to have done so. I can see that they sent several letters  to Miss M to explain the 
arrears situation and hadnt received any communication from her.
They were  also acting  within the terms of the agreement when they sought to repossess the 
car as the agreement  allowed them to do so, without a court  order,  if no more  than a third of 
payments due under the agreement had been  received.  And here that was the case.
VWFS hadnt been informed about  Miss Ms circumstances and werent aware  she wasnt 
receiving letters. Its clear  she did receive  the final letter as she called them. So its clear  that 
they were sending letters to the right address. I dont think  it was unreasonable  to expect 
Miss M to reply  and I think its likely  she wouldve been aware  she wasnt making payments 
to the account.  So she had a responsibility to contact VWFS about her account as she would 
have known theyd  be chasing payment. 
I understand that Miss Ms letters may have been withheld by Ms X but I dont think it would 
be reasonable to hold VWFS accountable for that.
I dont think VWFS had to provide an extension in October or be any more sympathetic to 
Miss M. She wasnt offering to repay the arrears at that point and she hadnt  been in touch 
with them  with regard  to their previous letters or to explain why the account was in arrears.  
So I can understand they may have been unwilling to change their approach. And once  the 
contract had been  terminated I can also understand it wouldnt be possible to accept a 
repayment as, by that time, the wheels had been  put in motion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7189862