K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains about the way Metro Bank PLC dealt with her request to raise  a dispute 
about a payment shed made  using  her current account and that it then gave her 60 days 
notice that her accounts with it would be closed.
background
Miss N phoned Metro Bank to say that she wanted to dispute  a payment shed made using  
her account  with it. Shed ordered  an item online to be delivered to her home, but she wasnt  
happy with the product that arrived.
Metro Bank  told her that it wouldnt be able to do this unless she could show  that she 
returned what shed  ordered. However,  Miss N said that she hadnt had to do this when 
shed raised a similar dispute before. Miss N said she wanted to complain.
However, Metro Bank then wrote to her to say that it had reviewed her accounts and decided  
that it no longer  wanted to continue to provide  her with banking facilities. It gave her 60 days  
notice that her accounts would be closed. Miss N spoke with Metro Bank about her 
complaint and its representative believed  that she needed to provide more information to 
support her claim for the disputed transaction. But this wasnt right as it had already been 
declined. Metro Bank apologised for this confusion and offered Miss N £10 as 
compensation.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He said 
Metro Bank  had given  Miss N the notice required by its terms and conditions, and was within 
its rights  to make a commercial  decision  to end its business relationship with her. However, 
in bringing the complaint to our service, Metro Bank said it would increase its offer to £25 
and, as a gesture of goodwill, would also refund the amount  of the disputed transaction 
rounded up to £20 making a total offer of £45. The investigator thought  this was fair. 
Miss N didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  for her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done this I find Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator  for the 
same reasons.
Ive looked at Metro Banks document Our Service Relationship with Personal  Customers 
and this sets out its terms and conditions, including what may happen if it makes the 
decision to end its banking relationship  with its customer, as it did here.
We may close an account,  or stop providing  a service or facility  or end this agreement. We 
may do this immediately or (if we are taking this action because you have broken your 
obligations under  this agreement) after the end of any notice  that we have  to serve you 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  as amended. If we suspend a service or close an 
account, we will take reasonable steps to reduce  the inconvenience to you. If we can, we will 
tell you before we suspend  the service or close the account (usually  giving you two months 
notice). 
Ref: DRN73841972Metro Banks was entitled to reach  this decision and did so giving Miss N 60 days notice in 
which to make alternative banking arrangements. I do appreciate that this will have been  
inconvenient for her; however Metro Bank has acted in accordance  with the terms of her 
accounts.
Miss N had looked to dispute a payment she made  on her account as she wasnt happy that 
what she ordered was as it should  be when  it was delivered to her. A chargeback could 
apply if the goods or services paid for were not provided and is the process which enables a 
consumer to claim back a payment. However the bank  doesnt have to proceed with a 
chargeback request and in Miss Ns particular  circumstances Metro Bank declined to support 
her claim.
This appears  to have  been mis-understood by one of its representatives when Miss N spoke 
to Metro Bank on the phone, as they believed information was still required  for the claim 
when it had already  been  declined. To apologise  for the confusion  this caused, Metro  Bank 
has offered to pay Miss N £25 and has said it would refund a further £20 as a gesture of 
goodwill to represent  the amount of the disputed payment.
Taking everything into account,  I think this offer represents a fair and reasonable settlement 
to this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that Metro Bank PLC should  pay Miss N £45, as it has already offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7384197