K820x#14complaint
Mrs H makes several service related complaints against Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mrs H complained that Lloyds:
1.hasnt removed her ex husbands  name from the account and shes still receiving 
letters addressed  to both of them
2.has spelled her name  wrong  when  changing it on internet  banking
3.regularly sent letters in the wrong name
4.didnt see her in a private area when she visited the branch
5.delayed her switch  to another bank
6.adverts do not support those with mental health issues
7.send correspondence  on Saturdays which stops her being able to go to a branch
8.make  it difficult  for her to understand staff as they have heavy accents
In relation to each  of Mrs Hs points Lloyds said:
1.the mortgage account Mrs H referred  to was in joint names and, as each party was 
jointly and severally liable, they couldnt amend the details unless one party  agreed 
to take on the full liability
2.it wouldnt have been possible for Mrs H to change her name via internet banking.  
Thered need  to be a change of name  form completed.
3.they noticed Mrs H had recently changed her name but letters  could still be in the 
system for eight  weeks and they had no way to remove them
4.Mrs H would have needed to make an appointment  if she wanted to discuss  matters 
in a private area
5.the switch was held up because Mrs H had requested  a joint account  to be switched 
to her sole name and this wasnt possible without  the approval  of the other  party
6.they provided a separate response to Mrs H about their advertising 
7.they werent able to control which day letters were delivered  but advised  Mrs H that 
there were three branches in her local area that were open on Saturdays
8.they explained that all of their staff were English speaking and they did make  efforts  
to ensure there were enough  staff available at the weekends  to deal with customers  
calls.
In relation to point  1 they paid Mrs H £50 because they thought it was possible the process 
hadnt been explained properly to her.
But Mrs H was dissatisfied with their response and she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  what had been  said but he thought the bank had been reasonable. 
He commented  on each of Mrs Hs complaint points but provided additional reasoning  in 
some areas. In relation to point 3 he noted that Lloyds had sent only one letter  about her 
personal account since Mrs H had changed  her name and that this letter was correctly  
addressed. In relation to point 6 he explained that this service werent able to consider 
complaints about  advertising and these should  be advanced to the Advertising Standards 
Agency. He went on to consider the service Mrs H had received  on the phone.  He asked for 
call records from Lloyds but was only able to obtain  one relevant call and he didnt think 
there was evidence that Lloyds had provided poor customer  service  in it. Overall, he was 
Ref: DRN79806142satisfied that Lloyds had been  reasonable with Mrs H and he didnt think they needed to take 
any further action.
But Mrs H was still not satisfied. She was disappointed  that Lloyds hadnt been  able to 
provide all of the call records she had with them and she explained that this whole issue had 
made her very stressed. She asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint and provide 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H and I was sorry to hear how stressful shes found her dealings  
with Lloyds to be. But Ive looked at the evidence provided and I dont think  it would  be 
reasonable to ask Lloyds to take any further action here. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H has made several complaint points to which Lloyds and our adjudicator  have already 
responded. I dont  wish to repeat the reasoning  thats been provided by Lloyds and repeated 
by our adjudicator,  other than to say Ive considered each point and the evidence provided  
and I agree; for the same  reasons. But there are some areas in which Id like to provide 
additional commentary.
joint accounts
Mrs H has been upset  that she hasnt been  able to switch a joint account and that Lloyds 
has continued to include her ex husbands name  on correspondence. As the responsibility 
for these  accounts are in joint names; the correspondence needs  to be. And to make 
changes to one account without informing  the other party would be wrong. So I dont think  
Lloyds has been  unfair here. And its been reasonable when giving Mrs H a little 
compensation in case their explanation  of matters was insufficient.
operational issues
This service has a remit to resolve  disputes  between individuals  and financial  organisations. 
It cant tell those organisations  how to run their businesses and complaints about the way 
the way they handle  things; such as their staff loading at weekends;  the communication  skills 
of staff and the delivery schedules of letters, are issues that we wouldnt interfere with. 
Complaints about  those issues may be referred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
who regulate the banks.  But Mrs H should be aware that they may not deal with problems on 
an individual case basis.
Ref: DRN79806143call records
Its frustrating  when  call records go missing but Lloyds appear to have  done  their best to 
provide the records  they have and, having listened  to those calls, I dont think there was any 
evidence theyd handled the calls poorly  or provided inadequate service.
So overall, I dont  think Lloyds has been  unreasonable here and, whilst  I understand the 
issues have been  very distressing for Mrs H, Im afraid I dont think  it would be fair to ask 
Lloyds to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7980614