K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold  her fee-paying 
Privilege and Privilege  Premier packaged  bank accounts. She says she wasnt given all of 
the information about the account  benefits  and had she been given better information, she 
wouldnt have agreed to them. 
Ms D also says that she was told she had to upgrade her account to maintain her overdraft  
limit. 
background
Ms Ds account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account on 13 January 1995
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege account on 4 March 2003
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier account on 8 August 2005
Closed on 4 February 2015
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint, and didnt think the packaged accounts had 
been mis-sold. Ms Ds representative 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. Ive used this approach  to help 
me decide what to do about Ms Ds complaint.
Where information is missing and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  Ive based my 
decision on what I think was most likely  to have happened based on everything that has 
been said and provided by Ms D, her representative and Co-op. And having  looked at all the 
information provided, I dont think that Co-op  mis-sold  the packaged accounts to Ms D. Let 
me explain why.
I have started by considering whether Ms D was given a fair choice to take out the accounts. 
Ms D has said that agreeing to the packaged accounts was the only way to get an overdraft. 
But I can see that Ms D had held a free account, with an overdraft, with Co-op for many 
years before the sale of the Privilege  and Privilege Premier accounts. So I think that she 
wouldve been aware that fee-free accounts were  available  and that she could have an 
overdraft on fee-free accounts.
Ms D says that Co-op  recommended the account to her, whereas Co-op says it sold the 
accounts on a non-advised basis. And based  on what  Ms D and Co-op have said, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Co-op  obtained information about  Ms Ds circumstances 
during the sales  and recommended the packaged  accounts to her because  they met her 
needs. 
So I think its likely that the accounts were sold on a non-advised  basis.  This means Co-op 
didnt have to check if they were  right for her. But it did still have to give Ms D important 
information about the accounts and the associated benefits. 
Ref: DRN72879032In March 2003, the Privilege account cost £6 per month and provided worldwide family travel 
insurance and an automatic  £100 interest  free overdraft facility, with preferential interest 
rates (when compared to a fee-free  account) on balances overdrawn by more than £100. 
Whereas the fee-free  account that Ms D held at the time incurred a monthly  charge of £8 to 
use the overdraft.  And looking at the information Co-op has sent us, I can see that in the 
months prior to the sale of the Privilege account,  she was regularly incurring  the £8 monthly  
overdraft usage  charge,  as well as overdraft interest. 
Based on this I think the main reason Ms D agreed  to the upgrade  was that in the months  
leading up to March  2003, it seems that Ms D was regularly using her overdraft. And so the 
account wouldve  cost £2 less each month she used her overdraft, than what she was being 
charged before.  And by having the Privilege account, Ms D wouldve paid less in overdraft 
interest too. 
In August  2005  the Privilege Premier account cost £12 a month and provided an automatic 
£260 interest free overdraft facility with preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances  of 
more than £260. It also provided worldwide family  travel insurance (with winter sports cover), 
UK and European  breakdown cover and mobile  phone insurance. 
Given how long ago this took place, its difficult for me to know what was said during the 
sale. But Ms Ds overdraft  facility  had reduced to £100 by that point and her overdraft limit 
automatically increased to £260 on the day of the upgrade. So I think  Ms D upgraded her 
account from the Privilege account to the Privilege Premier because  it provided a 
guaranteed overdraft benefit.
I appreciate that Co-op may not have given  Ms D all of the information it shouldve about  the 
accounts. But I think Co-op gave Ms D some information about  the accounts   particularly 
information about the overdraft benefits  that the accounts came with. I appreciate  that Ms D 
may not have wanted all of the benefits  of the accounts, but as they were sold as a package, 
Ms D couldnt pick or chose which benefits  they came with. And looking at Ms Ds 
circumstances at the time, I dont think that Ms D wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
accounts, had she been given more  information  about them.
Because of this, I dont think the Privilege  and Privilege Premier were mis-sold.  Because of 
this, I dont think itd be appropriate to require  Co-op  to refund Ms Ds account fees.
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment to Ms D, but I hope that Ive 
been able to explain the reasons why I dont uphold the complaint.  
       
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287903