K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr B aware  the PPI was optional and that he chose  to 
take it out. Lloyds  hasnt been  able to provide a copy  of the actual loan agreement that 
Mr B signed. Thats not surprising,  as its many years since the loan and PPI were sold.  
But Lloyds has given  us a sample  of the loan agreement it says was in use when Mr B 
arranged his borrowing. This includes a section for Optional Loan Payment Protection. 
There were Yes and No boxes that the customer had to tick to say whether or not they 
wanted the cover.
So I think Mr B wouldve realised he had a choice about whether to buy the PPI. And I 
think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr Bs account if he hadnt ticked  
the box to show  that he wanted the cover.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Even 
though Mr B says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to his occupational benefits.  It wouldve meant  Mr B could use his 
employer sick pay to cover other  expenses. So I think  he wouldve had some use for the 
policy, despite his existing arrangements.
I think Lloyds could  have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. Its unlikely 
that Lloyds told Mr B how much interest  he would be paying  on the amount he was  
borrowing for the PPI. But that amount was less than £100.  So even if Lloyds had given 
Mr B this information,  I think he wouldve still bought the PPI. 
Mr B would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy or 
Ref: DRN71609092explained the situation clearly to Mr B. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest Mr B thought he 
would repay  the loan early. So I dont think this made the policy unsuitable or better 
information about this wouldve stopped him buying it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Mr B would have been affected by any of these.
When I take all of these  points into account,  Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7160909