K822xcomplaint
Mr I, a sole trader, complains that Card  Saver Ltd misled him about a card payment service 
agreement, which he says hasnt delivered what was agreed.  In summary, he says the 
system is not suitable and hed like to cancel the contract and receive  compensation for the 
financial loss to his business and inconvenience  this has caused him.
background 
Prior to September 2017, Mr I had a card payment system with Business C which he says 
was quick, sophisticated,  and had an extensive back office  system.  Mr I says a sales agent  
from Card Saver  visited his shop and made an attractive proposal  for a card payment 
system that was cheaper and had the same facilities he had with Business C. They  would 
also cover  the buyout cost of £1,400 for the remainder of his contract  with Business C.
After the card payment system was set up, Mr I experienced  many problems with its speed,  
connectivity, and facilities, which he believes  damaged  his reputation.  Card  Saver  initially 
said the issues were due to Mr Is internet connection but they later replaced the system 
when the issues  continued. Mr I says this didnt  make  things any better and he had to use 
alternative software on his laptop for transactions.
Mr I also says there were other issues. These  included the contract  costs  with the merchant 
banking supplier and the cost of buying a bulk app for transferring inventory from the system 
with Business C to Card  Saver. There was also an outstanding payment of £86.26, which Mr 
I paid due to an incorrect final invoice calculation by Business  C.
Card Saver  eventually refunded the relevant merchant  banking supplier costs, and they 
agreed that Mr Is experience had been  frustrating  at times but they had tried to sort things 
out. They said they would cancel the agreement if Mr I paid them back the £1,400  buyout  
cost and returned all their equipment.
Our investigator accepted that Mr I had a number of technical system problems which 
affected his business. She recommended that Card Saver  write off the £1,400 buyout 
charge, pay the outstanding £86.26 to Mr I, and she agreed that Mr I should return  the 
equipment. 
Card Saver  agreed to this, but didnt offer any compensation.  Mr Is felt he was owed 
compensation because of the additional  financial loss and inconvenience he had 
experienced, summarised below: 
Ref: DRN70585212additional staff wages; 
loss of sales due to the equipment/system being  slow; 
the cost of time spent trying to resolve these issues  with all the providers  involved;  
lost income due to the lack of a marketing tool; and 
an increased Card Saver monthly  fee of £82.
Card Saver  responded  to say that Mr I had earned additional income from the continued use 
of their card payment terminal until October 2018, so he wasnt  entitled  to any 
compensation. They also had a free-phone number for contact and didnt increase their 
monthly fee. They now asked Mr I to pay back £700  of the £1,400  buyout  fee and would not 
pay the £86.26 until a decision was reached.
For the reasons  above, the matter  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I issued a provisional 
decision to Mr I and to Card Saver on 20 December 2018, as follows:
I considered the complaint in two areas   the card payment  agreement  and the 
compensation for financial loss and inconvenience caused.
card payment agreement
The available evidence showed  that Mr I entered into the contract  with Card Saver  based on 
what he was told during a meeting with their agent.  They were therefore  responsible  for the 
accuracy and clarity of any representations that caused Mr I to enter  into the contract. 
Whats not in dispute is that Mr I experienced problems with the payment system and that 
Card Saver  tried to resolve  the technical  issues with a new system, and an offer of system 
support. But Im not persuaded that Card  Savers agent provided Mr I with all the relevant 
information so that he could fully understand what services he would or would  not receive. 
I cant see anything to satisfy me that Card Saver were clear  about the exclusions and 
services that would not be available to him, compared with the services he had with 
Business C. Im satisfied  that, had the full facts been fairly highlighted, Mr I wouldnt have 
entered into the new contract on the same terms or at all. 
For this reason I consider that Mr I should be put back in the position he would have been in 
had he not taken up the new contract.  Card Saver initially agreed to write off the £1,400 
buyout cost following our investigators assessment,  but I dont accept their reasons for 
going back on that offer; indeed, its what hes entitled to in order  to allow  the contract to be 
unwound. Moreover, were  it not for this ongoing dispute, I believe that Mr I would  have 
stopped using Card  Savers  equipment and returned it sooner. In the meantime, he had no 
viable option except to carry on his business  operation by using  it. If he hadnt done this, 
there would have been higher business-interruption losses  which Card Saver  could have  
argued that hed failed  to  prevent and so werent liable for them. It wasnt a question of Mr I 
earning additional income,  as Card Saver now say, but of trying to maintain his existing 
income despite the problems.  
In any event, Card Saver continued  to allow  Mr I to use their equipment for transactions, so 
he was entitled  to rely on this rather than make interim  or alternative arrangements. 
Ref: DRN70585213Card Saver  has also not shown that there  was an agreement that any continued use of the 
equipment would lead to a recalculation  of the buyout cost. The £1,400 isnt a payment that 
Mr I received for his direct use. Rather, it was a payment that went to Business  C and which 
only accrued due to the transfer  of contracts  on the basis of sales  representations on behalf 
of Card Saver that I consider to have been  unsatisfactory. Card Saver should therefore write  
off the £1,400 as previously (and in my view properly) agreed.
Card Saver  should  also repay the £86.26 that was outstanding because this is money  due to 
Mr I following an invoice error  by Business C and would  have  been  covered by the buyout 
agreement. It would be unfair for Card  Saver  to keep this payment from Mr I  having  agreed 
to cover the buyout  cost.
Mr I has returned the equipment to Card Saver as they required and Card Saver confirmed 
they had received it. This was the right thing  to do in the circumstances when Mr I sought to 
unwind the contract.  
compensation
While Card Saver disagreed that Mr I should receive compensation, this was then the 
remaining point to decide. 
Mr I provided  his calculation of the additional  time taken  per transaction leading  to additional 
staff costs. However, despite  the average  length of time of each transaction,  Im not 
persuaded that there was a need  for additional  staff to cover costs  linked to the extra  time 
the transactions were taking rather than, say, increased customer demand for his goods or 
services. 
In relation to the costs claimed,  Mr I mentions  the time he spent trying to resolve these 
matters with Card Saver and I can see how this will have been frustrating for him. However  I 
can see that there were  a number of options  available to him for contact, such  as email or a 
free-phone number.  
The lack of a marketing tool is also something Mr I says impacted his sales. While the 
previous providers marketing tool allowed Mr I to reach his customers,  Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  of guaranteed sales from its use. I do not therefore consider it 
reasonable for me to reach a speculative  calculation of potential lost sales  here. 
With regards to the point about the increased monthly cost  again Ive not seen enough 
evidence to show that this was sufficiently  directly caused by the matters  complained  of here 
as opposed to changes that relate  to the contract. Im not persuaded there was any 
guarantee or representation at the point of sale that fees would never  increase. 
Our first aim was to put Mr I back  in the position he would  have  been  in, had things not gone 
wrong, which was what  I was going to do in the decision so far as was reasonably possible. 
Having done so, Mr I will be free to use another provider he chooses without any financial 
constraints. 
While this is the case, I was satisfied  that the issues Mr I describes have impacted the 
smooth running of his business. For this reason I asked Card  Saver to make  an award of 
£300 to acknowledge the overall inconvenience  caused to Mr I.
Ref: DRN70585214response to my provisional  decision
Mr I accepted my provisional  decision.  Card Saver said they would offer to waive the £1,400  
charge and make payment of £86.26,  but they disagreed  with the compensation payment. 
They didnt feel responsible for the inconvenience and extra  costs  and loss of sales,  and 
added that Mr I had been able to continue to make transactions  using their payment system. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Card Saver  and Mr I agree to the buyout charge being waived and the payment of £86.26 
(although Card Saver said this was as a gesture of goodwill, and Mr I had been  able to use 
the terminal free of charge until a new terminal was provided). Card Saver do not accept 
they should have to pay additional compensation.
In my view, Card Saver should  have managed the sales process more effectively than it did. 
Mr I subsequently  experienced many  issues and Im not persuaded that Card Saver  took 
enough early action to minimise the impact  of them on Mr I. There was a considerable 
amount of going  back and forth and issues were not corrected as quickly as they should 
have been.
Mr I has explained the impact of the problems each time a customer  was served in his shop. 
Transactions took longer than they should have done, and Mr I had to resort to manual 
options to complete them. I am satisfied that Mr I experienced inconvenience from all of this 
for which he should fairly receive some  compensation   and I remain  of the view that £300  is 
a fair amount.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Is complaint and order Card Saver Ltd to:
bring the contract to an end with no repayment from Mr I of any of the £1,400  buyout  
payment Card Saver made to Business C;
pay Mr I the £86.26 owed to him due to the invoice calculation error; and
pay Mr I £300 in recognition of the inconvenience this has caused his business.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Ref: DRN7058521