K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed  two accounts with notification  and transferred 
the funds elsewhere.
background
Ms C said she had three premier accounts with Lloyds. Shed banked  with them for over 40 
years. Two of the accounts related to her mothers estate. But Lloyds closed the accounts  
and moved the money into her other account. 
Ms C said she never received any letters from Lloyds  to notify her that the accounts  were 
being closed.  And she only found out when her debit card was declined. Lloyds wouldnt 
delay the closures  so she could make other arrangements  for her banking.  So she was left 
without banking facilities for several  days.  And she spent  many hours trying to sort out the 
problem. Ms C would  like an apology  and compensation  for her trouble.
Lloyds said the terms and conditions of the account meant it could close  an account  at any 
time without  need  for explanation. Itd given 65 days notice in August 2018.  And the two 
accounts had been closed  on 1 November with the proceeds moved to a third account. The 
associated debit cards  had been cancelled  when the accounts were closed. But Lloyds could 
see Ms C had encountered some problems finding out whatd happened. So it had credited 
her account  with £50 for any inconvenience.
Ms C wasnt  satisfied with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She said it wasnt uncommon for banks to review their 
customers accounts. And in this case Lloyds had decided not to continue its banking  
relationship with Ms C. The bank  had made  a commercial  decision. And that wasnt  
something our service could look into. She could see Lloyds had sent the necessary notice 
to Ms C. And although  Ms C said she hadnt received it, she couldnt  say Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. 
Ms C didnt agree. Shed accepted the decision  to close the accounts. But it was strange that 
she hadnt received  letters about  any of the accounts being closed. And Lloyds shouldnt  
have transferred the funds to her other account without authorisation. So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Ms C. She was unaware Lloyds had 
closed two of her accounts. And she only found out when her debit card was declined while 
trying to make a transaction. So Ive looked carefully  at everything thats happened to see if 
Lloyds has done  anything wrong and, if so, what it needs to do to put things right.
Lloyds wrote to Ms C in August 2018 to say it would  be closing the accounts. Ms C would 
need to make alternative arrangements for any standing orders or direct debits associated 
with the accounts.  The letters were sent through normal post and Ms C said she never 
received them. 
Ref: DRN72863802Ive checked the address used by the bank. And Ive seen copies of letters  dated 24 August 
and 29 August giving notice  the accounts  were being closed. I dont doubt that Ms C didnt 
receive them. But Ive not seen anything  to suggest they werent  sent by the bank. Ms C 
says Lloyds shouldve  used recorded delivery  for such important letters. And it shouldve  
realised Ms C might not have received them  as she hadnt taken any action. 
Its not the role of this service to tell a bank how to operate its business. So I cant  ask Lloyds 
to review its procedures when closing an account.  But I can check  that the bank has 
followed the procedures  properly. 
After carrying out a business  review  Lloyds decided to end its banking  relationship  with 
Ms C. And the bank  is entitled  to take that step  just as its customers  might decide to move 
their banking elsewhere. So Lloyds wrote to confirm it would be closing the accounts in 65 
days time  giving the notice required in the terms and conditions of the account.
As the bank hadnt received any instructions  from Ms C it moved  the funds to the remaining 
account. I know Ms C doesnt think it shouldve done so. She hadnt authorised the transfers.  
But the other option wouldve been  to send Ms C a cheque. And if Ms C had changed 
address it mightve  gone missing. So I cant really say Lloyds has done anything wrong. The 
funds were still under her control.
Ms C is also unhappy she didnt have time to use an account switch  service once she 
discovered the accounts had been  closed. Unfortunately she only became aware the 
accounts had closed in November and the switch service could only be used  while the 
accounts were open. I can see Lloyds has recognised the inconvenience this may have 
caused and credited Ms C with £50 compensation. And I think  thats the right response.
Its unfortunate that none of the letters were received by Ms C. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Lloyds didnt  send them. I do appreciate how upsetting  this mustve been. Ms C 
wasnt aware Lloyds  had decided to close her accounts. And it took some  time to sort things 
out and move her banking  elsewhere. But as Ive explained the role of this service is to see if 
Lloyds has made any mistakes. And I cant really  say it has. It made  the business  decision  to 
close the accounts. And it followed its normal  procedures by giving  two months notice  of its 
decision.
I know Ms C will be disappointed with this outcome. But I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7286380