K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  her a fee-paying 
Additions Plus account. Mrs B says that she was told she had to upgrade  her account to get 
an overdraft.
background
Mrs Bs account was opened as a fee-free account in September  1998. The account was 
then upgraded  to an Additions Plus packaged bank account in March 2004 and remained as 
such, until it was downgraded  back to a fee-free account in April 2008.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think it had been  mis-sold. 
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators findings,  so the matter has been  referred  for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help decide  what  to do about Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the packaged  bank account was mis-sold to Mrs B. I know this 
may come as a disappointment to her, but Id like to assure Mrs B that I have considered 
everything she has provided and said.
Ive started by considering whether or not Mrs B was given a fair choice in upgrading her 
account. And I can see that prior to the upgrade she held a fee-free account  so Mrs B was 
clearly aware that fee-free  accounts existed and was aware that she didnt have to have a 
packaged account if she didnt want one. 
Mrs B has specifically  said that she was led to believe she had to upgrade her account so 
that she could  get an overdraft. But during the time Mrs B held a fee-free account, she had 
an overdraft with an agreed limit of £2,100.  And this limit did not change  after she upgraded 
her account.  So Im not persuaded  that Mrs B agreed to it because she was mis-led into 
thinking it was the only way she could  get  or increase  an overdraft facility on her 
account. 
I can therefore only conclude that Mrs B agreed  to it because she was interested  in the 
benefits it provided. So Im satisfied  that Mrs B was given  a fair choice in deciding  whether to 
upgrade to the Additions Plus account.
Based on what Mrs B and Barclays have  said Ive not seen anything to suggest  that 
Barclays reviewed Mrs Bs circumstances or recommend  she upgrade  to the Additions Plus 
account because  it met a particular need.  Instead  I think the account was sold on a non-
advised basis. This means  that Barclays didnt have  to check if it was right for Mrs B, but it 
did have to give her enough  information  about the account so she could decide for herself 
whether it would meet her needs.
At the time,  the Additions Plus account  initially cost £10 a month  and provided  worldwide  
family travel insurance, breakdown cover, accidental death  cover,  card and purchase  
Ref: DRN77509952protection cover, as well as extended  warranty cover. It also provided a range of banking  
benefits including a £250 interest free overdraft facility, with preferential  interest  rates on 
balances overdrawn by more than that amount.
Its not clear what Information Mrs B was provided with during the sale of the Additions Plus 
account. But I think its likely that, in wanting to make  the account  seem  as attractive as 
possible to Mrs B, Barclays  wouldve  told Mrs B what  benefits shed get if she chose to 
upgrade her account.  And Mrs B looks to have been  aware  that there was a monthly  fee on 
the account as well. 
However, I cant be sure if Barclays gave Mrs B all of the information  it shouldve. But, based 
on what I know about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Mrs B wouldve  been  put off from agreeing  to the Additions Plus packaged account, had she 
been given more information about it. It therefore  follows that I dont  think  the Additions Plus 
account was mis-sold.
Mrs B has pointed  out that at the time of the sale, she already had a joint account  that was 
an Additions account - which was later changed to an Additions Plus account  in August 
2004. Ive carefully  thought about this and can see why Mrs B thinks her sole account was 
mis-sold - as a number of benefits were duplicated.  However, Barclays  has already refunded 
Mrs B all of the Additions and Additions  Plus account fees shes  paid on the joint account. 
By doing this, Barclays has essentially put Mrs B into the position as though she never had 
those packaged  accounts on her joint account.  This means that, once the offer has been 
taken into account,  Mrs B has in effect not paid twice for the same benefits.  And given that 
Mrs B chose to upgrade  to the Additions Plus account knowing that she didnt have to - and 
was clearly attracted  to something it provided  - then I dont think it would be appropriate to 
require Barclays to also refund the Additions  Plus account fees on the sole account  as well. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Additions  Plus account was mis-sold.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7750995