K820x#14complaint
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  has taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep  things simple,  Ive 
only referred to Allianz during this decision.
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken alongside a 
budget card in 1989. Mrs D says Allianz  mis-sold her the PPI.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make Mrs D aware  the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before adding it 
to her card. Mrs D has told us the PPI was never  discussed with her. I cant be certain  what 
was said at the time Mrs D applied  for her card and PPI but Allianz has sent us a copy of the 
available paperwork.  The application form that was completed when Mrs D applied for her 
card had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy has been selected,  
the option didnt have  to be selected to apply  for the card. The form has also been signed  in 
agreement with the selections made on it. So I think Mrs D would have  been  aware  she 
didnt have to take the policy and she chose to take it out, although I can understand why 
she may not remember this.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  the other means she had of making  
her repayments, which she says included good  sick pay and savings. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Mrs D would have received, and protected  her 
savings so they could be used towards any other expenses  she may have had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Allianz doesnt have to pay the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said including that the rules say we should presume 
Mrs D wouldnt  have taken PPI if she was given more information. But I still think  she 
wouldve bought  the policy if she had been  given clearer information. So these comments  
dont change my conclusion. 
Ref: DRN70652842my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7065284