K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unreasonably refused to pay his claim 
under his travel policy following a road traffic accident when he was abroad.
background
Mr K travelled abroad  on 29 May 2018.  When he was a passenger in his friends  car, they 
were involved  in a road traffic accident  on 2 June 2018. Mr K said he suffered back  pain and 
attended a doctor and a physiotherapist. He said the doctor  told him he shouldnt travel so 
Mr K delayed his return back to the UK.
He then made his claim. AXA said Mr K wasnt able to provide it with all the information it 
required to assess and verify his claim. So it refused to pay it. Mr K believed he had given it 
all the information  he required  and felt its continuing questioning of him to be unfair and 
aggressive. So he complained. AXA didnt change its stance.
So Mr K brought  his complaint to us. The investigator was off the view AXAs request for the 
further information from Mr K was reasonable. Therefore, He didnt  think  AXA had done  
anything wrong.
Mr K didnt agree so his complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
AXA required verification  of the medical  treatment and costs,  which  Mr K received following 
the road traffic  accident. All travel insurers would require this in order  to make  sure and 
check the costs claimed along with verification of the treatment given. I do understand that 
Mr K explained that he borrowed cash from his friend  in order  to pay these costs but there is 
no verification of that. I also understand there  was difficulty in accessing cash in the country 
where Mr K had travelled. 
However, when this service or I assess a complaint, we look to see if the business, AXA did 
anything wrong  in its investigation  of the claim and its decision not to pay it. We look to 
ensure it adhered to the terms and conditions of the policy in its request. And AXA did here. 
The further details  of what AXA requested Mr K to provide,  are reasonable and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. Therefore, I consider AXA did nothing wrong in requesting 
the further information and clarification and consequently didnt  nothing  wrong in not paying 
the claim when that wasnt forthcoming. 
All claims  under any insurance require relevant verification. Mr K claimed £95 plus $2,325.09 
for medical  expenses and a new flight home  as his doctor said he shouldnt fly back to the 
UK on his original flight home. However, AXA said theres no medical evidence to prove  Mr 
K couldnt travel home on his original  flight. There are no dates of his treatment with the 
doctor or the physiotherapist. Theres no address of the medical centre  he attended. Mr K 
said he had an x-ray but that cant be produced now. And theres  no evidence of the cash  
payments Mr K said he paid for much of this. So I dont consider  AXA did anything wrong in 
refusing to pay his claim until this information  was provided. Usually for such a claim under 
this policy, Mr K should have requested medical assistance under  his policy  at the time of his 
Ref: DRN75230752accident as the terms of his policy, which would have then ratified all the payments made 
and the evidence that he couldnt fly home  on his original flight  back.  But Mr K didnt contact 
AXA until he came home  again and I cant hold AXA responsible  for that.
I do appreciate Mr K was frustrated with the translation  mistakes  initially  in the documents he 
had provided to AXA. But I dont think this overly  influenced AXA and indeed the mistakes 
were subsequently corrected too. I appreciate Mr K found the telephone  call with the AXA 
representative distressing but I dont consider she was rude  she was merely  trying to 
validate his claim. 
Overall, I consider there  is no evidence to show that AXA has done anything wrong. I 
understand Mr K said he would travel back and obtain the evidence  required but sadly,  the 
present Covid  19 pandemic  has not made  that possible. He also confirmed that as a result 
he wished me to make a decision  rather than wait any further.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7523075