K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a credit card. Mr E says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain  why.
Barclays advised Mr E to take out the policy, so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable  for him based on his circumstances at the time. 
Mr E says he suffered  from a pre-existing medical condition at the point of sale  and Ive 
seen no reason to doubt what hes said. I think this is important  because  the policy  Mr E took 
out excluded cover for any pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what Mr E has told 
us about his condition and the likely effects of his condition going forward,  it seems like he 
wouldve thought  this condition is something  he might  have  had to take time off for in the 
future - and something he might have needed to claim  on the policy  for.  
Based on what Ive seen  of the available terms and conditions from the time, Mr E wouldnt 
have been able to claim for any condition he wouldve known about prior to the sale or 
sought medical advice for 12 months  before the start date of the cover. And as Mr E had 
been diagnosed and was taking regular medication  for his condition  within  the 12 months 
prior to the sale of the PPI. 
Ive seen that at the time of sale Mr E hadnt previously taken any time off work as a result of 
his condition, Mr E has explained that even though he was on medication the condition was 
likely to deteriorate rather than improve. Mr E says he was not advised that pre-existing 
medical conditions  would  be excluded from claiming  on the policy  and that he was not asked 
any questions about his current state of health  at the time. Mr E says he eventually  lost his 
job as a result of his medical condition. But based  on Mr Es evidence I dont think he would 
have been able to make a successful claim on the policy for any time off as a result and I 
dont think Barclays shouldve advised  Mr E to take out the policy.  So I think  hes lost out 
because of what Barclays did wrong.
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mr Es complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr E in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr E would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
Ref: DRN79950802So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr E owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr E made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Barclays should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr E would have 
owed when he closed  his account from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when Barclays works out what Mr E would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr E paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr E wouldve  owed  Barclays  something  on his store card.  The interest rate should  be 
8% a year.
D.Barclays should tell Mr E what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Es complaint.  So Financial Insurance
Company Limited  should pay Mr E compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7995080