K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about the way Covea Insurance plc handled a claim she made on her home 
insurance policy.
Reference to Covea also includes its contractors.
background
In May 2018  Ms N returned from holiday to find a tree had fallen onto her garage roof and 
had caused damage to it. Covea agreed to cover the claim but in October 2018 Ms N 
complained about the lack of progress  and the handling of the repairs.
Covea accepted its contractors had caused  unnecessary delays to the claim. It also 
accepted that its poor workmanship had caused  the electrics in the garage  to fail, which 
meant Ms Ns fridge freezer  stopped  working and the food in it was spoiled.
On 23 November 2018 Covea issued its response to Ms Ns complaint. It offered £300  
compensation for the unnecessary delays. It also agreed to pay £200 for a new fridge 
freezer and £50 for the food that had been spoiled. It also said it would closely monitor  the 
claim so that the repairs would be carried  out promptly.
Unhappy with its response Ms N brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  noted 
the claim had been handled poorly  but thought a total of £550 compensation was a fair 
amount in the circumstances. So she didnt think Covea needed to pay anything  more. She 
noted that Ms N had raised further issues about the builders  and ongoing issues,  but said 
she could only look at events up to 23 November 2018. She said issues  after this point 
would need to be addressed by Covea first, before  our service could get involved.
Ms N didnt accept what our investigator  said. She said shed missed  out on a holiday so that 
she could move forward with the claim and she wanted to be compensated for that. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Covea needed  to pay any more compensation for this. She didnt 
think Ms N had lost money  on her flight. 
As Ms N didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea accepts it hasnt  given Ms N the level of service she should have received. So I dont 
need to consider the actions it took between May and October  2018. The only thing  for me to 
consider as part of this decision is whether its compensation of £550 is fair in the 
circumstances to recognise the unnecessary  distress and inconvenience caused  to Ms N.
When considering  an amount  of compensation for distress  and inconvenience  I dont award  
individual amounts for each thing thats happened. Instead, I look to see if a business has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to compensate for the overall  distress  and inconvenience  
caused. Having  looked at everything I think it has. Ive explained  why below.
Ive no doubt that Ms N was inconvenienced by not having full use of her garage for longer 
than necessary. But from the claim notes provided  it seems  parts  of the roof needed to be 
Ref: DRN75228852tested for asbestos as part of the claim. This would have always  caused some  delay to the 
repairs which wouldnt have been  possible for Covea to avoid. But its accepted by Covea 
there were eight weeks when the claim was not moved forward.  I think £300 for around  a 
two month  unnecessary delay is reasonable in the circumstances. 
The damage to Ms Ns fridge freezer was totally avoidable. It seems Coveas contractors 
failed to secure the roof after removing  some asbestos and rainwater got into the garage 
causing the electrics  to trip and damage to the fridge  freezer and its contents. But Im 
satisfied Covea made a reasonable offer of £250 for this. I havent seen anything from Ms N 
which would indicate  this figure  is too low for her to replace the damaged fridge freezer and 
its contents.
Ms N asked to be compensated for a holiday she had to rearrange during the claim, but Im 
satisfied the £300 already offered is sufficient to cover the distress  caused. Ms N provided 
confirmation from her airline  that her flight was rescheduled but hasnt provided any 
evidence that she lost out financially as a result. And I can see the airline  confirmed the 
flights were used in February 2019, so she hasnt paid for a flight  she couldnt  use as a result 
of Covea. So I dont  think Covea needs  to pay any more compensation for this.
Whilst this complaint has been with our service, Ms N has reported that the new roof is 
leaking. I havent considered this in this decision  as Covea  needs to investigate  it first. But if 
Ms N is dissatisfied with its response  she can raise a further complaint with our service. 
Overall, for the issues addressed in Coveas response of 23 November 2018 I think  a total of 
£550 compensation is sufficient and Im not going to ask Covea  to pay any more.
my final decision
I am aware that Covea  Insurance  plc has made  an offer  to pay £550. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision  is that 
Covea Insurance  plc should pay Ms N £550  if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7522885