K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr B a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a loan in 2002, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan.  The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any discussions. But, on balance, I 
think its likely that Lloyds  made  Mr B aware  the PPI was optional and that Mr B chose 
to take it out. I say this because the loan document shows the PPI as optional and sets 
out the PPI premium  as a separate cost.  
 It seems  that Lloyds advised Mr B to have PPI, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable based  on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time.  The policy 
offered a benefit if he was made  redundant.  And, although Mr B would  have received 
some sick pay from his employer, the accident  and sickness benefit provided by the 
policy would  still have  been useful. This is because potentially it would continue  to pay 
out after sick pay ended.  Mr B doesnt appear to have had significant other means that 
could definitely have been  relied  on. Mr B appeared to have been eligible for the policy; 
and it seems also wouldnt  have  been  affected  by any significant exclusions within the 
policy.
 I think the costs of the policy could have been  made clearer  the interest  on the 
premiums wasnt  made as clear as it could have  been.  But I dont think  the actual 
interest on the PPI was so much that it wouldve put Mr B off taking it. Also the policy 
seems to have been affordable for Mr B.
 Mr B would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Mr B. 
Ref: DRN71736942On balance, I think Mr B wasnt mis-sold  PPI by Lloyds.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7173694