K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly  refused  to pay his 
claim when  he made  a claim under his car warranty policy for the replacement of a clutch.
background
Amtrust said it refused  to pay Mr Ks claim because his clutch  failed due to wear and tear 
and its policy  doesnt provide cover  for repairs required due to wear and tear. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair and complained. But Amtrust wouldnt change  its mind. So he 
brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  was of the view that Mr Ks policy  didnt cover  
his claim and therefore Amtrust didnt nothing wrong  in refusing to pay his claim.
Mr K disagreed so his complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr Ks policy  doesnt provide cover for the repair of anything that goes wrong with his car, if 
it failed due to wear and tear. As the adjudicator explained it covers  mechanical breakdowns  
of a part but only if that part didnt  fail due to wear  and tear. 
Its clear from the photos of the repairer who inspected the damage to Mr Ks clutch and 
indeed his own repair invoice  (given  he had his car repaired  himself)  that his clutch failed 
because of leaking fluid. And that other parts within the clutch  needed to be replaced  due to 
being worn.
Therefore, theres  no evidence to show Mr Ks clutch didnt fail due to wear  and tear, indeed  
the evidence overwhelmingly  shows his clutch did fail solely  because  of wear  and tear. So 
on the basis his policy provided no cover for issues that required repairing or replacing  due 
wear and tear, I consider  Amtrust did nothing wrong  in refusing to pay his claim.  
Most warranty policies dont provide cover for issues concerning  wear  and tear so I dont find 
Amtrusts policy terms unusual. Mr K said in his complaint form that he didnt know the 
detailed technical  aspects of his warranty policy but thats not the fault of Amtrust.  I consider 
however, the policy is clear that it doesnt  provide  cover for issues  of wear and tear and 
unfortunately, all the evidence  points  to the fact that Mr Ks clutch failed due to issues  of 
wear and tear.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ref: DRN71590982Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7159098