K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP gave her loans that she couldnt  afford.
background
Ms F took out a total of three loans with Uncle Buck between July and December 2017.
Loan Date Amount borrowed
No. of 
instalmentsHighest instalment
1 30.07.17 £100 3 £44.10
2 22.10.17 £200 3 £88.28
3 30.12.17 £500 6 £158.39
Ms F says she had so many loans with other lenders at the time that she was borrowing 
from one lender to repay another. She believes that if Uncle  Buck had carried  out adequate 
checks, it wouldnt have  agreed to make the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he said 
that the information on the credit check that Uncle Buck carried  out should have alerted it to 
the fact that she had existing short-term loan commitments which  left her with no disposable 
income. So he said that Uncle Buck should  refund all interest  and charges that Ms F paid on 
the loans, with interest on the refund. And he said it should remove  any negative information  
about the loans from Ms Fs credit file.
Uncle Buck  disagreed with the adjudicators view. But it offered to write off the remaining 
balance on loan 3, to refund all interest  and charges that Ms F repaid on loans 1 and 2 as a 
gesture of goodwill. It also offered to remove any negative information about loans 1 and 2 
from Ms Fs credit file, and to mark loan 3 as settled. 
But our adjudicator pointed out that Ms F had repaid more than the £100 she borrowed on 
loan 3. So he didnt  think that writing off the balance was enough  to put Ms F in the position  
shed have been in if she hadnt paid any interest  or charges on the loan. But Uncle Buck  
explained that it wasnt prepared to write off any additional interest  on loan 3, as it thought 
that Ms F should take  some responsibility  for her applications. Ms F didnt accept Uncle 
Bucks offer,  so the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether Ms F 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Ms F was borrowing, and her lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loans. It asked 
her for details of her regular monthly  income  and expenditure. And it carried  out a credit 
check before  each loan.  
Ref: DRN78626672When Ms F applied for loan 1, she told Uncle Buck her monthly take-home pay was £1,730. 
And she listed her regular monthly  outgoings  as £1,450.  So on the basis  of the information 
Ms F provided,  shed  have had £280 left over after meeting her regular monthly outgoings. 
The highest  instalment due was £44.10.  That would  have left Ms F little over £230 per month 
to meet  any unexpected or one-off expenses.
The credit check that Uncle Buck carried out before agreeing to the loan showed that Ms F 
had taken out more than 60 short-term  loans. She was already behind with payments  on 
loans that were still outstanding when she applied for loan 1. And shed defaulted on an 
account in May 2017, less than three months  before  applying for loan 1.
I think that the results  of the credit  check ought  to have alerted Uncle  Buck to the likelihood 
that Ms F was dependent on short-term  lending. And I think  it should, as a minimum, have 
asked her specifically  about any other short-term lending commitments  she had outstanding 
at the time. If it had done so, I think  its likely  that it would have discovered that she couldnt  
afford to take on further borrowing. So I think Uncle Buck should have declined  her 
application.
Loan 2 was for twice as much as loan 1. And although it was repayable  over six months,  
loan 3 marked a significant step up in the amount Ms F was asking to borrow.  Again, when 
Ms F applied for loans 2 and 3, I think the information shown on Uncle  Bucks credit  search 
ought to have suggested to it that it was likely  that Ms F was dependent  on short-term 
borrowing, and that her borrowing was unsustainable. And if that had prompted it to ask her 
about other outstanding short-term loans, I again  think it would have discovered that she 
already had outstanding  loans, the repayments on which would have taken up the whole of 
the disposable income, based on the income  and expenditure details shed provided to 
Uncle Buck.  
So as with loan 1, I think that if Uncle Buck had carried out what I consider  to be 
proportionate checks when Ms F applied for loans  2 and 3, it would have realised that it was 
unlikely that Ms F was borrowing sustainably. In other words, it was unlikely that shed be 
able to afford to repay the loans out of her normal income and savings, without having to 
borrow further. And as a responsible lender, Uncle Buck  shouldnt  have made  loans 2 or 3.
This means  that I agree  with the adjudicator that what Uncle  Buck offered to do after he 
issued his view isnt enough.
Ref: DRN78626673putting things right
To put things right, Uncle  Buck should:
refund all interest  and charges Ms F paid on all three loans;
add interest to those  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement*;
apply the refund to repay any capital balance outstanding;
write off any interest and charges that havent yet been  paid; and
remove any adverse information about the loans  from Ms Fs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs require Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7862667