K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that China Taiping  Insurance (UK) Co Ltd refused to settle a claim under 
his home  insurance  policy for stolen jewellery.
 
background
Mr K made a claim to China Taiping following  a burglary  at his home in April 2018.  The 
burglar forced entry  through  a ground floor window. Mr K said amongst other things  jewellery 
worth over £7,800 had been stolen from drawers in the bedroom and some cash. He was 
told there was no cover  for jewellery  as it wasnt being worn  or kept in a locked safe at the 
time and also that there was no cover  for cash.
Mr K appointed a loss assessor to help him with his claim. As a result  of representations by 
his loss assessor in June  2018 China Taiping changed its decision regarding the stolen 
money and agreed  to cover this. It also agreed  a settlement for non-jewellery items. Mr K 
says there  were delays  in making an interim payment to him and there  was a shortfall of £68 
due under the buildings section of the policy for a damaged window.
 
Our adjudicator thought China Taiping had acted  correctly  in declining  Mr Ks claim for stolen 
jewellery but thought it should  pay Mr K £250 compensation for its poor service. China 
Taiping agreed  to this. But as Mr K didnt agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K claimed for his stolen jewellery  under  Section 3 of the policy which  covered theft of 
contents from inside the home. He also had cover  under Section 5 for personal  possessions 
whilst away from his home.
Where an insurer seeks  to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim or, as in this case,  part of 
a claim,  its for the insurer to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion applies.
The Schedule to Mr Ks policy listed ENDORSEMENTS APPLICABLE TO THIS POLICY. 
An endorsement is a significant term which affects the cover under the policy.  Five 
endorsements were  listed  under this heading. One was Endorsement 9  JEWELLERY 
CLAUSE. This endorsement stated:
This insurance shall not cover loss of Jewellery  (including watches)  by theft or 
disappearance unless it is
a) Being worn,
b) Deposited in a bank or appropriately rated locked  safe or Hotel/Motel safe,  or
c) Carried by hand and under your Personal  supervision.
(This clause overrides exclusion (h) of Section  5 Personal Possessions)
Confusingly there  is no exclusion  (h) in Section 5 of the policy.  In essence  China Taipings 
argument is that this endorsement applies to all sections  of the policy  which provide cover 
for jewellery.  Mr K on the other hand argues that:
Ref: DRN71100252The clause  makes  no sense  with the current  policy  wording.
Its impossible  to determine  whether  the endorsement  applies  to the policy  as a 
whole  or just the Personal  Possessions  section  of the policy.
Any ambiguity  should  be interpreted  in favour  of Mr K rather  than the party  seeking  to 
rely on it.
The reference  to exclusion  (h) of Section  5 Personal  Possessions " leads  to a strong  
conviction  that the clause  is only intended  to apply  to the Personal  Possessions  
section  of the policy.
Overall, whilst I accept  the wording of the schedule could have been  clearer, on balance I 
think that this endorsement  applies to all relevant sections of the policy,  that is Contents  and 
Personal Possessions. The reason for that is the schedule refers  to ENDORSEMENTS 
APPLICABLE TO THIS POLICY which seems to me to imply that they apply to the policy as 
a whole as opposed to particular sections of the policy. In addition while some endorsements 
are clearly  only relevant  to certain  sections  of the policy  for example, the index-linking 
endorsement is only relevant to Section  1 Buildings  and Section 2 Contents, others such  as 
the settings endorsement appear  more general. That endorsement simply says:
It is warranted that the settings are checked and repaired annually by a jeweller who is a 
member of the National Association  of Goldsmiths.
It seems  clear  to me that the settings endorsement  was meant  to apply to any section  of the 
policy which  covers jewellery. I think in the same way the jewellery endorsement was more 
likely than not intended to apply to all sections  of the policy covering the theft or 
disappearance of jewellery. 
Im satisfied that the endorsements were adequately highlighted to Mr K in the policy  
documentation. Its unfortunate  if Mr K wasnt aware  of this but thats not something I can 
reasonably hold China Taiping responsible for.
So in conclusion because  Im satisfied that the jewellery endorsement  more  likely than not 
applies, Im not persuaded that China Taiping treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining his claim for jewellery  stolen in the burglary  from his home.
Ive also looked  at the way China Taiping dealt with Mr Ks claim. It did cause Mr K 
unnecessary distress by wrongly declining at first his claim for stolen cash. A few weeks later 
after being  challenged  on this point, it changed  its decision. There was also a delay of a few 
weeks in making an interim  payment to Mr K. Taking into account the effect  these failings 
would have had on Mr K, overall  I think the sum of £250 is appropriate to compensate  him 
for the trouble and upset  caused by this.
Part of Mr Ks claim related to a damaged window. This was covered under  the Buildings  
section of his policy.  China Taipings loss adjuster thought the building  should have been  
insured for £320,600 as opposed to £250,000. That meant under the terms of the policy 
China Taiping was entitled to make a deduction  for wear and tear. Mr Ks loss assessor  
queried this because the windows were relatively  new. China Taiping said it would 
reconsider this deduction if Mr K could show that the windows were new.  I think  this was a 
reasonable response. I can see that Mr K provided his loss assessor with a copy of a quote 
for the windows but I cant see that his loss assessor forwarded this to China Taiping. Mr K 
may wish to ensure  this is done  if he still wishes to pursue this aspect of the claim.
Ref: DRN71100253my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd to pay Mr K 
compensation of £250 for poor claim handling  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110025