K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection 
with a claim he made on his motor  insurance  policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ds been helped by his son. But for ease  of reading Ill refer to 
Mr Ds sons comments  as being  those  of Mr D.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
background
Mr Ds car caught fire. Acromas said it was a total loss. It valued the car at £5,000 before 
deducting Mr Ds excess and a fee for retaining  its salvage. Mr D wasn't happy with 
Acromas service and complained. Acromas agreed  that it might  have done some further 
damage to the car while it had it. So it reduced  the amount  it was asking Mr D to pay to keep  
the salvage from £1,600  to £800.  It also offered  him £25 towards the cost of cleaning the 
car.
Mr D remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators  looked 
into Mr Ds complaint. She thought Acromas had dealt with the matter reasonably. Mr D 
didn't agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ds made  a number  of detailed points and I've considered  
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
Mr D is very unhappy with Acromas valuation  of the car as he thinks its worth  considerably  
more. I should  explain  that it's not my role to value  cars but Ill look to see that an insurers  
reached its valuation  reasonably.  Our usual approach to complaints about  valuations is to 
look at the relevant trade guides  for valuing second-hand cars. We often find these  reliable 
as theyre based  on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And I find them more 
persuasive than figures cars are advertised  for, as those are often inflated to allow  for 
negotiation and don't  reflect  the actual sale price.  But in this case, as Mr Ds car was over 
30 years  old at the time of the fire, most of the trade  guides dont provide a valuation  for it. 
Acromas asked specialist  engineers to value Mr Ds car. They  initially  valued the car at 
£4,000 but after discussion with Mr D they increased that figure  to £5,000.
To support his argument  that Acromas undervalued his car Mr D provided adverts for cars 
similar to his which were being  offered for sale for sums between £6,995 and £14,490.  And 
he said this was evidence  that Acromas valuation  was far too low. But one of those cars had 
recently been restored  and three  of the other four had significantly lower mileage, which 
would affect the asking  price for a car. Its also worth  repeating that the asking price is often 
inflated to allow for negotiation. And just because a car is advertised at a certain price  
doesn't mean that it will sell for that price, if in fact it sells at all.
Ref: DRN75333172Also I note that Acromas  engineers also considered adverts when they valued  Mr Ds car. 
They referred to cars being advertised  from between  £1,899  and £6,895. But two of the 
higher valued  cars had mileage that was less than half that of Mr Ds car. And three  cars 
were valued  at less than Acromas had valued  Mr Ds car at, although they appear  to have 
higher mileage. 
Mr D also referred  to another  source  for valuing classic  cars. And for cars similar to Mr Ds 
that source gave the following valuation guidance:
£6,000 for cars in concourse condition (best example of a model or a model  from a 
dealer).
£4,000 for well-presented cars that have no obvious faults.
£1,750 for cars capable of regular  use. They have a current  MOT  certificate but will 
need some work.
£750 for cars which  may need  significant work.
Ive seen pictures of Mr Ds car taken before the fire and it's clear that he took good  care of 
it. But it wasn't in perfect condition and clearly had some issues  such  as rust and flaking 
paint that I think meant it wouldn't  have  been  considered to be in concourse  condition. So it 
would appear  that Acromas valued  the car in line with the guidance provided by the classic 
car resource  as being somewhere between  well-presented and concourse condition.  Also 
one of the second hand trade guides  did give a valuation for Mr Ds car. And it valued it at 
considerably less than Acromas valued  the car at. So having  considered  all the evidence I 
think Acromas  valued Mr Ds car fairly, as there do appear to be similar cars available  for 
around that valuation,  although I recognise  that such cars may be fairly  rare. 
Mr D also gave us information  from a specialist he was thinking about instructing to repair  
his car. The specialist gave him two valuations for the car, being between  £6,500  and £7,500 
market place and also between £12,000  and £14,000 replacement value. He said the 
replacement value would be the cost for it to source a replacement  car in similar condition  to 
Mr Ds before the accident.  But its not clear how the specialist  arrived  at those valuations  
and I note that he was providing Mr D with valuations with a view to him commissioning  the 
specialist to repair his car. So its likely the specialist  had a vested interest in saying the car 
would be worth more  than it would cost Mr D to pay the specialist to repair  it. That's because 
that could result in Mr D paying the specialist a considerable sum to carry out the work, 
something Mr D might  have been  less likely  to do if the specialist told Mr D the car would still 
be worth  less than the repair costs  once complete. So the specialist's comments  don't 
persuade me that Acromas valuation is unfair.
Ill add that Mr D thinks Acromas should  have paid to have  his car repaired. But given the 
estimates to repair it were significantly more than Acromas  valued the car at, I think  its 
decision that the car wasnt economical  to repair, and so a total loss, was reasonable.
Mr D also complained about the condition  of the car when Acromas  returned it. He said 
Acromas had caused further damage  to the car and that it was dirty inside and out. Acromas  
accepted that it might  have caused some  further damage to the cars rear bumper. But it 
didn't think  it had caused all the damage that the car had. And it reduced the cost for Mr D to 
retain the car by £800 to compensate him for any deterioration in the condition of the car 
whilst it had it. It also offered Mr D £25 towards the costs of cleaning  the car. And I think  that 
was a reasonable response in the circumstances. So I'm not going  to instruct it to take any 
further action.
Ref: DRN75333173For completeness, Ill add that Im aware  that Mr D wasn't happy with other aspects of 
Acromas handling  of the claim. In particular  because it didn't return the car on the day it said 
it would  and then returned it on another day without warning.  Acromas  said Mr Ds complaint 
identified a training issue  and it apologised. I think that was a reasonable response  in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7533317