K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that TSB Bank plc (TSB)  closed her savings accounts without giving her 
any explanation  or prior notice.  
background
In 2018 Miss S contacted  TSB about  a number of disputed transactions. TSB investigated 
the matter but blocked Miss Ss account  which meant she couldnt access it. Around the 
same time TSB suffered  IT problems which added to the difficulty  Miss S was having  paying 
her bills, obtaining statements,  and having  funds missing from her account. She complained 
to TSB and then to this service. Those matters are the subject of a separate  complaint which  
has now been considered by us.
But then in August  2018  Miss S received an account closure summary letter  for her savings 
accounts. As she hadnt requested them to be closed she contacted  TSB for an explanation. 
Miss S says she was initially told the accounts  had been closed in error and she should  go 
into a branch to open new ones. But in a separate  telephone call she says she was told the 
accounts were closed because of her other  ongoing complaint. 
TSB said it had acted according  to its terms and conditions in deciding to close the account 
immediately. It also confirmed that it had closed a number of new account applications that 
Miss S had made. Unhappy with TSBs explanation Miss S referred  her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it should be upheld because  he 
didnt think TSB had given  the appropriate notice period in which to close  the accounts.  He 
thought TSB should pay Miss S £200 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. 
TSB didnt  agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. Miss S did agree 
with the adjudicator but asked for the compensation  not to be paid into her current account 
because of the other ongoing complaint. Therefore the complaint has been  passed to me for 
a final decision.
Miss S complaint about the issues regarding her current account being closed have been 
considered under a separate complaint reference. To be clear what  Im considering here is 
whether TSB acted  unfairly by closing her savings accounts without  notice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S says the first she was aware  of her accounts  being closed was when she received 
the closure notice  in August 2018.  TSB says it took that decision because shed broken the 
terms of her agreement with it which entitled  it to close accounts without prior notice. And it 
says it did give her an explanation for the closure.
So Ive looked  TSBs terms  and conditions for personal banking which explain how both 
parties can end an agreement.  On TSBs  part it explains that there are four reasons why it 
might end an agreement  by closing an account immediately. Ive carefully considered those 
reasons but Im not persuaded  that Miss S breached any of them.  TSB hasnt specifically 
Ref: DRN79001382explained which of those reasons it has used to close the accounts but there  is some  
suggestion that TSB closed the accounts  because of Miss S ongoing complaint being 
considered by this service  and also because of the general number of complaints shes 
raised with it. 
Im satisfied TSB is able to stop providing banking services to her for those reasons if it 
chooses. But what TSB has suggested is that its relationship with Miss S has broken down 
and I think the terms and conditions provide for that under  the heading of any other  reason 
to close an account.  And looking  at the terms and conditions  in such  cases it says TSB will 
tell you two months  in advance. And TSB hasnt done that  which I think it should  have 
done. So I think TSB has acted unfairly  over this matter. I think TSB shouldve  given             
Miss S two months about the account  closures.
Ive gone on to consider the impact  TSBs  decision to close  the savings account  without 
notice had on Miss S. And Ive seen  how any funds  in the accounts  were transferred to her 
cash account before closure so I dont think shes suffered any financial loss. But Ive also 
seen that some of her state benefits  were paid into one of the accounts  and Miss S says 
another payment was due to be paid in the day after the account  was closed. So I think that 
Miss S was impacted by the closure  because  she would have had to contact HMRC to 
arrange payment  into a new account which I think would have caused her a degree of 
inconvenience. 
Ultimately I think  TSB acted incorrectly here by not giving Miss S the appropriate notice 
period to close her accounts. Had it done  so she would have been able to make alternative 
arrangements for her incoming payments and wouldnt have tried to set up new accounts 
with TSB. I think TSBs error impacted Miss S and caused her some degree  of distress and 
inconvenience. So I agree  with the adjudicator that TSB should pay Miss S £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Miss S £200.  
As TSB is closing all the accounts Miss S has with it, TSB should  contact Miss S to get her 
instructions as to how the funds are to be paid to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7900138