K820x#14complaint
Mrs E took out a packaged bank account  (PBA)  with Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) from 
1999 for which she was charged a monthly fee. She says it was mis-sold.
background
Mrs E took out the following accounts  with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current with overdraft Before January 1998 No
PBA Around January  1999 Yes
Current with overdraft December 2016 No
Mrs E says that she was told she had to take out a PBA if she wanted to stay with Barclays  
and she has not used the benefits from it. The account change  happened through a 
discussion with Barclays staff, and the initial fee was £5 per month for the PBA. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PBA was mis-sold but Mrs E disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Es complaint.
To begin with I think it is helpful if I acknowledge that there is a difference  of opinion  between 
Mrs E and Barclays about when and how the packaged bank account was sold.  Barclays  
says it was in January  1999 in a branch  and Mrs E says it was a few months later over the 
phone. Neither  the timing of the sale in 1999  nor the way in which any discussion took place 
affect the outcome of my decision so Im happy to accept either party may be correct  on this.
So in looking at Mrs Es complaint  about  the packaged bank account sale I need firstly to 
consider two things;  whether she knew she had a choice between  taking  out a fee free 
account or the packaged bank account she bought; and whether Barclays  advised her to buy 
the packaged bank account  or not. 
Mrs E has been clear in her testimony  that she believes  that she was not given any choice 
as she was told that she could only continue with Barclays  if she took out the fee paying 
packaged bank  account. Barclays says it did give Mrs E a choice.
I dont doubt Mrs Es honest recollections  on this but I think its more likely than not that after 
more than twenty years her memory is mistaken  and she did know  she had a choice. I say 
this because Mrs E had previously had a fee free account and an overdraft  facility  with 
Barclays for at least a year so I think she would have queried  any advice that told her she 
had to pay a fee for an account to stay with the bank.  I have  no systemic evidence  from 
Barclays practices at the time that it wasnt  offering a choice. And I also think  its more likely 
than not that Mrs E would  have known that fee free accounts with overdraft facilities  were 
available from many other banks and building societies  as these were widely advertised and 
used. So I know this will be disappointing for Mrs E but Im not able to say that I think  she 
Ref: DRN72640242was completely unaware she had other  options as I would have to in order to uphold her 
complaint on this point.
So I think Mrs E did know  she had a choice about whether to take out the packaged bank 
account and she chose to do so.
Did Barclays advise her to take out the packaged  bank account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
packaged bank  account to Mrs E personally  or advise her to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Es needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks  to show me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to her. I accept  its possible  that in 
providing information to Mrs E and explaining the benefits of the packaged bank account, 
Barclays may have said or implied that it was good  idea to take it out. But this isnt the same 
as giving personal recommendations. And based  on this services  knowledge  of Barclays  
sales practices throughout this period, I think its more  likely than not that Barclays sold the 
packaged bank  account to Mrs E on an information  only basis.  This means  Barclays  did not 
have to ensure  that the packaged bank account  was suitable for Mrs E at the time of the sale 
but it did have  to provide her with enough information for her to make  an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide  Mrs E with enough  information about the packaged bank account?
The packaged bank  account benefits  included purchase protection,  cardholder protection, life 
assurance and a £100 charge free and interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Mrs E although clearly Mrs E did have 
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell her the account.
Barclays has provided evidence that Mrs E had been going  overdrawn regularly before the 
date of sale, and she would have paid a £5 fee per month  each time she did so. She also 
continued to go overdrawn  regularly for a substantial period after the sale.
So I  think its more likely  than not that when Barclays  explained that the packaged  bank 
account had a monthly fee of the same amount, £5, she was being charged  for going 
overdrawn each month, and that there  was an interest free £100 overdrawn buffer zone, this 
was of interest to her. And I think she saw it as useful enough  for her to decide  to take out the 
account.
So in my view even  if Barclays  didnt  provide  Mrs E with all the information  about the 
packaged bank  account I think its more likely than not Mrs E wouldve chosen  to take out the 
account due to the overdraft benefits.  
So overall, I dont  think Mrs E lost out in the packaged bank account  sale, and I cant uphold  
her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Ref: DRN72640243Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7264024