K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complained about the way Amtrust Europe Limited handled  his cosmetic repair 
insurance claim. 
Reference to Amtrust  includes its agent. 
background
Mr M claimed on his policy for a dent, scratch and scuff on his car to be repaired. He said a 
repair appointment was made for 14 August that wasnt kept by the technician.  Mr M said 
after a number of calls and emails he complained. Amtrust apologised and said its approved 
repairer had implemented a new software  system  that caused some delay. 
Mr M said Amtrust  eventually arranged a repair however, the repairer  didnt have the correct 
colour paint. He said after more emails Amtrust arranged another repair  for 20 November 
when someone  fixed  the dent but not the paintwork. Mr M was unhappy that this required 
another repair, meaning it had taken four days to resolve what should have been done in 
one. Amtrust accepted  there had been  some delays and offered Mr M £100 compensation.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said hes taken three days  off 
work, which he shouldnt  have needed  to do. 
Amtrust said there were  three separate claims, one for the rear door, one for the front door 
and one for the tailgate. 
Our investigator thought the £100 Amtrust paid was a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate Mr M. Mr M didnt think it was enough to recognise  the days hed had to take off 
work, as well as the calls and emails  hed needed to make. He said hed asked  for Monday 
or Friday  appointments as he didnt work those days but ended up accepting an appointment 
on a different day to get things sorted. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
I contacted Amtrust and said I intended to find that £250 was a fairer amount of 
compensation, as Mr Ms claim had taken longer than it should  have done. I said the repairs 
had needed more appointments than was necessary.  And hed had to chase Amtrust to get 
things sorted. 
Mr M accepted my provisional findings  but Amtrust  didnt. It said it would pay an additional  
£100 but thought  an additional £150 was too much. It said it had compensated Mr M for two 
hours of each of the three days,  as thats  how long the repair  would take. It also said it could 
have repaired the car at Mr Ms place of work and it would have been able to sort things 
sooner if Mr M had been more flexible in the days he could have had an appointment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers  his car for cosmetic damage. Im not going  to comment on the claim for 
the tailgate as Mr M hasnt complained  about  that. Ill deal with each  of the other  two claims 
in turn. 
Ref: DRN79469792rear door
Amtrust said this claim was received on 18 July. The repair was arranged  for 14 August  but 
Amtrust sent the wrong  technician.  The work was re-booked for 12 October, but further  
repairs were needed  and eventually completed on 6 December. 
It seems  this repair should have been  completed in one appointment, which Mr M would 
always have needed  to take time off work for. Mr M asked  for appointments on his non-
working days of Monday  and Friday, and I can see 12 October was a Friday. However,        
6 December wasnt a Friday and I accept Mr M had to take time off for this. Amtrusts said it 
could have carried out repairs at Mr Ms work place. However, Ive spoken to Mr M and hes 
explained that he doesnt drive to work. And it wouldnt have been suitable to take his car to 
work for the repairs.  Given the location of Mr Ms workplace Im persuaded by what hes 
said. 
I appreciate Amtrusts point that it tried to offer appointments  on the days Mr M wasnt at 
work. But I dont think this was the only reason for the delays. In any event the repairs 
should have been completed  in one appointment, so I can understand why Mr M didnt  want  
to take any more time off work. I can also see Mr M sent a number of emails to try to get an 
appointment sorted out and hes also told us he spent  a long time on the phone  trying to get 
through to Amtrust. I dont  think Amtrust handled  this claim as well as it should have done, 
and I think its fair and reasonable that it should  compensate him for this. 
front door
Amtrusts said this claim was received on 15 October 2018. Ive seen an email  dated           
21 October confirming the appointment on 20 November. It may be that as there were  two 
separate claims two separate appointments would always  have been necessary. But I can 
understand why Mr M would have expected this technician to be able to complete both 
repairs, given work  remained outstanding  on the rear door, and he doesnt seem to have 
been told otherwise.  
While this claim seems  to have been  completed  correctly and within  a reasonable timescale,  
it would  have been helpful here for Amtrust  to have tried to send a technician to carry out 
both repairs, or to have  let Mr M know why that couldnt happen.  I accept it would have been 
frustrating for him to find out he still needed a further  appointment to fix the rear door.
In summary,  I accept Amtrust caused Mr M inconvenience because of the length of time it 
took for his rear door claim  to be resolved,  the number of calls and emails  he made, and that 
he had to take time off work for appointments. He also wasnt  told the appointment in 
November was only for the front door or why Amtrust couldnt send a technician  to complete 
both repairs on that day. Amtrust has offered £100  compensation. But having thought about 
the distress and inconvenience  Mr Ms suffered  I remain  satisfied that £250 would be a fairer 
amount. So, Amtrust should pay Mr M an additional  £150 on top of the £100 its already paid 
him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay 
Mr M a total of £250 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
Ref: DRN79469793It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ms accepted  my final decision. If it pays 
later than this, it should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my 
decision to the date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7946979