K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy that a claim under his home insurance policy  for storm damage to his 
swimming pool wasnt settled in full by Allianz  Insurance Plc.
background
Mr N made  a claim to Allianz after a storm damaged  his swimming pool in March 2018.  He said 
the wind had pulled the cover off and many of the mosaic tiles were broken or damaged.
He sent Allianz  quotes for a new cover and to repair  the tiles. It said it had spoken to both 
contra ctors  that provided a quote for the tiles and theyd confirmed that the tile damage 
was as a resul t of frost. Allianz said frost damage  wasnt covered by his policy.  So it declined 
this part of his claim.  It did agree to pay for a new pool cover.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service.  I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint. An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mr N's policy  covers  him for certain  perils  including  storm  damage  (insured  perils)  while  
others  such  as frost damage  are excluded  (uninsured  perils).  It's not always  
straightforward  to decide  whether  damage  has been  caused  by an insured  or an 
uninsured  peril.  That's  particularly  true, when,  as is the case  here,  the position  is 
complicated  by an insured  peril (storm)  being  followed  by an uninsured  peril (frost).
In such  a situation  we look at what  was the proximate  cause.  This means  the active  
cause  that set in motion  a train of events  which  resulted  in the damage  without  anything  
else intervening.  This can usually  be established  as a matter  of common  sense.
Having  given  this a lot of thought,  I think  there's  sufficient  evidence  to say that in this 
case  the storm  was the proximate  cause  of the damage  to the tiles.  In reaching  this 
conclusion,  I've kept in mind  it doesn't  appear  to be disputed  that the storm  blew  off 
the pool cover.
Mr N says  the damage  happened  between  26 February  2018  and 18 March  2018.  
Having  checked  weather  records  for his local  area,  I can see that there  were  freezing  
conditions  during  that period.  For example  for the five days  starting  on 26 February   
2018  the maximum  temperature  was 0 degrees  Celsius  on the first day and the 
following  four days  were  all below  freezing.  The damage  to the pool cover  left the tiles 
unprotected  and as a result  of being  exposed,  they suffered  frost damage.  I think  it's 
fair to say that but for the storm  this damage  wouldn't  have  happened.  It follows  that I 
think  Allianz  should  have  accepted  this part of the claim  as storm  damage.
Mr N accepted my provisional  findings.  Allianz  made the following points in response:
It said the pool looked tired in terms of its condition and was ten years old;
There werent  harsh weather conditions in the three to four weeks  prior to the 
damage being discovered;
It wouldnt expect  tiles to come off unless there  was a degree of wear and tear;
It would consider paying for a patch repair for the areas of damage where the 
tiles had come off.
Ref: DRN70776972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think what Allianz is implying by saying  that the pool looked tired  is that its entitled to rely on 
the exclusion for damage caused by wear  and tear to decline the claim. But in its final response  
to Mr Ns complaint which it issued on 13 July 2018 Allianz didnt refer to this as a reason to 
decline the claim. So I dont think its fair to raise this point at a later stage. To be fair to Mr N, 
Allianz should have outlined all of the reasons why the claim was being declined  at the outset. 
Similarly I think in saying  there werent harsh  weather conditions in the three to four weeks  
prior to the damage being discovered, Allianz  might be trying to imply that the tiles werent 
actually damaged by frost but by wear and tear as referred to above.  Again this is something 
it previously accepted since it declined this part of the claim originally on the ground that the 
damage had been  caused by frost and it said frost damage wasnt covered  by Mr Ns policy. 
So I dont  think its reasonable of it to change its position at this stage and allege that it 
wasnt frost damage after all.
So I remain  of the opinion that Allianz should  accept  this part of Mr Ns claim. 
With regard to what sort of repair Allianz  is liable for, the terms of Mr Ns policy mean that 
Allianz should put Mr N back in the position  he was in just before the loss or damage 
happened. I dont have  sufficient evidence in this case to say whats the right or wrong way to 
do that. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that a patch repair  as suggested by Allianz 
wouldnt be effective. But I can give some guidance on this. If the only way to carry out an 
effective and lasting  repair  to the insured damage  (that is, in this case  the damaged or loose 
tiles) is to carry out work on uninsured damage (in this case, the undamaged tiles), then I think  
in order to treat Mr N fairly  Allianz  should  carry out that uninsured work. That may mean  that 
Mr N ends up in a better position  than he was in before the loss or damage happened. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Allianz  Insurance Plc to settle Mr Ns claim for damage to 
his swimming pool tiles.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077697