K820x#14complaint
Mr C in unhappy that  Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax),  have  re-set  is phone 
banking security number  (PSN).
background
In October  2017, Mr C called Halifax telephone banking and was asked security questions  
rather than being  prompted for digits of his PSN as security.  When  he questioned why this 
was, he was told by the advisor it was because his PSN had been deactivated or 
compromised.
Halifax agreed to investigate when the compromise happened and why. They traced this 
back to a call Mr C made earlier that month,  but they didnt have a recording of the particular 
call to be able to determine what actually happened  - whether Mr C gave the incorrect  
information from his PSN to the call handler,  or the adviser input this incorrectly.  
As Halifax werent able to determine what happened, they offered Mr C £20 compensation 
for the inconvenience.  Mr C wasnt happy  with the amount offered, and Halifax  werent 
willing to increase the amount of compensation. So Mr C came  to our service  to see whether 
we felt this offer was fair considering the circumstances.
Our investigator thought the amount offered by Halifax was fair but Mr C still didnt agree. So 
the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand theres  been  other  occasions  
where Halifax has deactivated Mr Cs PSN. But in this decision, Ill only be making a decision 
on the incident that happened in 2017. 
In situations like this, where what has happened is in dispute, I have to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence I have. In this situation,  Halifax says as they cant  identify how the PSN was 
compromised, theyre going to accept the error was their fault, and compensate  Mr C for 
this. So I need  to decide whether the compensation offered is fair in the circumstances.
Halifax gives customers a PSN so they can use this to be verified  when using telephone 
banking. And by using their PSN it gives them unrestricted access  to all their account 
services when speaking  to the telephone  banking team. Halifax say a PSN could be 
compromised for example, if someone  enters the three  required  characters  incorrectly,  if full 
PSN is disclosed over the phone, or if the customer doesnt have their PSN during a call.
I appreciate that by Mr C not having  a PSN, it wouldve made it more difficult to get through 
Halifaxs security  to be able to discuss his accounts. But he was still able to gain access  to 
his accounts in the same call, by answering the required questions.  The error was rectified  at 
the earliest opportunity by Halifax, and a new PSN sent to Mr C for further use when calling 
the telephone banking  team. So I think the £20 offered by Halifax for this incident is fair in 
the circumstances, and I wont be asking Halifax to pay Mr C any more compensation.
Ref: DRN79736752my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7973675