K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd unfairly declined  to cover a claim she made 
on her motor breakdown  insurance policy.
background
Mrs M called  for assistance when  her car overheated. She noted that water poured from the 
engine when  she topped it up. She thought the engine  would seize  if she continued  her 
journey, so in her view it wasnt driveable. Bastions advisor told her the claim wasnt  
covered, as in his opinion Mrs M could have driven  the car on. Mrs M said Bastion told her 
later that as her car was over 15 years old the policy  didnt cover it anyway. In the end the 
age restriction was waived, so the decline was due to the car not being immobile,  in line with 
the policys terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. Initially he thought that if the policy 
didnt cover Mrs Ms car due to its age, Baston should return the £50 premium  to her, as it 
had never  covered any risk. Bastion said the broker that had sold the policy  was at fault. The 
broker provided a call recording  from just after the date of the claim in which its advisor told 
Mrs M that the age exclusion for her car had been  waived.    
The investigator then issued a second view. He said if the policy was active, cover was in 
place when the claim was made. He noted that Mrs M had stopped the car and didnt think  it 
should be driven on in order to safeguard it from further damage. But he thought it was fair 
for Bastion to decline  the claim. In his opinion,  the situation Mrs M was in when she asked 
for help wasnt covered  by the policy. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mrs Ms complaint  as follows:
The policy states  that the definition of a breakdown is an electrical  or mechanical  failure  that 
immediately leaves a vehicle immobile. What I must consider is whether Bastion applied  the 
policy term in a fair and reasonable  way.
 
In this case, there was a leak from the radiator. Mrs M had tried to resolve the overheating 
by adding water to the engine, but that didnt work. Steam continued to pour from under the 
bonnet. From Mrs Ms point  of view, the fault with the car rendered  it immobile,  as she didnt 
think it could safely be driven any further.  I think that was a reasonable judgement for her to 
make - and one that many consumers would have  made had they been in her position.  
I dont think it was reasonable  for Bastion to rely on the fact that  technically - the car might 
have been driveable. As Mrs M didnt think it was safe to try to move it, she stayed where  
she was and paid for cover on another breakdown  policy. The mechanic who attended the 
scene didnt think the car was safe to drive until after hed carried out a temporary  repair.  He 
then followed Mrs Ms car as she drove it to a nearby garage.  
In my opinion, Bastion  didnt apply the policy term fairly in the circumstances here, as the car 
was effectively immobile. I think it should  have helped Mrs M when she asked for assistance, 
so I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold her complaint.  
I think Bastion should refund the £50 cost of the alternative breakdown assistance Mrs M 
had to arrange. Mrs M was inconvenienced by having to do that, and it probably caused  a 
Ref: DRN78816512delay, so I can see why she was so upset about Bastions decision. I think it would be 
reasonable for it to pay Mrs M £100  for distress  and inconvenience as well. 
I asked for comments on my provisional view. Mrs M accepted it. Bastion didnt comment.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has commented on my provisional findings, theres no reason for me to 
depart from them,  so Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint, for the reasons stated above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to  do the 
following:
Refund Mrs M £50 for the cost of the alternative assistance
Pay Mrs M £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7881651