K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining about the amount One Sure Insurance Limited (One  Sure)  is asking him 
to pay after he cancelled  his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
background
Mr S took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy through One Sure   a broker  as he 
was intending  to start working as a courier. Around a month later Mr S contacted One Sure  
as he said that he wasnt making enough  money  to make it worthwhile and wanted to cancel 
the policy.
Mr S says that One Sure couldnt say how much  it would  cost to cancel the policy.  And it 
said it would  have to discuss this with a different department. He says he wanted  to wait to 
find out how much it would cost to cancel and then he would decide whether to do so or not. 
However, he was later contacted to say that he now owed a further £773.71. Hed already 
paid a deposit of £387.60. So he said he was being  asked to pay £1,028.62 for one months 
cover, which  he thinks is unfair.  He said, had he known how much it would cost to cancel the 
policy, he wouldnt have done so. 
One Sure said that it had sent Mr S its terms of business when  the policy started  which sets 
out the charges if Mr S cancelled  the policy. And it said the charges were in line with this. It 
also said, as the broker, its not responsible for anything  charged by the insurer.  It said the 
£1,028.62 was broken down as follows:
Premium charge for time held on cover £773.71
Legal Assistance  £34.50
Cancellation Fee £75.00
Loss of Commission Charge £145.41
Total amount payable £1,028.60
Mr S then entered  into a repayment  plan to repay the amount owed by paying  £20 per 
month. He then asked  this service to step in.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said the amount  being charged was in line 
with One Sures  terms of business  and the insurers terms and conditions.   She  said that she 
didnt think a cancellation charge of £75 was excessive. And she said the terms of business 
set out that One Sure would look to recover any lost commission from Mr S if he cancelled  
the policy outside of the initial 14 day cooling off period.
The adjudicator said that One Sure isnt responsible for the amount charged by the insurer 
and she said Mr S would have to raise  that with the insurer directly. 
Finally, the adjudicator was satisfied that One Sure had taken fair steps to highlight how 
much it would cost to cancel the policy. So she didnt think  it had acted unfairly.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators opinion because he didnt think  One Sure had taken fair 
steps to highlight how much it would cost to cancel the insurance policy.  He also said that 
the call handler  should  have explained all the charges when he called to cancel the policy.
As Mr S didnt agree,  the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN72889852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I think there are two issues to decide here:
1.Are the charges One Sure has charged fair; and
2.Did it take fair steps to highlight the cancellation charges when Mr S took out the policy?
I shall deal with each  point separately.
did it take fair steps to highlight the insurers charges?
One Sure wasnt the insurer, so it wasnt responsible for the amount  the insurer has charged  
for the time Mr S was insured. Mr S will have to raise  this separately with the insurer  if he 
remains unhappy with this. 
But, as the broker,  One Sure had a responsibility to highlight all significant terms of the 
policy. And I think this included how much the insurer  would charge to cancel the policy.  
Under the terms of the insurance policy, the insurer has set out that it will charge up to 30% 
of the annual premium  if Mr S cancelled the policy within the first two months   i.e. not a  
pro-rata refund.  One Sure had a responsibility  to highlight this to Mr S outside of the terms of 
the policy.
One Sure sent Mr S a copy  of the policy documentation when Mr S took out the policy. And 
this included a copy of the key facts document the insurer provided. This document sets out 
all the key terms and exclusion the insurer thought were relevant. This said:
Cancellation by you (after the cooling off period)
You may cancel this policy  by contacting us through your Insurance Intermediary. Providing 
there have  been  no claims  or incidents likely to give rise to a claim in the first period of 
insurance, we will refund the premium relating to any unused portion of cover  using the 
following scale:
1 month  75%
2 months 70%
As I said,  Im satisfied that One Sure would have sent this to Mr S. And in doing  so, I think it 
took fair steps  to highlight how much Mr S would be charged if he chose to cancel the policy.  
One Sures charges
One Sure has charged an administration fee of £75 to cancel the policy  in line with its terms 
of business. Any cancellation fee needs to be proportionate to the administrative task carried 
out. £75 is line with standard industry  charges.  And I dont think  its unreasonable for the 
amount of work  required  to cancel the policy. So I dont  think this is an unfair charge.
Ref: DRN72889853One Sure has also charged £145.41  to reflect the amount its lost in commission.  Its not 
unusual for brokers to want to do this. And I dont think this is unreasonable as its a loss its 
suffered due to no fault of its own. So I dont think its unfair that One Sure can charge this, 
but it must  take fair steps to highlight this when Mr S took out the policy.  
One Sure says that this was set out in the terms of business. But I dont think  only setting 
this out this in the terms of business after buying the policy  is sufficient. And I think  it could 
have taken further steps to highlight it. So I need to think  whether Mr S would  have acted 
differently had he known about the commission claw-back. I dont  think he would  have done.  
Im conscious that Mr S still took out the insurance policy even  though One Sure  had 
highlighted the high charge the insurer charged to cancel the policy. Im also conscious that 
it can often be more  expensive to buy commercial insurance policies directly from the 
insurer. So, given all this, I dont think Mr S would have acted differently had One Sure  
highlighted the cancellation terms more clearly   and this includes the fact that the £34.50 
premium for legal cover was non-refundable.
So taking all this into account,  I dont think One Sure has treated Mr S unfairly.  And I dont 
think it needs to waive or reduce the amount Mr S is being asked to repay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288985