K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains about British Gas Insurance  Limiteds (BG) service  under her HomeCare 
insurance policy. My references to BG include its agents.
background 
Mrs Ts HomeCare policy  with BG covers selected kitchen appliances for repair. 
In 2018 Mrs T called BG as her fridge freezer had problems. Mrs Ts policy says shes  
covered for gas cooker & electric freestda. She thought  freestda meant fridge freezer  and 
she said the BG representative  she spoke to agreed. An appointment for BGs engineer  to 
attend was booked.
On the day it was found BG had booked  an appointment to attend the wrong  address, a 
rental property Mrs T owns. Mrs T had taken  the day off work  for the failed appointment. On 
rebooking BG said she wasnt  covered for a fridge freezer at her home address. The electric  
freestda appliance on the policy meant  electric  freestanding hob.
BG accepted its mistakes  in booking the engineer  to the wrong property and in initially  telling 
Mrs T the fridge freezer  was covered. It paid £80 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs T complained to us that BG mis-led  her to believe her fridge freezer was covered  by the 
policy. She thought  the item should be covered as she made  a claim for it in 2011.
BG said Mrs Ts fridge freezer  was covered  in 2011  under an earlier policy  but that cover 
lapsed. When she took out a policy in 2016  the fridge freezer wasnt included. It sent us the 
sales call in 2016 when  Mrs T bought  the policy. BG said Mrs T didnt want cover for the 
fridge freezer and the appliances listed on the policy are as she requested.
Ultimately our investigator thought BG should pay Mrs T £70 compensation in addition  to the 
£80 it had already  paid.  In the 2016 call recording Mrs T chose not to take cover  for the 
fridge freezer. But something had gone  wrong in how BG set up the policy  and the wrong 
over/hob combination were covered. It should  confirm in writing  to Mrs T the appliances that 
were covered and amend as necessary.
Mrs T agrees with our investigators recommendation.  BG disagrees wants an ombudsmans 
decision. It said Mrs T was responsible for checking  her policy  documents  to ensure she has 
the right cover,  it had added the products she told it she wanted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that having  cover  for the wrong hob/oven  combination wasnt part of Ms Ts original 
complaint. But the matter  was addressed by our investigator in her view which BG reviewed 
and responded  to. For this reason I think I can now proceed with my final decision.
I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN71009482Ive listened to the 2016 policy sales call and Mrs T chose not to have her fridge  freezer 
covered under the policy. BG accepts it wrongly told her the electric freestda on her policy 
document meant her fridge freezer. But Mrs T didnt incur any additional  cost because of that 
mistake. She was able to fix the problem with the fridge freezer.
However, its clear from listening to the 2016  call that BG hasnt arranged  the cover for the 
items Mrs T asked for. She told BG she has a gas hob and electric oven. BGs 
representative said he would make sure the oven was recorded  as electric not gas. 
However, the 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 policy documents  state the appliances covered as 
including gas oven/cooker and electric freestanding  hob, which  is the wrong way round. 
Another appliance is listed as a gas hob, which is correct.
BG says its Mrs Ts responsibility to check if the policy  documents  are correct. But she 
wasnt given any reason to suspect BG had incorrectly recorded the items she clearly told it 
to cover.  I dont think its fair to put the onus  on Mrs T in this situation.
Overall, I think the policy documents are unclear about what oven/hob products  Mrs T is covered 
for. BG needs to confirm  in writing to Mrs T the appliances covered and amend as necessary.
I dont think the £80 compensation BG paid is enough for Mrs Ts overall distress and 
inconvenience due to how its dealt with her policy. She unnecessarily took a day off work  as 
BG gave  her the wrong information about  her fridge  freezer being covered, there was 
inconvenience about the engineer attending  her wrong property and BGs got her wrong  
oven/hob appliance covered. I think an additional  payment of £70 is a reasonable amount.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs T £70 compensation (in addition to the £80 its already paid) for her distress 
and inconvenience,  and 
confirm in writing to Mrs T her appliances  that are covered  by the policy  and amend 
as necessary.
British Gas Insurance Limited should do both of the above within  28 days of us telling it 
Mrs T accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7100948