K822xcomplaint
Mrs R has complained about U K Insurance Limited.  She isnt happy  about the way it dealt
with a claim under her home  emergency policy.
background 
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mrs Rs family made a claim under their home emergency policy as her boiler had broken
down. UKI sent a few engineers out over a few weeks  period.  It managed  to get her boiler
working on the first and second occasions. But the later attendances concluded that the
boiler had in fact been fitted  incorrectly and that a new flue was required which wasnt
covered under the policy.
All this left Mrs R without the use of her central heating for a short period. So she went onto
get a new boiler  fitted and complained to UKI about  how it handled her claim. And the fact
that she was left without  heating  because  it failed to diagnose what was wrong  with her
boiler; and that it didnt  come out and finalise the repairs. Mrs R felt that it should pay for her
new boiler in addition to some  of the costs  she incurred.
UKI accepted that it didnt turn out on the first occasion within a reasonable period of time
and offered £75 compensation. It also offered to pay Mrs R a £250  beyond  economic repair
contribution towards  the new boiler  and to refund a £50.30 additional  cost Mrs R was due to
pay as a gesture  of good will. But as Mrs R remained unhappy  she complained  to this
service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for her and partly  upheld  her complaint. He didnt think
that UKIs  engineers had done  anything wrong. This was because  there  wasnt  any evidence
that they had contributed to the problems with Mrs Rs boiler. But he did ask it to refund an
additional £242.75 that Mrs R was asked  to pay to get her boiler working on the second
attendance. This was because he didnt think it was fair that she had to pay a cost when the
boiler broke  down again so soon after and had to be replaced.
UKI initially accepted  this and offered to pay the £242.75 but it withdrew this offer when
Mrs R requested a final decision.  It said that it only agreed with the adjudicator to try and
conclude things. As the matter couldnt be mediated  it has been passed  to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I currently  think  that the
complaint should  be partly  upheld and the compensation level increased. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Rs frustrations here. I say this as the problems with her boiler werent
easily or quickly diagnosed. And this was compounded by the fact that UKIs engineer didnt
identify other  problems with the boiler  flue and installation during the first two visits.
UKI has explained that it wasnt  necessary  for their engineers to have identified  these  issues
when they first attended as they were  working  on different parts  of the boiler.  However, I
think it shouldve picked  up on these  issues  and its failure to diagnose the additional
problems left Mrs R without heating  for a longer  period that she shouldve  been. I agree with
Ref: DRN79187902Mrs R that had she have  been advised clearly at an earlier stage that she wouldve made
her decision  to replace  the boiler  quicker. And not been left without heating in the middle of
winter which  mustve been stressful given her families  health issues.
I know UKI now wants to withdraw its offer to refund  Mrs Rs £242.75, but as the repair of
the PCB board only lasted a day or so I think it is only fair that this should  be refunded. And
as Ive already  said it probably shouldve identified the wider problems with the boiler  at an
earlier stage in any event,  which wouldve  meant the part didnt need fitting at all.
Mrs R also feels  that UKI should pay for a replacement boiler as its engineers caused
damage to the boiler. But there  isnt any evidence to support her position.  So I think  UKIs
offer to make a £250 BER payment  seems  fair in the circumstances. And UKI has also
agreed to waive  an additional  payment of £50.30 that was due as the cost for one of the
repairs was over the £500 policy  limit which also seems fair.
Finally, UKI have acknowledged  that it shouldve attended Mrs Rs property far quicker than
it did when her boiler first broke down. It managed to get her boiler working  on that occasion
and offered to pay her £75 for the delay, which seems fair in the circumstances. But this
doesnt cover the additional stress  and inconvenience  caused by the delay in diagnosing
additional problems  with her boiler.
So overall I think that the complaint should  be partly upheld. While I accept that there  isnt
sufficient evidence to say that UKIs engineers caused damage to her boiler  and that its offer
of a BER payment of £250 seems  fair, I dont  think its offer of £75 compensation is enough. I
say this, as outlined above, I think that it shouldve identified the problems  with the boiler
earlier which  left Mrs R without heating for longer than she shouldve been.  So I think  that
£250 is a fairer reflection of the level of stress  and inconvenience caused.
replies
UKI accepted the position outlined  and made  no further comment  and Mrs R didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As UKI have accepted my provisional decision and Mrs R hasnt made any representations I 
dont propose to go over the evidence again  or change my position. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  I require  
U K Insurance Limited to refund the £242.75  plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. And to pay her £250 (total) compensation in addition  to 
the refund  of £50.30  and the BER payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7918790