K822xcomplaint
Miss P and Mr P have complained about  their home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc (RSA) in relation  to a claim that was made following an allegation by their neighbour that 
a water leak was causing damage next door.
background 
In 2016 Miss P and Mr Ps neighbour wrote  to them and said a leak from their shower was 
causing water damage in their (the neighbours) bedroom. Miss P and Mr P didnt think  this 
was the case  but they contacted RSA anyway. RSA asked them to get some quotes for 
trace, access and reinstallation work.
In 2017 RSA told Miss P and Mr P that as their home wasnt showing signs  of water 
damage, their neighbours really needed to show  what he source of the leak was. RSA also 
insured their neighbour. Experts reports were then commissioned by the neighbour, 
including an investigation in June 2017  that looked  at Miss P and Mr Ps bathroom.  
Ultimately Miss P and Mr Ps bathroom  was stripped  out but no leak was found. RSA 
reinstated the bathroom but the work wasnt satisfactory.
In February 2018  RSA offered Miss P and Mr P £1,000 compensation for the upset theyd 
been caused, £175 as an allowance for the five days they hadnt had bathing facilities  and 
some other sums to complete some outstanding work.
Miss P and Mr P complained to this service. They said they wanted us to re-assign the 
liability and award reasonable compensation. Whilst their complaint was being assessed the 
outstanding works were  resolved (but seemingly  not without some difficulties). 
Our investigator felt that RSA had handled  the claim  reasonably given the conflicting  
information available as to the cause of damage  but noted that significant  disruption was 
caused by poor works. He said RSA should pay a total of £1,500 compensation. He also 
noted the offer it had made of £175 as an allowance for the period Miss P and Mr P had 
been without bathing facilities. 
RSA said it would accept  the investigators  view. Miss P and Mr P remained unhappy. They  
said they particularly  feel that RSA failed  to follow due process; it should have investigated 
more before carrying out intrusive and destructive strip out works. If it had then all of the 
months of work would have been  avoided.  They  said they wanted RSA to accept  their 
neighbour was liable for the damage  and seek recovery from them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen reports from 2016 and 2017 as to the likely  cause of the water damage. I can see 
that a heat anomaly was found  in the area of the shower mixer tap. I couldnt fairly  expect  
RSA to have ignored that expert  report in favour  of carrying  out other investigation works, 
such as inspecting the roof. I appreciate that once the shower  was removed there was no 
sign of any leak but I think RSA acted reasonably based on the information it had at the time. 
Ref: DRN77329472I know RSA has considered whether to seek recovery  of its outlay, as well as 
Miss P and Mr Ps uninsured losses, from the neighbour. I can see their solicitors advice is 
that such an action  would  be unlikely to succeed.  In fact that it would likely fail. This 
conclusion seems to be based on the available evidence as to the cause of the damage  
which the solicitor doesnt  think is particularly strong. In matters  of recovery  RSA is entitled 
to rely on the opinion  of its experts  and sometimes a business decision,  based on the 
chance of recovery  against the risk of extra outlay, has to be made. 
I think RSA did handle  the reinstatement of the bathroom poorly.  It also seems it didnt 
communicate very well with Miss P and Mr P. I accept  what they say about Miss P having  to 
drive the repair  process. Whilst  I think RSA acted fairly to remove  the bathroom the fact that 
this was ultimately shown  to have been unnecessary  added  to the frustration 
Miss P and Mr P felt when repairs were done poorly. I think their distress,  frustration and 
inconvenience were  significant. Im satisfied that £1,500 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due.
My assessment though only goes up to the point in February 2018  when RSA offered to pay 
£1,000 compensation. This was around  the time Miss P and Mr P also complained  to this 
service. I know that resolving the snagging issues continued after this point and that this 
didnt go as Miss P and Mr P might have  hoped.  But I cant take that activity into account as 
part of this complaint.  RSA might want to consider its position in this respect though  and 
contact Miss P and Mr P directly with a view to resolving any outstanding dissatisfaction  they 
have without the need for a further complaint to be made to this service.  
Regarding the allowance for being without bathing facilities; whilst I know the family  was 
unable to use the shower for a long time it seems  they were  able to use the bath for all but a 
few days. RSA has offered £175  for this (£35 per day).  Often I associate an allowance  of this 
nature with covering any extra costs that have been caused, rather than offering  
compensation for inconvenience. Im also aware  that the bath had to be removed as part of 
the reasonably  necessary works. In the circumstances, I think RSAs offer is fair and 
reasonable.  I wont ask it to pay any more. If Miss P and Mr P want to accept this they 
should contact  RSA direct. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Miss P and Mr P 
£1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732947