K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining their mortgage  application and then charging an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they moved to another lender.  They  want  the ERC refunded  and 
confirmation that a particular  debt isnt anything to do with them.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  product with RBS, which if repaid early would mean theyd be 
charged an ERC. Mr and Mrs H applied for a new mortgage in order to borrow significantly 
more money and to transfer (port) their current product with RBS to order  to move home. 
The application was unsuccessful. Mr and Mrs H believed this was because a debt was 
written off for an individual with a similar name to Mr H, but they said that it wasnt  his debt 
as Mr H was abroad when it was written  off (but not when it was taken out). Mr and Mrs H 
went to another  lender and paid off the RBS mortgage early; they were required to pay the 
ERC as a result. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to RBS. It said Mr and Mrs H chose to repay the mortgage 
product, knowing of the ERC, after their application had been declined.  RBS said that the 
ERC was part of the terms and conditions of the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs H accepted  and 
they did repay the mortgage early. RBS said that it declined the application due to adverse 
information on its systems, and apologised that using the term commercial decision 
previously. It explained that it was unable to release  more information, but it had checked the 
information against that from Mr H, and was satisfied that it was fair to rely on the 
information it held.  RBS apologised for service issues and sent wine and flowers to 
apologise.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us, saying the debt wasnt  Mr Hs and that RBS and other 
lenders had given them  credit since the debt had been written off in 2008. They also said the 
written off debt wasnt on Mr Hs credit records. The investigators view was that despite 
RBS previously giving loans to Mr and Mrs H, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable to review new 
applications and carry out extra checks,  particularly when  more money is being borrowed. 
Lenders were able to use their commercial judgement in her view.  The investigator thought 
that there  was enough information to enable RBS to believe the debt was connected to 
Mr H, and noted that debts were  only on credit records  for six years (which may be why the 
debt wasnt recorded  there). She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They said RBS hadnt  taken reasonable steps to prove the debt 
was Mr Hs and conflicting information  had been  ignored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC is part of the terms and conditions  of the mortgage as a matter of law; this means if 
the ERC  is clearly set out (and Mr and Mrs H dont dispute that they were aware of it), and 
the mortgage is repaid early, legally RBS is entitled to the ERC.
Ref: DRN78721822The core of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that RBS unfairly and unreasonably declined  their 
application to borrow more money, which then led them to repay  the mortgage early  and the 
ERC. Ive looked carefully at the evidence available to me. Given Mr and Mrs H were 
applying to borrow significantly  more  money  than previously,  it isnt unfair  or unreasonable 
for RBS to have carried out extra checks not carried out before. The fact that the debt wasnt  
shown in Mr Hs credit records is irrelevant  as such records only note written  off debts for 
about six years; RBS held information  about  the written off debt within  its records.
Mr H says that the debt isnt his and points out information that isnt consistent with him 
being the debtor. But the information held by RBS also contains information consistent  with 
Mr H being the debtor,  such as the name and previous address. Theres  sufficient  evidence  
to mean  that it was fair and reasonable for RBS to conclude  that, despite  the conflicting  
information, the debt was connected to Mr H. I also note that the application didnt just fail 
due to this debt; RBS was uncomfortable with the overall amount applied for and the risk 
profile. The final decision is the underwriters,  and I cant say the reasoning was so unfair 
and unreasonable that RBS isnt able to rely on its commercial judgement.
Mr and Mrs H were aware that if they repaid the mortgage early, they would be charged an 
ERC. I cant  say therefore it was unfair  or unreasonable for the legally due ERC to be 
claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872182