K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about unsuitable  advice from Ainsworths  Financial Services Limited 
(Ainsworths) to switch  two stakeholder  pensions to a self-invested  personal pension 
(SIPP) in order to buy shares  in her employer.
background
In late 2011 Mrs K was invited to purchase shares  in her employer. A SIPP was set up and 
the transfer value of Mrs Ks two stakeholder plans of around £21,000 was transferred to the 
SIPP. The funds were  then used to purchase  around £19,500 worth of shares in Mrs Ks 
employer in January  2012.
In July 2017 a SIPP  statement confirmed the plans valuation of just over £10,000. In other 
words, the value of her employers shares  had materially reduced.
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  and initially considered Mrs Ks role within  her 
employer appeared to have been  largely administrative. He also felt Mrs K was not 
sufficiently senior or influential within her employer that she would have understood the 
increased risks involved with the transfer and share purchase. 
Mrs Ks employer  then provided additional  evidence. It persuaded the adjudicator  that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. He noted  Mrs K was present at high level meetings about 
her employers business operations and was copied  in on communications within  the firm 
such that she would have had a good understanding of her employers financial position and 
future business plans.
In addition, evidence  that Mrs K was a director of several limited companies  and was FCA 
regulated persuaded the adjudicator that Mrs K had a good understanding  of finance and 
would have been in a position to make an informed  decision about switching to the SIPP and 
investing in her employers shares.
Mrs K did not agree.
She reiterated that her role was an administrative  one only. She did not understand the risks 
of investing her pension in her employers shares.  Mrs K also said that she had not been  
given enough  information about the SIPP itself to appreciate the charges could be increased 
year on year or that additional charges might be applied in future.
Mrs K said that had she been  given this information  she would not have opened the SIPP.  
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In complaints where the evidence is either unavailable, inconclusive or in conflict, I base my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, what  I consider is most likely to have 
happened in all the circumstances. That is the case  here.
Ref: DRN74122152Mrs K has made detailed submissions, particularly in response to our adjudicators  view that 
her complaint should not be upheld. I am grateful for Mrs Ks submissions. But I trust all 
parties and particularly Mrs K, will understand why my decision only addresses matters I 
consider relevant to my decision. It is not my intention  to address every point raised.
Mrs Ks complaint has two aspects.  First,  that she was unsuitably advised  by Ainsworths to 
enter into a SIPP  arrangement and transfer  her stakeholder pension  funds to it and then 
invest in shares in her then employer; and second, that she was not made  aware of the full 
consequences in respect of the charges that her SIPP might incur  in future. 
In respect of the first aspect of Mrs Ks complaint, I should say at the outset that Ainsworths 
has denied that it was at any time Mrs Ks financial adviser and particularly  not at the time 
Mrs K opened the SIPP and bought  shares in her employer. Under  normal  circumstances, I 
would not necessarily take such  a denial at face value. That is because other evidence often 
emerges to counter  such a denial.
But in this case, no such evidence has emerged. Mrs K has not provided  evidence such  as a 
client agreement,  contemporaneous notes  of advisory meetings, a suitability letter or any 
other record to persuade  me that Ainsworths gave her advice about establishing the SIPP,  
the transfer of funds  to it or the subsequent share  purchase she entered into.
I appreciate that Mrs K has provided a copy of a declaration signed by her and her husband, 
dated 9 January 2009 which Mrs K says is evidence Ainsworths were her financial advisers.  
But I am not persuaded by this. It does not carry any endorsement by Ainsworths. It does not 
specify the terms under which the Client Agreement comes into effect. It does not say that 
Ainsworths will advise Mrs K on any and all of her future financial transactions. So I am not 
persuaded that Mrs K can rely on this declaration to assert that Ainsworths advised  Mrs K on 
the transactions of which she now complains, some 3 years after this limited declaration. 
I do not think it unreasonable to expect that Mrs K would have retained some evidence  of the 
specific advice she says she received from Ainsworths in respect of the transfer of her funds 
to a SIPP and the subsequent investment in her employers shares.
In the event, apart from the declaration referred  to above, the only evidence I have seen to 
support Mrs Ks assertion that Ainsworths advised her on these transactions is the Statutory 
Money Purchase Illustration of 5 April 2012, provided by Mrs Ks SIPP  administrator. 
This assertion  that Ainsworths  were  Mrs Ks financial  adviser - appears to be sourced in 
this respect from a hand written SIPP application  provided to it by Mrs K, dated 13 
December 2011.  
Whilst this does say Ainsworths were Mrs Ks financial  adviser,  I also note that under the 
heading IFA Ongoing  Annual Fee such  fee was confirmed as Nil to be paid to Ainsworths.
I am surprised that as Mrs Ks financial adviser,  it was apparently not taking a fee for 
advising Mrs K.
Of course,  that does  not prove Ainsworths were not Mrs Ks financial adviser,  even though 
as I have already  said, I have not seen other compelling evidence  to persuade me this was 
the case. But even if it was Mrs Ks financial adviser, I have not seen evidence  to persuade 
Ref: DRN74122153me it advised on or was consulted by Mrs K in respect of the transactions  of which she now 
complains.
On the basis that I have  not seen evidence to show Ainsworths advised on the specific 
transactions complained of, it is arguably  open to me to reject her complaint  on that basis 
alone. I cannot fairly or reasonably uphold Mrs Ks complaint on the basis  alone of 
unsubstantiated assertions.
But for completeness, my further reasoning for rejecting Mrs Ks complaint and the evidence  
I have seen to support  my reasoning, is set out below.  
Mrs K asserts that she was not knowledgeable  enough to be able to understand the risks 
involved with switching  plans and buying  shares in her employers company. However,  the 
evidence I have seen  shows  that Mrs K had a reasonable  level of knowledge of how her 
employer was performing financially and about  its future plans. I consider these would be 
important factors in deciding to invest in her employers shares.
Mrs K was copied in on notes of meetings about a range  of subjects connected  with her 
employers financial operations including its business  planning and due diligence. In addition, 
Mrs Ks job description noted she was responsible  for training  advisers  within her employer, 
a financial services firm. 
Mrs K was also involved in preparing management  information for her employers profit and 
loss account and balance sheet. 
In these circumstances, I am not persuaded, on the balance  of probability,, that Mrs Ks role 
within her employer was to only carry out the instructions of the directors of her employer as 
she asserts.  In other  words, that Mrs K was effectively a junior  employee,  tasked  only with 
administrative tasks that carried  no significant  responsibility.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys register also confirms that at the time, Mrs K had a 
controlled function authorisation (as a CF1Director AR) in her own right.  Mrs Ks CF1 
authorisation commenced in June 2008, over three  years before the transaction of which  she 
now complains took place.
I do not take such authorisation lightly. It is indicative of an individual with sufficient 
experience and knowledge  to undertake  regulated  or controlled functions.  The FCA 
describes controlled  functions as being .for relevant regulated persons and designated 
senior management functions  I  do not think such authorisation, as Mrs K asserts, would 
have been given to Mrs K only to facilitate her carrying out administrative duties. 
In my view, Mrs K would have had more than a cursory understanding  of the financial 
operations of a business and in particular of her employer. I also think  that as Mrs K was at 
the time regulated and authorised by the FCA, it is more likely  than not that she would have 
taken a keen interest  in the activities and performance of the business under whose auspice 
she was authorised and regulated by the FCA.
I have also noted  that in respect of Mrs Ks directorships  as listed  on the FCA register and 
for each  of which she retains CF1 authorisation, her biography on one says:
Ref: DRN74122154(Mrs K) has nearly 20 years experience within financial services having worked at Royal London 
and HSBC. (Mrs K) holds  a degree in Business Management  and is Part Qualified to Level 4 
Diploma.
Whilst on the second, Mrs Ks biography says in part:
 (Mrs K) has over 15 years experience within  financial  services,  gained via a variety of 
different roles. Whilst studying  part time for a degree in Business Management,  she worked 
for a life office  before moving to work within the IFA sector.
I understand that both companies provide financial advice and are regulated by the FCA.
I conclude from the evidence above that it is more likely than not that Mrs K was 
experienced and knowledgeable in respect  of financial matters and would have understood 
the financial position and prospects of her employer. 
More specifically, in my view Mrs K would more  likely than not have been  able to understand 
the transaction she entered into and to have sought clarification of information  provided at 
the time which she did not understand or to have sought further information if she felt the 
information provided was inadequate for her to make an informed decision.
I note that the Share  Application form, which Mrs K signed on 23 January  2012, said, 
amongst other matters,  that Mrs K warranted that she:
has made  his or her own independent assessment  of the merits or otherwise
of acquiring unlisted shares in  the  Company and  has sought  his  or her
independent professional advice in respect  of the same.
I have noted that Mrs K says Ainsworths failed its regulatory obligations to her by not 
providing her with the required  information, including the prospectus,  at the time she bought 
the shares. But at the time,  Mrs K was CF1 authorised. She would therefore have then been 
aware of the regulatory obligations she now complains were not met. 
And if, as Mrs K asserts,  her duties were administrative only,  then those would almost  
certainly have brought her into contact with the prospectus. Mrs K would then presumably 
have had an opportunity to read it. 
I therefore conclude  that as Mrs K has not provided me with persuasive evidence to show 
that at the time, she was unhappy  with the capital  raising process and associated share 
issue, that on the balance of probability,  she was content to proceed with the investment on 
the basis then applying. 
In light of the evidence about  Mrs Ks business  and finance experience  I conclude  that she 
would have understood that she was switching her pension in order  to purchase  shares  in 
her employer and in the knowledge that the performance of her SIPP was tied to the future 
share price of her employer. 
The second  aspect of Mrs Ks complaint is that she was not provided  with information about 
how the SIPP provider  could review and increase its charges over time. As I have concluded  
that there  is no persuasive evidence to show Ainsworths was responsible  at the time for 
advising Mrs K, I do not hold it to account  for this aspect of Mrs Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN74122155However, the SIPP illustration of April 2012  disclosed that the annual  administration charge 
was then £450. It went on to say that this charge was the minimum basic  administration 
fee and that There are circumstances where  fees may be higher or additional fees may 
be charged. 
I appreciate Mrs K say she should  have been  explicitly warned that the SIPP  fees could 
increase. But Mrs Ks fees have increased  as a result of higher administrative costs because  
regulation of investments such as unlisted shares has become more  onerous in recent 
years. 
In my view, it would not have been  practical to list all the future circumstances in which SIPP  
fees might  increase. But the illustration was clear that there  were  circumstances in which 
fees might  increase in future. I think it not unreasonable to conclude that this caveat included 
potential further  regulatory obligations. 
So I am satisfied the charges and that they could  be increased, was properly disclosed. 
In short,  it was clear the charges could increase, which would, or should have been, been  
part of Mrs Ks consideration  of the suitability  of the overall proposition  at the time. I 
appreciate that Mrs K says she was not given the illustration until after the transfer and the 
share purchase. I cannot agree or disagree as I was not present at the time. 
But I am not persuaded that given Mrs Ks experience  and knowledge at the time that she 
would not have enquired  about the charges associated  with the SIPP.
I understand the difficult position Mrs K is now in given the on-going  charges of the SIPP  are 
eroding her fund given  the diminution  of value in the shares of her employer. I understand 
that Mrs K has now liquidated  the investment in her former employers shares and has 
therefore crystallised her loss. 
It is unfortunate that the shares Mrs K purchased have not performed as she expected. In 
my view, this is the crux of Mrs Ks complaint. But investment  performance  alone is not a 
matter this service considers a fair or reasonable basis on which  to complain. Risk is intrinsic 
to most investments. I think Mrs K would have  been aware of this at the time she invested. 
The SIPP application Mrs K signed in order to facilitate the investment said she:
.is aware that past performance  is not necessarily a guide to the future. The
Investment  and  any  income  from  it  can  go down  as  well as  up  and  the Schem e  may 
not get  back the money  originally  invested.  The Investment may be considered  high risk 
and the Member is aware of the advantages  of having a balanced pension portfolio. 
In all the circumstances I have set out above,  I am not persuaded I have a fair or reasonable 
basis on which to uphold  any aspect  of Mrs Ks complaint. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Ref: DRN74122156Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7412215