K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Indigo  Michael Limited  (trading as SafetyNetCredit)  (SNC)  lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
In May 2016  Mr M opened an account with SNC.  The account was an open ended  credit 
agreement with a credit limit of £350. Mr M was allowed to borrow up to his credit limit and 
was expected to repay what hed borrowed when he was next paid. If Mr M was unable to 
repay everything hed borrowed than he had to pay a minimum repayment  which  was 
automatically set so as to avoid incurring interest on the outstanding  balance.
Mr M used  the account for approximately five months. By this time his credit limit had been 
increased to £860.
Mr M later complained to SNC that it had lent to him irresponsibly. SNC disagreed  and said it 
had carried out checks to make sure that Mr M could afford  to open the account and make 
the repayments.
Mr M wasnt happy with SNCs response so he complained to this service. He wants  all of 
the interest and charges hes paid to SNC  refunded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that SNC had carried  out proportionate  
affordability checks and that the information  available to SNC showed  that the credit facility  
was affordable.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said at the time of opening  the credit  facility he had payday loans 
which were unaffordable and that SNC hadnt  taken  his previous borrowing history into 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SNC had to assess Mr Ms application for a credit limit of £350  (and any subsequent 
increases) in order to check  that he could afford the repayments. It needed to carry out these 
checks in a way which was proportionate  to the circumstances. It then needed  to assess  
whether  based on the information it had obtained from its proportionate checks   Mr M 
could afford  the repayments sustainably. 
SNC has said that it carried out detailed checks before lending  to Mr M.
Ive looked at the checks which SNC carried out and the information it obtained about Mr Ms 
financial circumstances. SNC had access to 90 days of Mr Ms bank statements before it 
opened the account and it continued  to have  access to these  statements  on an ongoing  
basis prior to increasing Mr Ms credit limit. The bank statements showed  that Mr M used 
payday lenders  but also showed that he had disposable income in excess of £1000 every  
month which was sufficient for him to afford  the credit account.
Ref: DRN78881522SNC also carried out a credit check.  This showed that Mr M hadnt defaulted on any 
accounts in the 24 months  prior to opening the credit account. It also showed that he had no 
county court judgments  and that he had a good  history of settling short  term loan accounts.  
Based on the information available from Mr Ms credit file I dont think there  was anything to 
suggest that Mr M had any recent or serious  financial problems.
Ive considered all of the information about Mr Ms financial circumstances which was 
available to SNC at the time when  the credit  account  was opened. Ive also taken  into 
account what Mr M has said about  his circumstances at the time. Whilst I can see that Mr M 
had some payday loans and other expenses, his overall expenditure was well within his 
income and he had sufficient disposable  income  each month to afford the credit account.
It appears that Mr Ms circumstances  changed after the credit  account had been opened. 
This isnt something which SNC could be expected to foresee before it increased the credit 
limit. I would have expected SNC  to have  responded positively and sympathetically  if Mr M 
told it he was experiencing financial difficulties. In this case I can see that the credit account  
was settled in March 2017.
Having considered all of the available  information  Im satisfied that SNC carried out 
proportionate checks before opening  the credit  account. For the reasons Ive given I dont 
uphold the complaint and I wont be asking SNC to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7888152