K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the way Capital Homes Loans  Limited  treated him when  his buy to 
let mortgage reached  the end of its term and the actions it took when it sold his property to 
repay the mortgage.
To resolve  the matter Mr K seeks compensation for the way hes been treated and 
the shortfall that resulted  from the sale.
background
Since 1997 Mr K had owned a property,  which was split into flats and let by him. In 
January 2007  he re-mortgaged  with Capital Homes Loans Limited, (CHL), and through a 
broker took out an interest only buy to let mortgage, which was secured over the property. 
A valuation  carried  out in December 2006  put its market  value at £300,000.
According to the brokers  recommendation letter, Mr K wanted to re-mortgage at the time to 
take advantage of existing  interest rates to raise  capital to buy a new buy to let property. 
The letter said Mr K planned to move to a capital and repayment  mortgage at a later date 
and also that he planned to repay the loan by downsizing.
Mr K initially  borrowed around  £200,000  in 2007.  In 2008 he borrowed a further sum 
of around £46,500  to help with improvements to the property which was added to the 
mortgage. The term of the full mortgage  was eight years,  which came to an end on
26 January 2015  when  the mortgage was due to be repaid.
Mr K says he had planned to sell the property during the term of the loan to repay  it, but the 
banking crisis hit, and the value of his property fell. He says he wasnt  able to sell as hed 
intended, or re-mortgage with another lender, as many buy to let lenders had withdrawn 
from the market.
CHL says it had been reminding  Mr K as far back as 2012 that hed need to repay 
the mortgage at the end of the term.
Mr K says hed been carrying out ongoing  improvements to the property  to try and attract  
a purchaser, but it had become clear  to him that a significant upgrade  was needed,  and 
hed lost some potential buyers  as a result of lending  for this type of property becoming 
more difficult to get. Hed also been  unable  to get finance to modernise the flats or to re-
mortgage.
A potential  buyer showed interest  in buying the property  in January 2014 for around
£365,000 on the basis completion would be delayed by nine months so works  could  be 
carried out. Mr K let CHL know about  this. But the buyer pulled out when, as I understand 
it, their valuer said the property was in negative equity.
Later in 2014  Mr K exchanged contracts with other buyers (the Buyers), one of whom had 
previously invested  some money in doing up the property in around  2010. They  agreed  a 
purchase price of £246,500 with a deposit of £62,000. Mr K has said he regretted having to 
agree such  a low price but felt forced to do so by the circumstances.  Hes said the buyers 
planned to carry  on with works to increase the value.
At the beginning  of December 2014  Mr K told CHL he wouldnt be able to repay the 
Ref: DRN79157292mortgage at the end of the term. He reminded  CHL hed let them know  about  the sale that 
had seemed possible in January that year.  He explained that the potential  sale discussed  
in January 2014 had fallen through, but hed since exchanged contracts with the Buyers  
who were arranging finance to complete as soon  as possible.
CHL wrote to Mr K towards the end of December  2014  reminding  him the mortgage  would 
come to an end on 26 January 2015  and hed need  to redeem it then. It explained  how to 
make payment and that interest  would be payable at CHLs standard variable  rate until the 
loan was repaid  in full. CHL warned if Mr K couldnt  repay, he would be in breach of his 
mortgage conditions  and CHL would take steps to recover the mortgage debt. It said it 
was no longer lending and couldnt  offer him any new loan facilities.  And it said if there 
was a breach  of the mortgage conditions it might appoint Receivers and explained how 
that would  work.
The loan matured  in January 2015. Mr K wrote  to CHL shortly before the mortgage ended, 
explaining his situation and giving  more detail about his contract with the Buyers. He told 
CHL about the effect  the financial crisis had had on selling the property. He explained  
further works  needed to be carried out to the property and provided a valuation  report that 
had been prepared in 2013 for a previous potential buyer which  said the property was in 
particularly poor condition. The report said that, in its existing condition, the property wasnt  
suitable for traditional secured lending  purposes. It said there was evidence  of penetrating 
damp that might have  affected the timbers, water ingress through  various parts of the roof 
and disrepair in the flats which needed  full rehabilitation throughout.
CHL wrote to Mr K on 26 January 2015 pointing out he was in breach  of the terms of the 
mortgage as he hadnt repaid it on time and setting out the consequences  it had 
previously explained  in December 2014, as well as giving him a further  six months to pay.
Mr K feels  CHL initially failed to acknowledge  what hed said in his January 2015 letter 
about his plans to sell the property. CHL acknowledged this when it wrote  to Mr K on 2 
March 2015.
During April and May 2015 CHL and Mr K exchanged correspondence. CHL was 
gathering information about the plans Mr K and the Buyers  had to improve  the property 
and complete their purchase.
Mr K provided more information  requested  by CHL in May 2015.  He explained the Buyers  
needed ten to twelve months to carry out works  to the property required to put the 
property into a state of repair that would comply with the relevant  regulations  for letting a 
multi- occupancy building  before they could complete the purchase. And he listed the 
works that were planned as well as their approximate cost of £45,000. Some of the flats, 
at least, were occupied  at this time.
CHL arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property. The survey report  came through  in 
June and towards the end of that month  CHL and Mr K discussed how long the planned 
works were going to take. Mr K said realistically theyd take between ten and twelve 
months.
CHL says the surveyors report  said the property was in very poor condition, which was a 
breach of the mortgage agreement to keep the property in good and substantial  repair,  
and valued it at £180,000.
In early July 2015,  CHL told Mr K it had come to a decision  about how to proceed. It wrote  
to Mr K confirming again he was in breach of his mortgage agreement since he hadnt 
Ref: DRN79157293repaid the loan and telling him it planned  to appoint Receivers. Mr K applied for an 
injunction to stop CHLs action but was unsuccessful.
Mr K says the Buyers stopped work on the property because CHL refused to allow them  
time to complete  them.
The Receivers were appointed  in August but resigned shortly  afterwards  and handed 
the property back  to CHL to sell as mortgagees in possession. I understand the 
Receivers resigned because they had concerns that some of the tenancy agreements  
breached the terms and conditions of the mortgage and about the poor state  of repair  of 
the property.
Mr K asked for further time to sell in December 2015. But CHL decided to go ahead with 
the repossession and sale of the property.  CHLs  solicitor let Mr K know  CHLs decision, 
writing to him twice  in December. The solicitors also wrote to Mr Ks tenants  informing 
them the property  was going to be sold.
The property was put into auction  in early 2016.  The auctioneers  appraisal  report  
recommended an initial  guide price of £220,000  to £240,000, with a reserve of £230,000, 
but it didnt sell. The reserve was reduced  to £140,000 and put back  up for auction. The 
property sold around March 2016  for £175,000 leaving  Mr K with a significant shortfall on 
his borrowing. CHL asked Mr K to pay around  £107,000 in June 2016.
This service has considered other  complaints in relation to what  happened so its important 
to make clear what I am considering in this decision.  Mr K has raised  a number of issues  
as part of the complaint I am looking at here.  I will address those issues  and Mr Ks 
arguments, as far as is relevant and appropriate, in my findings. In summary, Mr Ks key 
complaint points are as follows:
The mortgage contract is unenforceable because it relates to a single property 
rather than a property  split into flats which are let and occupied separately;
The term of Mr Ks mortgage was extended without his knowledge;
CHLs  Power  of Sale under the mortgage contract hadnt arisen  when it decided  
to sell the property;
CHL didnt give Mr K enough time to sell the property to the Buyers  with whom  he 
had exchanged contracts or give them time to complete the works  that were  
needed so they could  access  funds  from their lender;
CHL didnt engage with Buyers itself;
CHL didnt take into account the financial crisis  and the position this left Mr K in;
CHL wrongly  decided  to sell the property at auction and the auction  wasnt 
properly conducted, which led to the property being sold for a lower price than 
ought to have been obtained;
The sale went ahead before Mr Ks complaints with this service had been resolved;
CHL didnt disclose it had mortgage indemnity insurance (MIG) before he took the 
mortgage out or give him details of this when he made a data subject access 
request (DSAR);
CHL sought to discredit Mr K with his tenants  and purchasers by (1) their actions 
and
(2) solicitors letters  that were written to the tenants  in December 2015, damaging 
his reputation;
CHL and its agents treated him unfairly  in breach of the principles of fairness set 
Ref: DRN79157294out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974;
CHL didnt let Mr K know  about its financial situation after the financial crash so he 
wasnt treated fairly in accordance with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidelines; and
The broker who sold Mr K the mortgage told him hed be able to extend  the term 
of the mortgage,  but this wasnt possible.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. In summary, he felt CHL had given 
reasonable consideration to Mr Ks proposals  to sell the property and it was fair, in all the 
circumstances, for CHL to go ahead with the sale of the property. He thought, based on 
the valuation evidence that was available, that selling the property at auction was a 
reasonable course of action and the price the property  was sold for was fair. He didnt  
think there was any evidence of MIG insurance or that the solicitors letters  to Mr Ks 
tenants were objectionable. And he didnt think CHL had treated Mr K unfairly.
Since Mr K didnt accept  our investigators opinion, I reviewed everything afresh to come  
to a provisional decision, an extract of which follows, and is intended  to form part of my 
final decision:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration the full file of evidence, and the additional  arguments  and 
documents Mr Ks helpfully  provided  since our investigator sent his view on Mr Ks 
complaint in January 2021. Although I dont think the new information adds substantively  
to the voluminous  information we already had.
I wont refer to everything the parties have told us or all the evidence theyve provided in 
my decision.  But Id like to reassure them Ive considered everything theyve said before 
coming to my conclusions. Where  the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider  
circumstances.
For the reasons  Ill explain, and whilst I know it will be disappointing for Mr K, whose 
strength of feeling  I acknowledge  and understand given the financial loss hes 
experienced and the unfair  way he thinks hes been  treated, I dont  intend  to uphold his 
complaint.
Mr Ks loan with CHL was not a mortgage regulated by the FCA because it was a buy to 
let mortgage secured  on property Mr K let to tenants. That means it isnt subject to the 
regulations set out in the Mortgages and Home Finance:  Conduct  of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB). But, because  the loan was secured by a charge on land and CHL 
came under our compulsory jurisdiction at the relevant time, I can consider the 
complaint. Under  our rules I can consider whether, in all of the circumstances of the 
complaint, CHL treated  Mr K fairly  and reasonably.
Mr K argues  CHL was bound by provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to 
treat him fairly in its dealings with him  Ill address  this later on. I understand that Mr K 
considers that his mortgage with CHL is captured by the unfair  relationship provisions of 
the CCA.  To be clear,  in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Ref: DRN79157295of the case, I will take into account relevant considerations. This includes relevant law and 
regulations. But I determine this complaint by reference to what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the case.
Ill now address Mr Ks individual complaint points.
The mortgage  contract is unenforceable because it relates to a single  
property rather than a property split into flats which are let and occupied  
separately
Mr Ks argued his mortgage  with CHL was invalid and therefore,  not enforceable as a 
result. Hes said the mortgage agreement only applied  to single dwelling properties and 
didnt apply to a multi-let flatted development like the property. Hes referred to a 
document in which  CHL makes suggestions  to its customers  about  how to maximise 
rental income to support  what  he says.
The mortgage conditions  say the property  could only be used as a single dwelling unless 
the mortgage offer provided otherwise. The mortgage offer did that. It set out, amongst 
other things,  the following Special  Conditions:
If it has not been licensed, the Borrower undertakes  to apply to the LHA for a 
licence immediately after completion  of the mortgage
Capital Homes Loans hereby consents  to the property being let out
Applicant to note that no letting  or renewals  of lettings on any basis  other than 
Assured Shorthold Tenancy Agreements are to be made without prior consent 
from Capital Homes  Loans Limited. It should  be noted that Capital Homes Loans 
Limited does not accept letting to tenants  receiving  Housing  Benefit.
Applicants to note that they must not occupy the property  (without the 
Lenders consent)  but will let it out. All lettings are to comply with the terms of 
the Mortgage Conditions and any Special Conditions in the Offer  document
Therefore, I do not agree  with Mr K. I am persuaded that the mortgage covered  Mr Ks 
situation because  the documents comprising the mortgage agreement included  the 
offer, and the terms and conditions and, together, they made  clear  the mortgage  could  
apply to a property which was a tenanted  property. This is in line with what Mr K was 
doing and how he was using the property. And whatever Mr K may think  about  the rights  
and wrongs of the suggestions CHL made  about  maximising rental income, they dont 
affect the terms of his mortgage. I am satisfied the agreement  was valid and applied  to 
Mr Ks property.
It is central to the agreement that under the terms and conditions of his mortgage with 
CHL, Mr K agreed to pay back the money he owed at the end of the term.
The term  of Mr Ks mortgage was extended without his knowledge
Mr K thinks  CHL extended the term of the mortgage  without his knowledge  and 
agreement. He thinks it did this so it could  sell the property quickly and this was unfair.  He 
suggests CHL artificially  extended the term by several months to overcome legal issues to 
help it in selling the property.
Ref: DRN79157296CHL explained to Mr K that as his loan had come  to an end and he was in breach of the 
mortgage agreement, it was necessary to extend the term for administration  purposes. It 
didnt constitute  an agreed term extension. It was purely administrative. CHL told him it 
didnt notify him of this since it was an internal administrative action.
In the circumstances, CHLs explanation  is entirely reasonable. Theres  no evidence 
there was any other reason for what CHL did here other than to treat the term, 
internally, as if it had been extended  so that CHL could  continue to manage  the 
mortgage, which was necessary  until Mr K had repaid it.
Mr K was not impacted by the fact CHL didnt tell him it was doing  this  and in practice  
what happened was CHL gave him time beyond the end of the term to discuss his plans 
for the sale of the property, which was to Mr Ks benefit. Mr K was still responsible for 
making his contractual monthly payments  under the terms of the mortgage until hed paid 
off the loan whether or not an extension was put in place.
CHLs Power  of Sale under the mortgage contract hadnt arisen  
when it decided to sell the property
Mr K thinks  CHL wrongly exercised its Power of Sale and says the reason CHL gave 
for doing so was because he was in arrears,  which he says he wasnt. Mr Ks referred 
to the definition of mortgage arrears in the FCA Handbook. This isnt relevant here 
since, as Ive explained, Mr Ks loan was unregulated.
I am satisfied the Power of Sale had arisen under the terms of the mortgage as Mr K was 
in breach of those terms in failing to repay the loan at the end of the term.
There were also other breaches  of the mortgage  which could have afforded  the business 
the opportunity  to seek to redeem the sums  owed in full, repossess and sell the property.
The mortgage conditions  required  Mr K to let the flats on assured  shorthold  tenancy 
agreements as Ive set out above.  Mr K disputes  CHLs assertions that some of the 
tenancy agreements  he had in place with his tenants at the property breached the 
mortgage terms.
Mr K emailed the auctioneers on 15 February  2016 setting out why he thought the 
auction particulars  were inaccurate. He said, amongst other things,  that the particulars 
didnt include all the tenancy agreements including two assured shorthold  tenancies 
which were both fully paid until 31 July 2019  and that there was a licence for the ground 
floor premises in connection with the licensees business. Theres  no evidence  CHL 
agreed to part of the property being  licensed so there seems to have been a breach in 
that regard.
In addition, I think the survey and valuation evidence about the poor condition of the 
property, which Ive mentioned and will discuss further below, supports Mr K was also in 
breach of the obligation to keep  the property in good and substantial  repair  and 
condition.
As the terms make clear, following a breach of the mortgage terms, the business 
could repossess and sell the property.
Ref: DRN79157297I can see CHLs Power of Sale instruction sheet  records the breach of the mortgage as 
being Mortgage  Arrears. It also gives the reasons for exercising  the Power  of Sale as 
payments becoming  erratic and arrears increasing, as well as there being no response 
to a seven-day letter. Arrears are recorded  as being just over £6,000.
I understand Mr K was making the contractual monthly payments (CMP)  until the 
Receivers were appointed. But neither the appointment  of the Receivers  nor the fact 
CHL was later taking  steps to sell the property meant Mr Ks obligations under the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage  had come to an end. And Mr K was responsible  for 
making the CMP until the mortgage had been redeemed.  CHL had made  this point clear 
to Mr K. So, if there were  arrears and the term had ended, the Power  of Sale form was 
right, and the business could sell the property to recover what it was owed.
Even if the form had been incorrect, for example due to administrative reasons, this 
doesnt mean CHL couldnt  go ahead with selling the property. The Power  of Sale had 
arisen because  of the breaches as Ive explained and CHL was entitled  to exercise it.
CHL didnt give Mr K enough time to sell the property  to the buyers he had 
exchanged contracts  with or give those buyers time to complete the works  
that were needed so they could access  funds from their lender
CHL didnt engage with prospective purchasers itself
CHL didnt take into account the financial crisis and the position  this left 
Mr K in
Ive set out the sequence of events  leading up to CHLs decision to sell in the background 
to this decision.
As Ive mentioned,  CHL says it had been reminding Mr K since  2012 hed need  to repay 
the mortgage when it came  to an end in January 2015. Mr K knew this and had made 
efforts to re-mortgage  and to improve and sell the property.  Unfortunately, the financial 
crash had made things  difficult, as buy to let lenders had left the market,  meaning it was 
difficult for him to re-mortgage or raise money  for repairs.  It also meant it could be difficult  
for new potential buyers to obtain  lending.
Mr K explained his position  to CHL and, as Ive mentioned, CHL administratively 
extended the term of the mortgage by six months to allow him time to progress  his 
plans to sell the property, which was a reasonable period  of time.
During April and May 2015 CHL and Mr K exchanged correspondence  as CHL tried to 
find out more  about  the plans Mr K and his buyers  had to improve the property and 
complete the sale. Throughout this CHL made  it clear to Mr K in its correspondence  that it 
expected the loan to be repaid  by 26 July 2015,  so it clearly managed his expectations.
The explanation Mr K gave CHL on 15 April 2015 about what payments would be made 
when to CHL was vague. He referred to a provisional offer from the buyers, suggested  
works would take around twelve months  and the final payment to CHL would be made 
once the works were  completed.  I can understand CHL would have wanted to clarify 
things and is likely to have been  concerned about  the length of time theyd have to wait to 
recover their lending.  CHL says it asked  for evidence the buyers had funding in place and 
would be able to redeem the whole  mortgage.
Mr K provided more information  in May 2015.  As Ive said,  he explained his buyers 
Ref: DRN79157298needed ten to twelve months to carry out works  required  to put the property into a state of 
repair that would comply with the relevant regulations for letting a multi-occupancy 
building before they could  complete the purchase. And he listed  the works that were 
planned as well as their approximate cost of £45,000.
The survey  report CHL had arranged, so it could consider Mr Ks plans, was delayed  until 
June. CHL had previously  managed Mr Ks expectations that the appointment of the 
surveyor didnt mean it would accept his proposals,  but it would help its senior 
management committee to consider  them.  CHL says the surveyors report  recorded the 
property as being in very poor condition  and valued  it at £180,000.
Towards the end of June CHL and Mr K discussed  how long the planned  works  were 
going to take.  From  what I understand, CHLs  surveyor  thought theyd take around two 
months, but Mr K said the surveyor had been told that ideally the work would take around 
two months, but realistically theyd take between ten and twelve months.  Mr K argues that 
wasnt an unreasonable period of time to complete the sale under the circumstances, as 
opposed to CHL rushing  to sell at auction  and incurring a loss.
For a number of reasons,  it was reasonable for CHL to be concerned about the time it 
might take for the works to be completed  and the uncertainty  about  whether the buyers 
would get the funding  they needed  be able to complete on the purchase:
The surveyors  report said the property was in very poor condition,  which  
was a breach of the mortgage agreement to keep the property in good  and 
substantial repair and valued it at £180,000.
Mr Ks mentioned the buyer was prepared to pay the full purchase price and pay 
off the amount Mr K owed at this time.  If the buyers had been willing to pay, I 
would have expected that to have been  discussed at the time and I havent seen 
any evidence it was. And other comments Mr K has made  conflict with his 
suggestion the buyers could have paid the full amount:
oMr Ks said the buyers mortgage was dependent on them completing the work.
oHes said the buyers  were aware of the situation  with CHL and concerned 
about the uncertainty as to whether  CHL would agree  their proposal to pay 
off the purchase  price  in tranches. He said the buyers were  reluctant to carry 
on with works while it was unclear what CHL planned  to do.
oHe told CHL no solicitors were  involved  in the sale and to save costs he 
planned to bring them  in at the end to handle completion. His plan was for the 
buyers to pay CHL to redeem the mortgage once the works had been 
completed, revalued and funds released,  so there would  be no shortfall.
CHL was also questioning how Mr K was going to pay over the deposit, since Mr 
K had explained the deposit had already been used towards improvement 
works, and be able then to redeem the mortgage  since the sale price  and 
mortgage balance  were similar amounts.
CHL considered everything at senior management committee  level and, in early July 
2015, told Mr K it had come to a decision. It wrote  to Mr K confirming again he was in 
breach of his mortgage agreement since he hadnt repaid the loan and telling him it 
planned to appoint Receivers.  CHL say this was only done as a last resort.  Mr K applied 
Ref: DRN79157299for an injunction to stop CHLs action but was unsuccessful.
The Receivers were appointed  in August but resigned shortly  afterwards  and handed 
the property back  to CHL to sell as mortgagees in possession as Ive explained.
Mr K asked for further time in December 2015.  He mentioned in correspondence with 
CHL hed been told another  potential  buyer  had made an offer to CHL buy the property, 
but I havent seen any substantive evidence about  that. And Mr K was concerned CHL 
hadnt contacted his buyers to discuss things  despite their investment in the property.  
CHL say there were some  discussions about whether it could help fund the buyers  
venture. But its explained  it didnt provide development finance  so couldnt assist  with 
that.
I cant see that it was CHLs  responsibility  to contact the potential  buyers directly to 
discuss things as Mr K suggested.  Mr K was responsible for paying  the mortgage  and for 
the property at the time, so it was up to him to deal with the buyers and CHL was entitled 
to make decisions based on the information  Mr K provided. Even  if CHL had spoken  to 
the buyers direct, as Mr K has suggested  it should  have  done, I dont think  it would have 
reassured the buyers about CHLs intentions,  which Mr K feels  was important as they 
were reluctant to carry on with works  while CHL was still considering things.  Also, I dont 
think that it would have given CHL any different information than it already had about the 
plans for the property  and payment of the sale price  that would have impacted its decision 
making. And, as Ive said, CHLs  explained  it wasnt in a position to help fund the buyers 
plans.
Mr K thinks  CHL took advantage of him being in a vulnerable position because of the 
financial crash, which  reduced the value of the property and put him into negative  equity. 
He feels CHL should have  given him more  time to sell the property.
I can see Mr K made efforts to try and get out of the very difficult financial position  he was 
in. Hed been  actively trying to sell and find buyers  who would be able to refurbish the 
property. A combination  of falling property values,  the poor condition  of the property and 
the need for works  to be done to meet the regulations Ive mentioned made  things 
particularly difficult for him. Mr K needed  buyers who were prepared to undertake  the 
works, which he acknowledges were needed,  and who were able to access  the necessary 
finance. His own experience showed  such buyers were hard to find.
Mr Ks described the agreement he reached  with his buyers as a bespoke  
arrangement brought on by the credit crunch and new lenders attitudes to 
requirements for multi-let  properties. I think this underlines the difficulties he was 
facing.
Im not persuaded that giving Mr K more time would necessarily have improved things for 
him. As Ive said, he told CHL he had already used the deposit hed received from his 
buyers towards the works.  Since the purchase price was roughly equivalent to the 
redemption figure, there would have been a shortfall on the amount he had to pay to 
redeem the mortgage once the purchase had gone through.  Hed told CHL he would be 
able to pay the full amount and mentioned the property would be revalued  once the work  
had been carried  out by the buyers. I dont think the agreement between Mr K and the 
buyers provided for this to happen.  And even  if it did, I dont think  CHL would have 
understood that from the information  Mr K provided  to CHL.
Mr K said he had also been paid in advance  on one or more of the tenancy  agreements, 
Ref: DRN791572910so hed be unlikely  to have been receiving income from those tenants to pay his CMP. 
And hed have been obliged to continue making  the CMP  until hed redeemed the 
mortgage. So, there was the potential for him to build  up arrears  adding  to what he 
already owed making his financial position  worse.
Mr K thinks  the real reason why CHL went ahead with selling the property was its own 
financial situation and the fact it was pulling out of the buy to let market. Theres  no 
evidence this influenced CHLs decision  making.  Even if CHL had commercial  reasons 
for preferring not to extend Mr Ks term, I would still expect it to have  treated Mr K fairly. 
I wouldnt have thought it fair for CHL to refuse an extension, for example,  purely  
because it didnt have  properly authorised staff who could deal with an application. But 
that didnt happen here.
CHL considered things  at senior  management  committee level before taking a decision to 
go ahead  and sell. From what Ive seen, I think  CHL gave fair consideration to Mr Ks 
proposals. And CHL kept Mr K informed about what it was doing and reminded him 
regularly of his obligation to pay off the mortgage  and about the consequences if he didnt.
Bearing everything in mind, and for the reasons Ive explained, I think it was fair for CHL 
to go ahead with the sale of the property.
In summary,  CHL gave Mr K sufficient time and opportunity to explain his plans for 
redeeming the loan, CHL took time to gather information about those plans and instructed 
its own survey  of the property so it could consider them on an informed basis. There  was 
no obligation  on CHL to accept Mr Ks proposals,  just to consider them fairly. CHL gave 
Mr Ks proposals fair consideration and time to see if a resolution could be found. It wasnt 
clear whether the funds needed to pay off the mortgage were going  to be available  even 
once the works had been completed. That seemed to depend on other  lenders being  
prepared to release  funds  after the property had been revalued once it had been brought  
up to the required  standards under relevant  regulations.
So, it was uncertain  when or if the money  would be there, and whether Mr K would  be 
able to redeem  the mortgage in full. And, on balance,  I dont think  Mr Ks overall  situation  
would have been significantly different if hed been  allowed  to progress the sale of the 
property in line with the plans he had. As Mr K was in breach of the mortgage terms, and 
as the term had come to an end Mr K was required  to repay  the mortgage. The sale of 
the property was permitted for this purpose  and in the light of there  being  no other viable 
option.
CHL wrongly  decided  to sell the property at auction and the auction wasnt 
properly conducted, which led to the property being  sold for a lower price 
than ought to have been obtained
The property was put into auction  in early 2016.  Mr Ks suggested by the time this 
happened, his buyers  could have completed  their works and gone ahead  with the 
purchase. But this conclusion  is uncertain - the time for the works to be completed was 
unclear and potentially lengthy,  and it was not guaranteed that the lending  for the buyers  
could be obtained.
Ref: DRN791572911It wasnt until around July 2015 that CHL felt it had enough information from Mr K about 
the works  and how long they would take to decide how to proceed.  So, on balance, I 
dont think there would have been enough time anyway, based on the estimates  of how 
long the work would take, for them to have been  completed before the property sold the 
following spring.
Mr Ks unhappy the property was auctioned  rather than being sold on the open market 
and he doesnt  think the sale price was fair.
Id expect CHL,  as a lender selling a property under a power of sale,  to take reasonable 
steps to achieve the best price it could. This would be in CHLs own interests  as much 
as those of Mr K given  CHL risked not being able to recover any potential  shortfall from 
Mr K.
CHL says it based its decision to go to auction  on earlier  advice from the Receivers that 
it would  be the most  cost-effective  option  given the poor condition of the property and 
issues with the tenancy agreements, the assessment  CHL had obtained in June  and the 
market value of the property.
Additionally, CHL says it wasnt possible to gain access to all parts of the property to 
inspect it or to confirm  each flat had a valid energy performance certificate, (EPC), which  
was needed to sell the property through an estate  agent. Mr K says EPCs were available  
for the flats, but he was never asked for them. The EPCs have not been provided to me 
and I have not seen further evidence on this point.
Whatever the position on that, I think,  on balance, the available  evidence suggests 
selling the property at auction was a reasonable course of action for CHL to take as there  
were clearly problems with the condition of the property and the substantial work it 
needed was likely to limit its market and make  selling through an estate agent more 
difficult. Mr K acknowledges refurbishment  works  were needed and has explained the 
difficulties hed had in selling, as well as the difficulties his buyers had in securing funding 
until those works had been carried  out. I think its fair to conclude other potential  buyers  
are likely to have been in a similar position.
The June 2012 report obtained, as I understand it, by CHL for security valuation  
purposes suggested externally the property  was in good condition at the time, but the 
valuer carrying out that report didnt look at it internally.
The 2013  valuation report, provided by Mr K, said the property was  by that time - in very 
poor condition  and worth considerably less than the price of £385,000 at which it was 
being marketed  at the time, although I appreciate  some works had probably been  carried 
out since that report had been  prepared. The report said the property had a value,  with 
vacant possession, of £225,000 if marketed  over a normal timeframe, but just £150,000 if 
it had to be sold quickly; the property wasnt suitable for traditional  secured lending 
purposes  it was more  suited to a cash buyer, most  likely  through auction; repairs  were 
needed for maintenance issues, such as damp and water penetration as Ive mentioned 
earlier. Overall,  the valuer felt the property was poor security.
Based on the evidence  I have seen, it was fair for CHL to conclude that an auction  was 
probably the right approach to attract buyers  with an interest in the sort of development 
project the property  presented  as Ive mentioned the 2013  report suggested the 
property would be suited  to cash buyers and therefore an auction  would have  been  
Ref: DRN791572912appropriate.
As to value,  as Ive said, the 2013  report said the property was worth considerably less 
than the price of £385,000 at which it was being marketed at the time. It said the property 
had a value, with vacant possession, of £225,000  if marketed over a normal timeframe, 
but just £150,000 if it had to be sold quickly.
Mr K had been forced to agree a lower price  with private buyers than hed have 
liked because of the property market and the condition of the property at 
£246,500.
The property assessment report CHL had got in June 2015 put a value of £180,000 on 
the property.
The Auction  Appraisal  report recommended  a guide  price of £220,000 to £240,000 and 
said this would encourage competition amongst occupiers, investors, property groups 
and speculators across the country.
Bearing in mind the varying valuations, I dont  think it was unreasonable  for CHL to accept 
the advice of the auctioneers, as professionals  in their field, to set an initial  reserve at the 
level they suggested and, when that wasnt achieved, to reconsider the price in line with 
their advice.
Mr Ks unhappy full information about  the property wasnt given in the auction sale 
particulars and feels this affected the value at which the property was eventually  sold. 
He says, for example, the particulars didnt include details of all the tenancies,  or the 
works being carried out. He complains too about the auction reserves and the price at 
which the property  was eventually sold.
Theres no evidence to suggest any gaps in the sale particulars were the result of 
CHLs actions and Mr K hasnt provided any evidence to show  they affected  the sale 
price.
When the property  didnt sell at the initial auction, the auctioneers  recommended  a 
reduction of 40%. Mr K thinks this was unfair. It was a significant drop. The auctioneers 
advised CHL on 8 March  2016 that no buyers had come forward and this was a sign of 
overpricing. They said the baseline appeared to be £140,000 with some interest being 
shown at £180,000.
They said they were  confident if they put the property into the auction at £140,000+  
theyd get strong interest and achieve the true market value. CHL says it considered 
the recommendation to drop the price at senior level and the property was put back up 
for auction with a reserve of £140,000. Again,  I think it was reasonable for CHL to rely 
on the auctioneers  recommendations.
The property sold in around March 2016 for £175,000, which  was significantly more  than 
the reserve and, still in line with the varying different valuations. So, overall, CHL acted 
reasonably to get the best possible price in the circumstances  and taking into account the 
varying opinions  as to the propertys overall value. Its unfortunate it left Mr K with a large 
shortfall, but CHL was not wrong  to sell the property in this way and achieve the price it 
did for the reasons Ive explained.
Ref: DRN791572913As Ive mentioned,  Mr Ks argued his financial circumstances and the impact of the 
financial crash  werent  taken into account  by CHL in going ahead and auctioning the 
property. But I dont  think delaying would have improved his position  as Ive explained. 
And the evidence relating to the condition of the property, how it should be sold and its 
achievable price  point towards  auctioning  the property being the appropriate course.
The sale went ahead before Mr Ks complaints with this service  had 
been resolved
CHL was entitled to go ahead with selling the property even though this service was 
considering Mr Ks complaints at the time.  There was no obligation on CHL to put things 
on hold because a complaint was being considered, and its action didnt affect this 
services ability to consider Mr Ks complaint. If this complaint had been upheld, I could 
have made  any such award  that would put Mr K back into the position  he had been in if 
the acts or omissions of CHL had not taken place. So, the fact that the property had 
been sold, and Mr Ks complaint was ongoing,  would  not have affected my ability to 
make any such  award as amounted to fair compensation.
CHL didnt disclose  it had MIG insurance before he took the mortgage out 
or give him details of this when he made a DSAR
Mr K argues  CHL was keen to sell at a discount despite this resulting  in a loss to him 
and CHL. He thinks this can only be explained by CHL having  a mortgage indemnity 
guarantee insurance (MIG) in place under which it would  be insured against  any loss it 
incurred.
CHL explained to Mr K in May 2018 in its response  to his DSAR  that it had no record of 
any MIG being applied for in his case.  CHL pointed  out there is no reference to MIG in 
either his original mortgage offer,  or the offer for the additional borrowing, and it has no 
record of an application  by Mr K for MIG.
Theres no evidence of any MIG so I dont think CHL has failed  to disclose it existed.
Since there was no MIG, it cant have  influenced  CHLs decision making  regarding  the 
sale of the property. Im satisfied that the sale of the property was necessary to repay the 
loan so far as was possible.
Mr K recently suggested CHL may have had mortgage indemnity insurance that 
provided cover across all its borrowing on the basis such cover  was available in the 
market, but he hasnt provided  any evidence that CHL had taken any out.
CHL sought to discredit Mr K with his tenants and purchasers by (1) their 
actions and (2) solicitors letters that were written  to the tenants in 
December 2015, damaging his reputation.
Ive addressed earlier Mr Ks concerns CHL didnt engage directly  with his buyers, or 
another possible buyer hes mentioned.  direct. Theres  no evidence that this impacted 
Mr Ks reputation with the buyers as hes said.
Mr K says letters sent by CHLs solicitors to his tenants were  aggressive and defamatory. 
Ref: DRN791572914He provided a statement from one of his tenants about the impact the letters had on them  
and the negative impression the tenant felt the letters gave  about  Mr K.
CHL says the letters were  informing the tenants of the steps being taken in relation to 
the property.
A solicitors letter to the tenants on 7 October 2015  was sent on behalf of the Receivers, 
not CHL, so I dont  consider that here.
The solicitors sent two letters on behalf  of CHL in December. The first at the beginning of 
the month said that, as the owner  of the property [Mr K] had failed to remedy  breaches of 
the mortgage conditions, CHL was entitled to exercise its Power of Sale and sell the 
property, and theyd  been instructed to take steps to sell without further reference to the 
tenants. The letter suggested the tenants contact the property owner  and seek  legal 
advice.
The second  letter sent on 24 December 2015  confirmed CHL was going ahead with 
selling the property and that agents  would be in touch to arrange  viewings.
I think the timing of the second letter could have been better   just before Christmas  
but it didnt impact Mr K directly and it was reasonable and appropriate for CHL to keep 
the tenants up to date with its plans through its solicitors. Theres no evidence CHL told 
the solicitors to send  the letter at that time.
I think both letters were  factual and clear. Whilst I understand the tenants may have been  
concerned about  their situations, there are no comments about  Mr Ks character.  And I 
dont think CHLs contact, or that of its solicitors, with the tenants meant Mr K was treated 
unfairly.
CHL and its agents treated him unfairly in breach of the principles of 
fairness set out in the Consumer  Credit  Act
Mr K argues  he hasnt  been treated fairly  in accordance with the principles of fairness set 
out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA), in particular  sections 140A  140D.
The relevance of the CCA to my consideration of Mr Ks complaint is that it is 
something I need to take into account,  if it is relevant law, when coming to my decision 
about whether  CHL treated Mr K fairly and reasonably.
I agree  with Mr K that s.140A of the CCA  would  apply if the matter came  before a court. 
It states that a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following
(a)any of the terms of the agreement  or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights  
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
Mr K considers that CHL exercised or enforced its rights under the agreement unfairly, so 
Ref: DRN791572915he is relying on (b) above.
The provision doesnt alter how I consider Mr Ks complaint and what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. This is because  I cant  make  a ruling as to the 
outcome of s. 140A - its for a court to decide if the relationship  between  the creditor  and 
debtor was unfair. But I can look at the evidence  and see if it suggests the Court would be 
likely to reach such a conclusion. In doing so, Ill take account  of all relevant factors. And, 
having done so, I come to my conclusion about what is fair and reasonable.
Whilst Mr K believes these provisions affect  the outcome of his complaint, I cant  see that 
they do. CHL acted fairly in exercising its power  of sale in line with the terms of the 
mortgage agreement  when Mr K wasnt able to repay the mortgage as Ive explained  
above.
CHL didnt let Mr K know about its financial situation  after the financial  
crash so he wasnt treated fairly in accordance  with FCA guidelines
Mr K says CHL ought to have informed  him of its financial position  in 2008. Mr K says if 
hed known about CHLs financial  situation  sooner, hed have taken steps to refinance  
elsewhere.
CHL told Mr K in March  2015 it hadnt  been its long-term company strategy  to withdraw 
from the market and it wasnt aware when he re-mortgaged in 2007  that the economic 
crisis would force it to withdraw from the market. But it said since  it was no longer lending, 
it didnt have the facility to extend  the loan or offer a new one.
Mr K sought  guidance from the FCA about the information it would expect CHL to have 
provided to its customers about  its financial situation. The FCA told Mr K CHL should 
have told him if its financial situation was likely to affect the terms of his mortgage or 
any future lending. These situations did not arise  here - there  were  no changes  to Mr 
Ks mortgage, which had come to an end, nor was there further lending.
The FCA also said CHL should have communicated any information about a change in 
the way it did its business,  such as no longer being  able to lend money,  in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. But CHL didnt have to tell its customers  individually about 
such changes  it could  do it, for example, via its website.
CHL says the position was clear  from its website in 2008 that it was withdrawing from the 
market. I havent seen the website as shown at the time, but I have no reason to doubt 
what CHL says regarding a widely advertised  message on this point.  It has provided 
accurate information  in the course of this complaint and has been  co-operative and 
consistent. Even if CHL did not display the information on its website, I am not persuaded 
that the outcome of this complaint would be substantially different. This is because  Im not 
persuaded, and Mr K hasnt provided any evidence,  that even if hed tried to move his 
mortgage, hed have been able to find a loan with an alternative lender  given  the 
downturn in property values and the shrinking of the buy to let market.
So, I cant reasonably  find Mr K suffered any loss as a result of not knowing about 
CHLs intention to leave  the market sooner than he did. It seems to me that Mr K did not 
research this point  at the time because it was not relevant to him. He had obtained 
lending and he planned to repay the mortgage  by the end of the term.
The broker who sold Mr K the mortgage  told him hed be able to extend  
Ref: DRN791572916the term of the mortgage but this wasnt possible
The broker  was independent of CHL so I cant consider a complaint about the broker 
against CHL. This complaint is against CHL only.
Mr K has made enquiries to see whether CHL was on the panel of lenders whose 
mortgage products  his broker, as an appointed  representative under a network of 
advisers, could recommend. He established CHL was on that panel.
Mr Ks concerned there  may have  been  some wrongdoing in the sale of his mortgage in 
light of an FCA finding that the company running  the network had been getting around  a 
ban on commission payments through commercial arrangements it was making  with its 
panel retail investment providers.
I dont think there is any evidence of wrongdoing by CHL here, or of a connection 
between the broker  and CHL beyond CHL being  on the networks panel  of lenders 
which suggests theres been any sort of wrongdoing as Mr K suspects.
In summary, having considered  all of Mr Ks complaints, and whilst  I empathise with the 
very difficult position Mr K is in, I have concluded that CHL treated him fairly and 
reasonably in all of the circumstances and I dont uphold his complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Ks complaint.
developments
CHL acknowledged, but made no comments on, my provisional decision. 
Mr Ks made some comments  regarding the process this service has followed in considering  
his complaint, which this service has responded to separately and independent  of my 
consideration of his complaint about CHL. I dont address  that here save  to say that the 
parties have had the opportunity to consider  my provisional findings  and to comment on 
them. Where  either party  disagrees with my conclusions, they have had ample opportunity to 
provide additional evidence and information.  Mr K has done that  hes made  further 
comments and provided additional documents which Ive considered  very carefully  in 
reaching my final decision. 
Mr K says I havent referred to some of the documents  hed previously provided. I explained 
in my provisional decision:  
Ive taken  into consideration the full file of evidence, and the additional arguments  and 
documents Mr Ks helpfully  provided  since our investigator sent his view on Mr Ks 
complaint in January 2021. Although I dont think the new information adds substantively  
to the voluminous  information we already had.
I wont refer to everything the parties have told us or all the evidence theyve provided in 
my decision.  But Id like to reassure them Ive considered everything theyve said before 
coming to my conclusions. Where  the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider  
Ref: DRN791572917circumstances.
Mr K has said I didnt  specifically reference, in my provisional decision,  his email of 21 
March and attachments.  Id like to reassure him I considered that email and the 
attachments  they form part of the full file of evidence,  and the additional arguments and 
documents Mr Ks helpfully  provided  since our investigator sent his view on Mr Ks 
complaint in January 2021 that Ive referred  to above.
Id like to reassure the parties that I have adopted  the same  approach  in coming  to this 
final decision. I set out below  a summary  of the points Mr Ks made in response to my 
provisional decision. I dont set out in this summary  everything Mr K has said and I dont 
mention specifically the documents hes provided. But I have considered everything, as Ive 
said. 
Mr K makes  the following general points:
1.The principles of fairness havent been applied to him and CHL equally bearing in 
mind the impact of the 2007 financial crash  on each of them.  CHL unfairly  
exercised its power of sale against Mr K despite the sale he was trying to finalise. 
CHL expedited the auction sale. The auction  particulars were  inaccurate.
2.The court didnt allow Mr K an injunction because CHL told the court it didnt intend 
to appoint a Receiver  but CHL then went ahead and did so straight  away.
3.CHL hasnt directly responded to the question of whether it took out mortgage 
indemnity insurance and this service hasnt asked CHL directly about that. This 
service has simply  said theres no evidence of insurance cover.
4.The principles of fairness dictated by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  apply  and are 
exemplified by the Financial Conduct  Authoritys statement  to Mr K that firms 
should tell their customers about any situation  that is likely to affect  the terms of 
their mortgage or future borrowing. CHL didnt tell Mr K it had been stopped from 
lending and hasnt  provided evidence its website  showed  this. 
5.Despite what CHL has said, the evidence  shows  it was connected  to the brokers  
who sold the mortgage and on the limited panel of lenders the broker could 
recommend. 
6.Although buy to let mortgages arent  covered by the FCA, the FCA said if a firms  
financial situation was likely to affect the terms of the mortgage or any future  
borrowing, information about  that should  have been  provided. The Consumer  Credit  
Act 2006 and the Office of Fair Trading  Rules also apply and reinforce that CHL 
behaved unfairly in light of the financial crash, manipulating things to its advantage 
and to Mr Ks disadvantage  as a vulnerable party who was trying to resolve things  
to the satisfaction  of both him and CHL. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr K says:
7.The CHL mortgage conditions relate to single let properties, not multi-let properties. 
The tenancy  agreements were all assured  shorthold tenancy agreements. There 
was no letting to tenants on housing benefits.  The recommendations CHL gave to 
landlords were against their lending rules and CHL didnt give advice about  what  to 
Ref: DRN791572918do legally  if a tenants circumstances changed.
8.CHL extended the mortgage for a period longer than the initial six months it granted  
Mr K. CHL did this unilaterally and unfairly  for conveyancing purposes to allow  it to 
state in the auction  sales  particulars  incorrectly - mortgagee not in possession.
9.Mr K doesnt understand the reference to arrears  as he made  mortgage  payments 
up to August 2015 when the Receiver  took possession to collect  the rent and 
maintain the property.
10.The tenancies  were all Assured Shorthold tenancies which CHL never asked to 
see. The informal licence,  which Mr K disclosed,  did not impact CHL. It was a 
simple agreement allowing the licensee some limited storage in the basement  for 
their business and didnt bind CHL or affect  their legal  security. He questions  why I 
referred to this since CHL said the reason for exercising its Power of Sale were 
arrears. 
11.The 2012 report from CHLs own field manager said the property was externally in 
good condition  and being maintained. It recommended that CHL continue working 
with the owner  as this type of property would be unmanageable by a receiver.  This 
is evidence CHL were planning  repossession  at the time. This expedited 
improvement works and later surveyors used the fact that disruptive  works  were 
going on as a reason to devalue the property without projecting what  the value 
would be once  the works had been  completed. The June 2015  report  hasnt been 
disclosed.
12.The drop in price  at auction from an initial price  of £220,000 - £240,000 to £100,000 
was significant  and known to be a trick used at auction sales.
13.The provisional decision makes little mention of the fact contracts had been 
exchanged, a substantial payment had been made, the buyers  clearly wanted  to 
complete in a timely manner,  CHL gave them implied consent for the work to finish 
and for the sale to complete. But that also limited things as CHL refused to be 
flexible about  completion, which created uncertainty and led to work stopping.
14.CHL should  answer directly whether  MIG was in place including whether it had a 
block policy.
Mr K summarises his response by saying that the facts show it was the financial  crash  that 
led to the problems so its unfair for either party to be given favourable  priority.  But he says 
CHL tried to use unfair practices, including  tactics of a defamatory  nature, against him as a 
small borrower with limited resources so, essentially, it would be fair to find in Mr Ks 
favour. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments Mr Ks made  in response to my provisional 
decision and Ive considered the documents hes sent us. Most of the documents  had 
already been provided but where the documents  are new, for example extracts from Office 
Ref: DRN791572919of Fair Trading guidance and further  information about a former CHL directors  activities, 
Ive looked at them carefully  and considered  if they persuade me to change my mind. 
The arguments presented by Mr K appear to be recycled points that he has already made, 
and I am already  aware  of them.  I dont think the new documents are material or take 
matters forward. Ive nevertheless taken  them  into account in reaching  my decision,  as Ive 
explained above - but they dont  change my mind. 
Whilst I appreciate how strongly Mr K feels about  this matter, his response  overall  is a 
general disagreement on the conclusions  I have reached. In any event, I have considered  
those points and the file in depth  before reaching  my final decision. 
Ill explain  why Mr Ks arguments dont change my mind by referring and responding to 
each of them. To make things clear, Ill put Mr Ks points in bold type and my findings 
underneath.
1.The principles of fairness havent been applied  to him and CHL equally 
bearing in mind  the impact of the 2007  financial crash on each of them. CHL 
unfairly exercised  its Power  of Sale against Mr K despite  the sale he was 
trying to finalise. CHL expedited the auction sale. The auction particulars 
were inaccurate.
This service is impartial in its consideration of complaints. In coming to my decision, 
I have looked  at everything  afresh,  thought about  all the relevant considerations 
and come to a conclusion about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
There is no dispute that the financial crash  affected  the property markets, both in 
the value of properties and lending. But, for the reasons I set out in my provisional  
decision, I think CHLs actions were  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
Ks complaint.
I addressed why I considered CHL fairly  exercised its Power of Sale, even  though 
Mr K was hoping to sell the property  to the Buyers,  and why I didnt think the 
inaccuracies Mr K considers existed in the auction  particulars affected  the sale. 
I note Mr K believes  CHL deployed dubious tactics but I have not seen any 
evidence of that. Furthermore, Mr K hasnt offered any new evidence on those 
issues, so I havent  been persuaded to change my conclusions. Mr K wanted CHL 
to extend time for him to sell the property and not place the property  for sale at 
auction, but for the reasons Ive explained I am satisfied that CHL acted 
appropriately in the circumstances. I know this is a disappointment to Mr K.
But CHL allowed  Mr K an extension of time to repay his mortgage  when the term 
ended and gave  him the opportunity to explore options for doing so. The auction 
was a last resort when Mr K wasnt able to find a proposal that was acceptable to 
CHL. I dont think CHL disregarded  Mr Ks circumstances  when it took that step. 
And, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I am not persuaded Mr Ks 
position would necessarily have improved even  if CHL had given him more time. 
On balance, I dont  think Mr Ks overall  situation would have been significantly 
different if hed been allowed to progress the sale of the property in line with the 
Ref: DRN791572920plans he had. It seems to me that a shortfall was a real risk in this situation and 
allowing more and more  time for a sale would only increase  the sum Mr K had to 
repay.  
2.The court didnt allow Mr K an injunction  because CHL told the court it didnt 
intend to appoint a Receiver  but CHL then  went  ahead  and did so straight  
away.
Whilst I understand the point, the granting  or refusal  of an injunction  was a matter  
for the Court, and I do not make comment on that process. I set out some  brief 
information about the course of events  as I understand they took place, but overall  
this does not affect my consideration of the complaint. 
I can understand Mr K would have been  disappointed that CHL went ahead and 
appointed a Receiver if, as Mr K says, it had told the court,  during  the injunction  
hearing, it didnt intend  to do so. The document Mr K relies  on is, as I understand it, 
an extract  from a judgment  made  in July 2015.  In it the judge  notes, broadly, that 
the courts powers  to adjourn possession proceedings or delay possession being  
taken under section  36 of the Administration  of Justice Act hadnt arisen since  CHL 
hadnt started possession proceedings.  I note the judge mentioned, in that context, 
CHL didnt intend to start possession  proceedings  or appoint  a receiver. So, it looks  
as if CHL may have made that representation to the court. Its not clear to me, 
however, that Mr Ks application  for an injunction failed because  of any such 
representation. The issue the judge was considering here was Mr Ks application 
under section 36. And the court refused  Mr K permission to appeal at this stage.
Whatever CHL may have told the court, it doesnt affect my consideration of Mr Ks 
complaint. CHL had told Mr K it intended to appoint a Receiver before hed made 
his court  application.  I think CHL was entitled to consider  its position  and to decide 
what action to take once the outcome of Mr Ks court application was known.
From the court documents Ive seen, I note Mr Ks applied later for permission to 
appeal the July 2015 court decision.  This was initially delayed for procedural  
reasons but was unsuccessful when it was finally heard  in October 2015, amongst 
other things,  because the court found  Mr Ks application had no real prospects of 
success on its merits. So, in hindsight as well, CHLs decision to go ahead and 
appoint the Receivers  is reasonable.
3.CHL hasnt directly responded to the question  of whether  it took out 
mortgage indemnity insurance and this service hasnt asked CHL directly 
about that. This service has simply  said theres no evidence of insurance 
cover.
Very broadly, MIG is an insurance policy that protects a lender if a borrower  isnt 
able to repay their mortgage in full. Subject to the terms of the insurance policy,  the 
lender is able to recover from the insurer some or all of any shortfall  that might exist 
on the amount  the borrower owes under the mortgage after the property has been 
sold. If the insurer pays out under the policy, it can then pursue the borrower  for the 
shortfall, usually in the lenders name.
Theres no evidence, as Ive said, that CHL took out MIG in respect of Mr Ks 
mortgage. Mr K asked CHL in April 2018, as part of a DSAR, whether it had any 
Ref: DRN791572921MIG in relation to his account. CHL said MIG hadnt been referred to in Mr Ks 
mortgage offer in 2007 or the additional borrowing offer in 2008, and that it had no 
record of him applying for MIG.   
I appreciate this point  is of importance  to Mr K. But even if there was evidence  CHL 
had the benefit of MIG in relation to Mr Ks mortgage, it wouldnt affect my 
conclusions about  how CHL treated Mr K. For the reasons Ive explained, I think 
CHL treated Mr K fairly and reasonably. It gave Mr K time to explore his options  to 
repay the mortgage, considered his proposals and appointed Receivers initially  and 
later exercised its Power of Sale as a last resort as Id expect. 
4.The principles of fairness dictated by the Consumer Credit Act 2006 apply 
and are exemplified by the Financial Conduct  Authoritys statement to Mr K 
that firms should tell their  customers about any situation  that is likely to 
affect the terms  of their mortgage  or future borrowing. CHL didnt  tell Mr K it 
had been stopped from lending and hasnt provided evidence  its website  
showed this. 
I provisionally decided  that even if CHL hadnt  displayed information on its website, I 
wasnt persuaded that the outcome of Mr Ks complaint would be substantially 
different. This was because I wasnt persuaded, and Mr K hadnt provided  any 
evidence, that even if hed tried to move his mortgage, hed have been  able to find a 
loan with an alternative lender given the downturn in property values and the 
shrinking of the buy to let market.
I said I couldnt reasonably find Mr K suffered  any loss as a result  of not knowing 
about CHLs  intention to leave the market  sooner  than he did. Mr K hasnt 
provided any new evidence about that, and I am not persuaded on the evidence I 
have seen to change my mind about this issue. 
In addition, I can rely on the submissions of the parties as evidence. In this 
instance, I accept  that CHL provided the information on its website. CHL have 
appeared credible  in their communications to this service during the course of the 
complaint and I accept  that with the passage of time some information wont be 
available from the parties.  I have  no reason  to doubt the business in this instance. 
5.Despite what CHL has said, the evidence  shows it was connected to the 
brokers who sold the mortgage  and on the limited panel of lenders  the broker 
could recommend. 
I acknowledge theres evidence that the sellers of Mr Ks mortgage had a limited 
number of lenders,  on a panel of lenders that included CHL, that it could 
recommend to its customers.
I provisionally decided  there was no evidence of a connection between  the broker 
and CHL beyond CHL being on that panel.  Mr K hasnt provided any new evidence  
to challenge that finding. More importantly, I havent  seen  any new evidence that 
leads me to change  my mind that theres  no evidence of any wrongdoing by CHL 
here as a result of that limited connection, or otherwise. Just because CHL was on 
the panel doesnt mean theres  been any wrongdoing.
6.Although buy to let mortgages  arent covered by the FCA, the FCA said if a 
Ref: DRN791572922firms financial situation was likely  to affect  the terms of the mortgage or any 
future borrowing, information about that should have been  provided. The 
Consumer Credit Act 2006 and the Office of Fair Trading Rules also apply  and 
reinforce that CHL behaved unfairly in light  of the financial crash, 
manipulating things  to its advantage and to Mr Ks disadvantage  as a 
vulnerable party who was trying to resolve  things to the satisfaction of both  
him and CHL. 
Mr K makes  a very broad statement here which covers several of the complaint 
points I addressed in detail  in my provisional decision, Ive considered  the extracts 
from the Office of Fair Trading guidance Mr Ks sent.  But he hasnt provided any 
new arguments or evidence about  how he says CHL acted unfairly or to show CHL 
has manipulated things to its advantage  as he alleges. So, nothing Mr K says here 
is new information that leads me to change my mind about the conclusions I 
reached based, as Ive explained, on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances taking  into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  legislation and best 
practice and the parties respective arguments  and evidence. 
I appreciate that Mr K may simply disagree  with my conclusion, but these points 
have already been answered in detail.  
7.The CHL mortgage  conditions relate to single let properties, not multi-let 
properties. The tenancy agreements  were  all assured shorthold  tenancy 
agreements. There was no letting  to tenants  on housing  benefits.  The 
recommendations CHL gave to landlords  were against  their lending rules  and 
CHL didnt give advice about what to do legally  if a tenants circumstances 
changed.
I set out in detail  in my provisional decision why I considered the mortgage contract  
was valid and enforceable, and related to Mr Ks multi-let. I havent  seen  anything  to 
change my mind about that. If the mortgage  conditions had related to single let 
properties as Mr K argues, its likely he would have been in breach of those 
mortgage conditions  by letting the property out on a multi-occupancy  basis.  
Mr K hasnt provided copies of the assured shorthold tenancy agreements  but 
confirms all the tenancy agreements were assured shorthold tenancies and none 
was let to a tenant on housing benefits  which is in line with the terms of the 
mortgage and supports  the argument that the mortgage covered his multi-let  
property.
Mr K hasnt provided any evidence CHL was in breach of its lending  rules in giving 
recommendations to its customers, or that it was under  an obligation to give its 
customers legal advice.  Neither of these issues is relevant to the validity  or 
enforceability of the mortgage contract, because they relate to CHLs wider  
practices, not the terms of Mr Ks individual mortgage contract. They arent relevant 
either to whether CHL treated Mr K fairly  in the individual circumstances of his 
complaint which  is what  I must  think about.
Nothing Mr K says here persuades me to change  my mind about the issues  in his 
complaint.
8.CHL extended the mortgage for a period longer than the initial six months it 
Ref: DRN791572923granted Mr K. CHL did this unilaterally and unfairly for conveyancing 
purposes to allow  it to state  in the auction sales  particulars   incorrectly - 
mortgagee not in possession.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  CHLs explanation  as to why 
the mortgage term was extended was entirely reasonable. It extended the 
mortgage for purely administrative reasons  to allow it to continue to manage  the 
mortgage after the end of the term had been  reached when Mr K didnt  repay it. It 
enabled CHL to continue  to manage  the mortgage  after the term had ended. The 
extension didnt adversely affect Mr K. In fact, it was to his benefit as it gave him 
and CHL time to discuss his options for repaying the mortgage even though it 
wasnt possible to come to an agreement about that. In the circumstances I think  it 
was fair and reasonable for CHL to extend  the term. 
Theres no evidence anything in the auction particulars affected the sale achieved, 
as I mentioned in my provisional decision.
Nothing Mr K has now said persuades me to change  my mind about  these  issues.
9.Mr K doesnt understand the reference to arrears as he made mortgage 
payments up to August  2015 when the Receiver took possession to collect 
the rent and maintain the property.
I explained in my provisional decision  that Mr K was obliged  to make his monthly  
mortgage payments,  notwithstanding the Receivers appointment, until the 
mortgage was redeemed. 
I noted that arrears  had been recorded  at around  £6,000 and, if this was right,  it 
was correct to note the arrears as the reason why the Power  of Sale had arisen.
And I said, even if that had been incorrect, this didnt  mean  CHL couldnt go ahead  
with selling the property. The Power of Sale had arisen because of breaches  of the 
mortgage contract  including the failure to pay it back at the end of the term - 
which I clarify now could  be categorised as arrears in any event - and CHL was 
entitled to exercise  it.
10.The tenancies  were all Assured Shorthold tenancies which CHL never asked 
to see. The informal  licence,  which Mr K disclosed,  did not impact  CHL.  It was 
a simple agreement  allowing the licensee some limited storage  in the 
basement for their business  and didnt  bind  CHL or affect their legal security. 
He questions why I referred to this since CHL said the reason for exercising  
its Power of Sale were  arrears. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that although CHL gave arrears as the 
reason for exercising  the Power  of Sale,  there were other potential  breaches of the 
mortgage condition,  including the poor condition of the property and the fact part of 
the building  was let on a licence, which CHL could have mentioned. 
I note what Mr K says about the tenancy agreement  and licence. But since  the 
Power of Sale arose because the mortgage  wasnt repaid at the end of the term, I 
dont think it affects the overall position or the outcome of his complaint.
Ref: DRN79157292411.The 2012 report from CHLs own field manager said the property was 
externally in good condition and being maintained. It recommended  that CHL 
continue working with the owner as this type of property would  be 
unmanageable by a receiver. This is evidence CHL were  planning 
repossession at the time. This expedited  improvement works, and later 
surveyors used  the fact that disruptive works were going on as a reason to 
devalue the property  without  projecting what the value would be once the 
works had been completed. The June 2015 report hasnt  been disclosed.
I dont agree the fact the 2012 report was commissioned is evidence CHL was 
planning repossession  at the time and Mr K hasnt provided any evidence to 
support that allegation. 
Theres no evidence either that later surveyors undervalued the property  because  
of ongoing works. There is mention in the 2013  report, for example, of the property 
being in particularly poor condition, penetrating damp that might have affected  the 
timbers and the need for full rehabilitation throughout, which  are unrelated  to 
ongoing works, affecting the value of the property. 
The reported  contents of the 2015  report about the condition of the property and 
valuation the surveyor came to then arent  out of line with the other  reports  and 
valuations that are available. And Mr Ks explained he found it difficult to get 
funding himself to carry out works and that works  were needed to put the property 
into a suitable  condition before the Buyers lenders would advance funds. 
Mr K hasnt provided any new evidence or arguments that persuade  me to change 
my view about the condition and valuations  of the property. 
12.The drop  in price at auction from an initial  price of £220,000 - £240,000 to 
£100,000 was significant and known to be a trick used at auction sales.
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that the drop in the auction price  from 
the initial valuation  was significant.  Mr K hasnt made any new arguments as to why 
this was an unreasonable or unfair thing to do, and he hasnt provided any 
evidence to support  his assertion this was an auction trick.
I explained in my provisional decision  why, based on the evidence,  I thought  the 
auction pricing was reasonable.
I see no reason to change  my conclusions on this issue.
13.The provisional decision  makes  little mention  of the fact contracts had been 
exchanged, a substantial payment had been  made, the Buyers clearly 
wanted to complete in a timely  manner, CHL gave them implied consent for 
the work to finish and for the sale to complete. But that also limited things as 
CHL refused to be flexible about completion,  which created uncertainty  and 
led to work stopping.
I considered the facts  relating to the Buyers situation against the following 
headings in my provisional decision.  
CHL didnt give Mr K enough time to sell the property to the buyers  he had 
Ref: DRN791572925exchanged contracts  with or give those buyers  time to complete the works that 
were needed  so they could access funds from their lender
CHL didnt engage with prospective  purchasers  itself
Amongst other things, in summary: 
I acknowledged contracts had been exchanged.  But there was no completion  date. 
There was uncertainty  about whether the Buyers lenders would advance monies, 
when this would happen and when  CHL would get paid, as this seemed to depend  
on whether and when works were completed.
The Buyers  had paid a deposit, but this was understood to have been used to fund 
some works, so there  was a reasonable concern about whether it would be 
possible to pay off the mortgage  even  if the monies  were advanced by the Buyers 
lenders.
I didnt think CHL was unreasonable in not engaging directly with the Buyers  as this 
was Mr Ks responsibility.
Mr K hasnt provided any new evidence on these or the other  issues I mentioned  in 
my provisional decision, so I see no reason  to change  my mind  about them.
14.CHL should answer  directly whether MIG was in place including  whether  it 
had a block policy.
I addressed this at point  3 above and make no further comment.
In conclusion, whilst I understand how disappointing  my decision will be for Mr K, having 
carefully considered  his response and the information he provided  to my provisional 
decision, and for all the reasons given,  I find the business did not act unfairly or 
unreasonably in this instance. 
At its core, Mr Ks complaint is straight  forward. He borrowed a sum of money from CHL 
that was due to be paid back. CHL allowed Mr K time to make arrangements to do so but, 
ultimately, CHL was entitled to sell the property and recover its lending. 
Even if CHL had given  Mr K more time to work with his Buyers towards completion of the 
works, theres no guarantee hed have  been  in a better position. The evidence suggests 
the deposit paid by the Buyers had been  used towards the works, so there  was already a 
shortfall. The contract with the Buyers had no completion date. And the availability  of funds 
from the Buyers lenders  was uncertain, depending as it did on the Property  being  revalued 
once the works had been completed  there  was no guarantee the valuation would be 
favourable. 
The arguments Mr Ks raised  about  the terms of the mortgage, the injunction,  CHLs 
business practices etc. do not persuade me CHL treated Mr K unfairly. Bearing everything  
in mind, I am not persuaded to change my mind and I dont uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN791572926Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2021.  
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7915729