K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that her mortgage is trapped on an unfairly high interest rate with NRAM 
Limited. Mrs P says shed  like access to competitive interest rate products, like mortgage  
customers of other lenders.
Mrs P has brought the complaint alone although  the mortgage is in joint names  with her ex-
partner.
 
background
In 2007 Mrs P remortgaged with Northern Rock  for around £187,000 plus fees.  Mrs P, and 
her then partner Mr P, had applied  for the mortgage  through a broker. The mortgage  was on 
an interest only basis and was on a fixed rate of 6.85% until 1 April 2009. Mr and Mrs P also 
took out an unsecured Together Loan for around  £30,000 which was on the same  interest  
rate as the mortgage.
In 2008 Northern Rock was nationalised  and the mortgage and loan were transferred to 
NRAM. Mrs P says she separated from Mr P in 2011/12 and shes been paying the 
mortgage on her own since that time. Mr P has also been declared bankrupt  at some  point  
since taking out the mortgage.
Mrs P says shes  struggled to make  the mortgage  payments since  the breakdown of her 
relationship. Shes been in financial difficulties for some time,  the mortgage  is in arrears and 
shes in a debt payment  plan.
Mrs Ps unhappy with the amount of interest shes paying on her mortgage.  She feels this is 
unfairly high and its making her struggle to make ends meet even more difficult. Mrs P 
complained to NRAM but it didnt uphold her complaint.  Mrs P brought  the matter  to us and 
our investigator looked into the interest rate she was paying. He didnt think  NRAM had 
acted unfairly in applying its standard variable  rate (SVR) to Mrs Ps mortgage  and he didnt 
think the complaint  should succeed.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint again. Mrs P replied 
to say, in summary:
-she took out her mortgage with Northern Rock.  If shed known that Northern Rock 
would be nationalised, and that this would be to her financial  disadvantage, shed 
never have taken the mortgage out with it in the first place;
-she just wants to be treated like any other customer of a bank who offers fixed rates 
to existing customers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry to hear that Mrs P is struggling financially. Her situation  has clearly  changed  
considerably since  taking out this mortgage  and I dont doubt that things have been very 
difficult for her. 
I imagine that that Mrs P will have already had advice and support from a debt counsellor 
before entering  into her debt management plan.  Its really important that Mrs P continues  to 
Ref: DRN76526682get advice to help her to manage her borrowing and to make  sure shes getting access to all 
the help shes  entitled to.
is it fair that NRAM isnt offering any new interest rate products? 
Mrs Ps unhappy that shes trapped with NRAM- and as a result shes  stuck on NRAMs 
interest rate which she thinks is unfairly  high. She wants NRAM to offer more competitive 
rates of interest to her as one of its existing customers, like other  banks do. 
Typically if Mrs P was unhappy  with the rate of the SVR shed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with this lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there isnt an early 
repayment charge  anymore that would prevent her moving this mortgage.  The last fixed rate 
product (with an ERC) that applied to this mortgage expired on 1 April 2009. But Mrs Ps 
unable to move her mortgage  because shes in arrears on the mortgage and unsecured  
loan. Her situation  has also changed a great deal since separating  from Mr P. I assume that 
her sole income will now be lower  than it was when she and Mr P took out this mortgage on 
a joint basis in 2007. There are clearly  practical barriers that would prevent Mrs P from being 
able to move  her mortgage to another lender. 
Because Mrs P cant go elsewhere, shes complained that NRAM isnt making  new interest 
rate products available to its customers. NRAMs told Mrs P that its not an active lender and 
it isnt offering any new interest rates or further  lending to any of its customers. NRAMs 
explained to us, in considerably more detail than it gave  to Mrs P, further  reasons  for this. 
There are competition laws which  prevent  a government-owned lender being in direct  
competition with other banks. For this reason it says it cant  offer new rates.  And, to that 
extent, its not treating  Mrs P any differently to any of its other customers. 
Its common for borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly 
before its expiry, take another  rate rather than revert to their lenders  SVR.  Sometimes they 
may take out a new product with their existing  lender, or sometimes  its with another  lender. 
Ive looked carefully  at Mrs Ps mortgage agreement.  Theres  nothing in Mrs Ps mortgage 
agreement that says shes entitled  to a new rate  and thats also true of most other  lenders 
mortgage agreements  too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that requires NRAM 
to offer new interest  rates.  
Through no fault of her own,  Mrs P has ended up with a closed book  lender,  owned by the 
government, that doesnt  offer new rates. NRAM is her lender, and legitimately  so. Its 
unable to offer new interest rates to any customers,  including Mrs P. 
Mrs Ps said shed never have taken  out a Northern  Rock mortgage if shed known what  
would happen  and that it would later be nationalised. I can understand why, with the benefit 
of hindsight, Mrs P may feel this way although I dont think  thats something any party  could 
have foreseen  when  the mortgage contract was entered into. While  I appreciate  Mrs Ps 
frustration, I dont uphold  this part of his complaint.
is the mortgage interest being charged to Mrs Ps mortgage unfairly  high?  
Ive looked at the rate of interest that has been applied to Mrs Ps mortgage  since  it was 
taken out.  
Ref: DRN76526683Mrs P took out the borrowing in 2007  on a 1.5 year fixed rate of 6.85% until 1 April 2009. 
Since April 2009  Mrs P has been  on NRAMs Guaranteed Rate  (GR).  Northern Rock  
described the GR in the mortgage  offer as being  a variable rate guaranteed  to be below  
Northern Rocks SVR for remainder of the term. From the information provided  to me it 
appears that the GR has tracked NRAMs SVR at a discount of 0.01%. Mrs Ps mortgage  
has been on an interest rate of around  4.50% to 5.00% over the period complained about. 
Mrs Ps said that NRAMs SVR is unfairly high. She may consider the level is unfair because 
prevailing interest rates, such as the Bank  of England base rate, have been at record  lows 
since the credit crisis  that happened around  the time of the collapse of Northern Rock. 
It is true that the margin, of differential, between  Bank of England  base rate and NRAMs 
SVR has not remained  the same. In particular,  as Bank of England  base rates fell to record 
low levels, NRAMs  SVR didnt fall at the same rate. Ive looked at the mortgage 
documentation to see whether Northern  Rock or NRAM ever said that it would. 
There arent any guarantees  or references in the mortgage documentation that say the SVR 
or GR will track Bank  of England base  rate. In Clause  7.1 of Northern  Rocks  General 
Conditions (2005), it says NRAM  can reduce  the SVR at any time. But it doesnt make  a 
commitment to do so if prevailing interest  rates fall or that the SVR must  track 
Bank of England  base rate. Clause 7.2 lists a number of reasons why the lender may choose 
to increase SVR.  The reasons given include a general trend to increase interest rates  on 
mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours,  for good  commercial reasons and to 
maintain a prudent level of profitability. But, again  there is no commitment to track 
Bank of England  base rates.
Ive also thought about the level of interest thats been applied  to Mrs Ps mortgage. As Ive 
said above, Mrs P has been  charged  interest  at around 4.5% to 5.0% since  her last fixed  
rate expired  in 2009. Overall I dont think this interest rate is out of line, or unreasonably  
higher, than other lenders SVRs over the same period  of time. 
I appreciate that there are practical barriers that prevent Mrs P from being able to move her 
mortgage elsewhere, but I dont think these events that could have been foreseen  when the 
contract was entered into by either the lender or Mrs P. Overall, I dont think NRAM has 
acted unfairly in the level of its SVR or the interest  it has applied  to Mrs Ps mortgage.
I note that NRAM is not currently charging any interest on Mrs Ps unsecured  loan and that 
this has been  the case for a number of years now. Mrs P is also only paying £1 per month 
towards this loan. This freezing of interest has been offered by NRAM as a forbearance 
measure, to help Mrs P in her financial difficulty.  
Id encourage  Mrs P to continue to engage with NRAM about  her situation. Its important that 
they work  together to try to find an affordable way for Mrs P to meet her mortgage payments. 
I dont need to remind NRAM that it should continue to treat Mrs P positively and 
sympathetically in her financial difficulty.  If Mrs P were to become concerned that NRAM was 
treating her unfairly and not helping her, shes able to make  a separate  complaint about that. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I havent  considered the support given to Mrs P in her financial 
difficulty as part of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN76526684Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7652668