K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) declined  her application for
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) and hasnt given her a reasonable  explanation for its decision.
background
Miss L applied to CCF, in store  to buy a fridge, for a BNPL  agreement.  Her application  was 
declined.
When Miss L asked for information to help her understand  why CCF had taken that decision 
she wasnt satisfied with CCFs response  as it didnt give her a specific  reason.
Miss L referred her complaint to us. Our investigator  said CCF was entitled to keep 
commercially sensitive  information about its lending  criteria private. But that Miss Ls 
application had been declined on information that wasnt correct.  He said Miss L should have 
been told this, as the declined application  had caused her some considerable upset, and she 
was now worried about any future  applications  she might  make.  He said CCF should pay 
£150 for the trouble and upset Miss L had experienced.
CCF didnt agree as it said it had followed its processes correctly and had given Miss L 
sufficient information  about why her application had been declined. CCF has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
Miss L reiterated her complaint that she hadnt  been  given a reason for her application being  
declined. And she wanted  the search  removed  from her credit file.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  which said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how frustrating this situation  must  be for Miss L and I understand why she wants a 
better understanding of CCFs lending decision  she has a good credit score  and receives a 
regular income. I know this will be disappointing for Miss L but my current  thinking is that Im 
not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt the role of our service to insist  that credit  should  be provided when an application  is 
made. As ultimately the decision  to bear the risk of the lending  has to sit with the lender.  And 
a business must undertake a reasonable assessment of the credit worthiness of a customer  
before entering  into a regulated credit  agreement, as was the case  here with Miss Ls BNPL 
application.
Banks and other financial institutions have a legitimate interest in making sure theyre able to 
properly identify whos applying  to them for credit. And they have developed systems to try 
to identify fraudulent  activity. But those systems  sometimes  also identify legitimate 
applications as potentially fraudulent.
Miss Ls application for credit was legitimate and it will have been embarrassing and 
frustrating for her to have  had her application  for credit declined.  But its a commercial  
decision for a lender  as to whether or not it lends money to a customer   and theres no 
requirement for it to explain the specific reason for its decision to the customer.
Ref: DRN74227512But it should  give the applicant an indication as to the reason why.
When Miss L asked CCF the reason why her application was declined  it said its final score  
was below our acceptance  level.  But this didnt set Miss Ls mind at rest as she was baffled 
as to why this would be given her credit history.
But CCFs did go on to say:
There are many reasons why applications are declined such  as; no/different 
information on the voters roll, adverse bureau  information on credit  files, employment 
status, low income etc.
Although CCF didnt  give a specific reason  it did try to explain  the reasons behind  her 
decline. And CCF wouldnt have  told Miss L the exact reason for the decline. As, potentially  
if the reason was known, changes could be made by an applicant.  This is for safeguarding 
purposes, as outlined  above as not all applications  are legitimate.
I can understand why Miss L has been left feeling  so frustrated by the process.  Our 
investigator when  dealing with CCF did find out that the information entered on Miss Ls 
application wasnt correct.  And so when CCF did its credit worthiness check the information 
input didnt correlate,  so its system generated an automated decline.
CCF has said its process is for the retailer to double check  the information is correct  with the 
applicant. I cant know what happened on that day so I cant  hold CCF responsible  for 
making its assessment  on the information  that was entered. But the decline was most likely 
the result  of the retailer recording  Miss Ls details incorrectly.
Miss L wanted a more  detailed explanation  as she posed little risk and believes she should 
have received the credit. But as Ive said above,  its the business in these situations that 
bears the risk. And the decision  should sit with them to make  this. I havent seen anything  
which has indicated that CCF hasnt done this fairly or not in line with its process.
CCF has also agreed to remove the record of the search made when Miss L applied for the 
credit from her credit file. So I wont be asking it do anything more in this case.
I hope by now knowing what  went wrong on the day will give Miss L some  piece  of mind 
should she make any further  applications for credit. But as I dont think CCF acted unfairly I 
dont think it is fair or reasonable for me to ask CCF to pay any compensation to Miss L.
responses to my provisional  decision
CCF agreed with the provisional decision and confirmed it had requested the amendment  to 
be made to Miss Ls credit file.
Miss L didnt  agree  with the provisional  decision and said 
it wasnt acceptable for a person with an exemplary credit record to be turned  down  
for credit without being told the reason why  especially when it was a clerical  error;
CCF should accept when its made a mistake and right that mistake  by explaining 
why the credit was refused; and  
Ref: DRN74227513didnt accept that CCF had given her an indication of why she had been refused 
credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded to 
change my decision, Ill explain why.
I can understand why Miss L is frustrated by what has happened. Its clear Miss Ls date of 
birth was input incorrectly. And the relevant guidance does say that CCF will be responsible  
for the acts and omissions of its appointed  representatives. 
But as I outlined in my provisional decision  CCFs  process is for any information to be double  
checked with the applicant at the time. I cant know for sure what  happened on the day, and I 
cant know if CCFs process was followed by its representative or not. So, I dont  think it was 
unfair for CCF to base its decision on the belief its process had been followed and that the 
information had been correctly given  and confirmed by Miss L.
I know Miss L feels she should have had a fuller explanation as to why shed been refused. 
And I think this explanation would have prevented the need for Miss L to bring a complaint. 
But its a commercial decision  for a lender as to whether or not it lends money  to a customer  
 and theres no requirement  for it to explain  the specific  reason for its decision to the 
customer. But it should give the applicant  an indication as to the reason why.
Miss L doesnt think CCF has given  this indication, but as I said in my provisional decision 
CCF explained her score was below its acceptance  level, and went  on to explain some 
reasons why this would be. So I think this does give Miss L an indication of its reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7422751