K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  for their 
mortgage. Aviva Insurance Limited,  as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to Aviva  in this decision, rather  than any other  trading name 
or representative. 
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1999. Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their mortgage 
payments in case of an accident, sickness, or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs F, Ive decided that this PPI policy  was not mis-
sold  Ill explain why that is.
Mr and Mrs F said they were told they had to take out PPI, whereas Aviva said it wouldnt 
have told them that. I wasnt at the sale, but Ive looked at the evidence  I have and thought 
carefully about whats most likely  to have happened.
The mortgage application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained  what  it was for and said it 
was something the lender recommended  this was only a recommendation, and not a 
requirement. Then it asked if Mr and Mrs F would like PPI, with two tick boxes to choose 
from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Both options were equally prominent. It looks  
like, initially, Mr and Mrs F chose  to take PPI with the lender. But then that was crossed out, 
and instead it was written  below  that they were arranging PPI with Avivas representative. 
Mr and Mrs F signed the mortgage application and submitted it with what had been filled out.
Mr and Mrs F pointed  out that their adviser had filled in parts  of the mortgage  application,  
such as the section for PPI. But thats  quite  normal  they wouldve filled in the application  
together with their adviser, after discussing what was on it. So its most  likely that they 
discussed PPI, too. And ultimately, Mr and Mrs F signed the application  and submitted it  
and Im afraid it was their responsibility  to read what they were signing and putting forward.
After that, Mr and Mrs F wouldve needed to submit a separate  application to Aviva,  
specifically for PPI, separately  to their application for the mortgage itself.  Aviva doesnt still 
have a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs form, but I think thats understandable given that their policy  
closed over 11 years ago, and that data protection regulations require Aviva  to not hold onto 
data for too long.
Ref: DRN75279452I should point  out that Aviva was a completely  different company to Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage 
lender, and didnt  have  any influence  on whether  they got accepted  for their mortgage or not. 
It wouldve  been a very serious failing for Aviva to have misled  Mr and Mrs F into thinking 
that its policy was compulsory, and Ive got no evidence which shows thats what it did. 
Indeed, I think  the paperwork indicates that PPI was just an optional extra.  And I havent 
seen any wider problems  with Avivas sales process  from the time. Overall,  I think its most 
likely that Mr and Mrs F were given a choice about  whether they wanted  PPI, and they chose 
to take it at the time  even if, understandably, they dont remember doing  so after so long. 
Aviva recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it had to check  it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, they 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the key exclusions or limitations that PPI had. And 
while they had some savings and sick pay, those wouldve been needed to cover  all their 
living costs  and so wouldve  usually only lasted for a quite limited time. Whereas the PPI had 
a three  month waiting  period while Mr and Mrs F used their sick pay and savings, and then it 
covered their payments for up to 12 months  in any one claim  after that. This meant they 
were more comprehensively protected in case things went wrong.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs Fs family  wouldve been more than willing  to help out, but 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed.  And this policy meant 
that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt  have to ask their family  to make  their mortgage payments. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that Mr and Mrs F were solely responsible  for the mortgage,  and if 
they fell behind on their payments they risked losing their home.  So I dont think it wouldve 
been suitable for the adviser to have told them to rely on their family to keep up their 
payments for them. Instead, I think the PPI policy couldve really  been useful for Mr and 
Mrs F in protecting their home  and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Aviva  gave Mr and Mrs F about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs F chose PPI, first with their lender and 
then Aviva instead, which implies they wanted  this type of cover.  And as I explained above, 
they werent affected by any of the main things the PPI didnt cover,  and it couldve really  
been useful for them  in case they fell on difficult times. It also looks  like the PPI wouldve 
been affordable  for them. So overall, I dont  think that better information was likely to have 
put Mr and Mrs F off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7527945