K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs S took PPI with a charge  card in 1993.  The PPI was sold to Mrs S by another  firm but 
Allianz has accepted  responsibility for this complaint  about the mis-sale of PPI. So I will refer to 
the seller as Allianz to make things easier.  The PPI was sold to Mrs S to cover Mr S only
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs S complaint should  be upheld but Mrs S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about 
the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the application form and to get the cover Mrs S had to tick a box for it. Had she not 
wanted the cover she could have left this unticked.  And Mrs S chose to nominate  Mr S for 
the cover. And Mrs S has signed the application form to show she agreed  with its contents. 
So, on balance I think that Mrs S chose to take the policy and did so knowing she had a 
choice about it, even if she cant remember that now, many years later. 
Both parties  told us the sale was made with no advice given to Mrs S. So, as Allianz didnt 
recommend that Mrs S take the PPI, it didnt have  to check  if it was right for Mr S. Instead 
Allianz had to provide information  that was clear and not misleading  so that Mrs S could  
decide about the policy for herself.  
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been - including the information about  the cost of the policy.  But based on what I know 
about Mr S circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped Mrs S from 
buying it.
I say this because  Mrs S selected the cover for Mr S and she wasnt working at the time of 
the sale. But Mr S was eligible for the policy, and whilst there  were  some things the policy 
wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though  any of those things applied to Mr S at the time the 
PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical  conditions.  
And I think Mr and Mrs S could have found  the policy useful. I say this because  whilst Mrs S 
told us Mr S had some  sick pay, she couldnt  recall how long it would have lasted. But this 
policy could have paid 15% of the balance until the claim  stopped  or the balance  was repaid, 
whichever occurred first. And this would have been  in addition to any sick pay Mr S may 
have been entitled to. And the PPI would also have provided cover if Mr S lost his job. So 
having considered their circumstances at the time of the sale, I think the policy could have 
been useful to them. 
So I dont  think that Mrs S lost out as a result  of anything Allianz might have done  wrong.  
Ref: DRN73315132my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about  Allianz  Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7331513