K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the length of time Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc took to settle a 
claim he made under his contents insurance policy. When I refer to RSA, I include its agents.  
background 
In July 2018, Mr B contacted RSA to make a claim for a damaged wardrobe and carpet as a 
result of an escape of water. 
Mr B provided RSA with an invoice  for a replacement wardrobe. The invoice was itemised 
showing the different  components of the wardrobe from the supplier. And in August  2018, 
RSA responded  to say it would only cover the costs of the damaged components,  meaning 
the claim value was less than the policy excess. It also said it had split Mr Bs claim into two 
separate claims. It did however  later confirm only one claim and policy excess would apply. 
RSA considered the damage caused to the carpet. Mr B said RSA couldnt provide him with 
samples that would  match  the existing undamaged carpet in the bedroom.  So Mr B arranged 
for his own contractor to replace both the carpet and underlay which  he said was because of 
delays. Mr B also raised a formal  complaint  with RSA. 
Mr B said the time between him raising  a complaint and RSA issuing its final response was 
more than eight  weeks, and he had to chase  for updates during that time. RSA issued its 
final response on 23 October 2018.  
RSA agreed its decision  to only pay for the damaged components  of the wardrobe was 
unfair. It also accepted  to reimburse the costs Mr B paid to replace the carpet and underlay.  
RSA paid a total of £570 which included the policy excess deduction. 
RSA agreed it had caused  unnecessary  delays  and offered him £100  for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Mr B rejected RSAs  offer. He said the delay to the claim  meant he couldnt use the bedroom 
and had to sleep in his living room.  Mr B also said the level of service he received 
throughout his claim was inadequate. In order to resolve his complaint, Mr B wanted  RSA to 
waive his policy excess, and increase the compensation. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. She agreed RSA caused delays in settling  the 
claim, which resulted  in Mr B experiencing trouble and upset. She contacted  RSA and 
recommended it should  pay Mr B a further  £100  compensation,  which  it accepted. 
RSA accepted our investigators view. Mr B didnt agree and maintains RSA should 
compensate him further. As Mr B disagrees  the complaints been  referred  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
our investigators findings and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will disappoint 
Mr B so I will now explain why. 
RSA has accepted it didnt handle Mr Bs claim particularly  well. And agreed  with our 
investigators view that it should  increase the level of compensation offered to better reflect 
Ref: DRN74649682the trouble and upset caused. I agree Mr B experienced delays when  RSA was considering 
only paying for damaged components and not the wardrobe  in its entirety. Its accepted  this 
was an unfair consideration which caused  delays. 
I also note the carpet and underlay was replaced  by Mr B as a result  of RSA failing  to 
provide him with samples to determine whether the new replacement  would match  the older 
undamaged section of his carpet.  Mr B argues  he got the carpet and underlay replaced 
cheaper and so this should be taken into account  and considers RSA should waive  the 
excess. But I disagree, like in all insurance  policies an excess  is payable  for accepted claims 
under the terms  and conditions.  
From the timeline Ive seen I agree the claim couldve  been  handled  more  quickly,  
particularly at the outset. Im also mindful there was some delay in RSA responding to Mr Bs 
concerns about  its decision  to only replace components of the wardrobe, and handling the 
carpet replacement. 
Ive looked at the photographs provided  by Mr B that he considers shows his bedroom was 
uninhabitable. The photographs do indicate  that Mr B experienced a level of upheaval and 
inconvenience, which continued for longer than it should have. But, based  on the evidence 
Ive seen I dont  think it would be fair for me to comment  on whether I think  the room  is 
habitable or not.
I do understand Mr B is frustrated with the time taken to settle  his claim. But in the 
circumstances of this case Im not persuaded that I could reasonably require it to 
compensate him further. I think a total of £200  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
here and takes  into account the trouble and upset  RSA caused Mr B by delaying  his claim. 
So it should  pay Mr B the additional £100 if it hasnt done so already.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Mr B a total of 
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  by 29 May 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7464968