K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with ReAssure Limiteds  actions in relation to his pension. He says hes 
received poor service  and suffered a financial loss. 
background
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties,  so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here. 
In 1997 Mr S took out a Personal Pension Plan (PPP). At the time the plan was administered 
by another business Ill refer to as H. 
In 2014 ReAssure took over Hs pension business.  At this time his pension  was invested in a 
Money Market Fund (20%) and Fixed Interest  Fund  (80%). 
In April 2014, Mr S informed ReAssure that his intention was to take his PPP as a whole or 
in part in line with the legislation changes that were due to come into force  in 2015. He also 
told ReAssure that he wanted to be sure his PPP wasnt  placed at any risk. He repeated  this 
request several  times over the following years. 
In December 2016 the fund amended  the percentages  placing  25% in the Money Market 
Fund and leaving  75% in the Fixed Interest  Fund.  
In November 2017 Mr S made the first of a number  of complaints to ReAssure. He was 
unhappy that the value  of his fund had gone down against his requests  that his PPP wasnt 
at any risk. He was also unhappy  with various aspects of the service hed received and with 
ReAssures ability to provide him with information  hed requested.  
ReAssure responded to Mr Ss complaints. They agreed that on one occasion theyd failed 
to return a phone call within their agreed timescales  and they later offered £50 compensation 
for any inconvenience caused.  But they didnt agree they were  at fault for anything else and 
didnt uphold  the complaints. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mr S referred  his complaints to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt  think  ReAssure needed  to do more.  As he still disagrees, Mr S has asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint or 
asking ReAssure to take any action. I know this is likely to be disappointing  for Mr S, so Id 
like to explain why. 
Mr S wrote to ReAssure on a number  of occasions. This included letters from April 2014, 
May 2015, and May 2017. In each of these letters Mr S used words  to the effect of would 
you ensure that my present  pension is not subject  to any risk that would lead to it being 
reduced in value.
Ref: DRN71480872Mr Ss PPP is a unit linked policy. This means  its performance is subject to fluctuations in 
the financial markets  and that there is a risk the funds can go down as well as up. This also 
explains why the value of his policy fell between May and October 2017. ReAssure arent 
responsible for these  changes and I dont think any reduction in value is as a result of their 
actions. 
Ive looked at ReAssures responses to Mr Ss letters. Im satisfied that these made clear 
that Mr Ss funds were  subject to risk and they included a form to enable Mr S to switch  
funds if he wished.
Mr S also doesnt think ReAssure provided him with enough information to make  a decision. 
But I think the responses to his letters  in conjunction  with the yearly statements Mr S 
received made clear  his PPP was at risk of market fluctuations. Because  of this I think 
ReAssure gave sufficient  information to enable  Mr S to know that was the case. It was then 
up to him to make a choice if he wanted to move to a fund which he considered more 
consistent with his attitude  to risk. I also think it was made clear that further  information  was 
available on request. So I dont agree that ReAssure didnt provide enough information for 
Mr S to make a decision.  And I dont  think they failed in any duty of care towards Mr S as 
they arent able to offer advice as to what he should or shouldnt  do. 
As our investigator pointed out, had Mr S completed a switch  of fund form and submitted it, 
I have no reason to doubt that ReAssure  wouldve  acted on his instructions. But Ive not 
seen evidence that he completed and submitted a form to provide  instructions to switch 
funds. And I wouldnt expect ReAssure to make any changes without the right authority and 
instructions from Mr S.
I appreciate Mr S holds  ReAssure responsible  for a loss of value to his PPP after hed told 
them he didnt want it to be at risk. But for the reasons explained, I dont think ReAssure are 
at fault and I dont  think  they need  to compensate  Mr S for any loss. 
the service 
Mr S was also unhappy with ReAssure being unable to tell him specifically how much their 
services cost. ReAssure explained  that they took their Annual Management Charge (AMC) 
from each of the funds.  And that the AMC was a percentage of the funds that was taken on a 
daily basis. They say as this amount  will fluctuate daily, providing  a monetary amount isnt 
feasible. 
I can understand why Mr S wants to know the actual  cost in pounds  and pence, but having 
considered ReAssures response  to this point I dont  think their position is unreasonable. So 
whilst I understand this wont bring  any resolution  for Mr S, I dont think ReAssure are wrong 
for only providing their fee information  in this way. 
Mr S also complained about not being able to take 25% Tax Free Cash (TFC) whilst leaving 
the remainder within  his PPP. ReAssure explained  in the retirement packs  issued to Mr S 
that if he wanted to take 25% as a TFC the rest couldnt remain in the existing plan. It would 
need to be transferred into another product. 
I dont think ReAssure have any responsibility to highlight this term to Mr S before they did. 
The plan wouldve transferred over to ReAssure  with the same  terms as when it started, 
which was before their involvement. So any concerns Mr S has about this are better directed 
towards the business who sold him the PPP.
Ref: DRN71480873summary
ReAssure are the administrators of the plan. As such they dont give advice and they need  
specific instructions from Mr S if he wants to change  or amend his PPP.  I dont think 
ReAssure failed to provide  enough information  to enable Mr S to make  decisions in relation 
to his PPP. And I dont  think  the service they provided warrants an increase  in the £50 
compensation theyve  already offered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7148087