K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  sent him a damaged  phone  after he claimed on 
his mobile phone insurance.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and forms  part of this final decision.
In summary,  I thought  this complaint should be upheld. Mr K lost his phone  and made  a 
claim on his insurance to get a replacement. Amtrust accepted the claim and sent him a 
refurbished phone. Mr K says that when he received the phone  it was damaged.
Amtrust say it wouldnt have sent a phone in this condition and the phone would have been 
checked by quality control before  it was sent to Mr K. It cant  agree the phone was or could 
have been damaged when it was sent to Mr K.
I didnt think there was enough  information  for me to conclude  that Amtrust  hadnt sent a 
damaged phone to Mr K. I asked both parties  to get back to me with any additional  
information it would like me to consider. 
Amtrust requested that I get the internal phone information from Mr K to see if the IMEI 
number and serial  number match the phone  Amtrust  say it sent. Mr K provided this 
screenshot. Upon  receipt of this, I also asked  Mr K to send a video  of the phone.  Im now in 
receipt of this.
my findings
I have again, considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will be upholding this 
complaint. 
Mr K has been able to send me a video  of the phone, Im satisfied the phone  Amtrust says it 
sent to Mr K, is the one he has received, and that it is damaged.
Mr K has sent a picture of the handsets  internal IMEI number. After sending  this to Amtrust, 
it said that while it appears this phone has come  from their stock, the most recent picture 
Mr K sent of the phone  doesnt  show any damage. And I agree.  The most recent photo 
doesnt show damage, so I asked Mr K to send me a video of the phone.
The video Ive seen  shows the phone turned on with the internal IMEI number showing, this 
matches the IMEI number  Amtrust say it sent.  The video shows him locking the screen and 
showing the condition  of the phone. While I accept the damage in the video doesnt look as 
severe as the photos Mr K originally sent,  scratches to the front, back and camera are 
visible. I think the difference in this is likely to be due to the resolution of the various pictures 
taken by Mr K.
Amtrust has again sent me pictures  of the phone it says it sent, but as Ive already said in my 
provisional decision, while I agree that these  pictures dont show  any damage  to the phone,  
there isnt anything that shows  me that this is the phone it sent to Mr K. For example, I cant  
see the IMEI number  on the case, or the internal IMEI from the photos.
Ref: DRN77521072It isnt clear to me how the damage  occurred. Mr K says he received it like this, and Amtrust 
say it sent it in a good condition. Where both parties  disagree, its for me to decide  what I 
think is most likely  to have happened, taking into account all the evidence  thats  available.
The phone was delivered to Mr K at 10.39  in the morning. He then got in touch with Amtrust 
at 18.10 the same day to express  his concerns about the quality of the phone.  He says he 
did this as soon  as he opened the package. Amtrust  have suggested that the damage  could 
have happened  in this time. But having seen the extent of the damage,  I think  it unlikely. The 
damage that Ive seen  from the photos goes beyond  minor  damage that could have 
occurred in Mr Ks possession, for example,  dirt inside the camera and scratches that are 
generally consistent with heavy  use. I also have no reason  to disbelieve  what Mr K has said 
about contacting Amtrust as soon as he opened the package.
Amtrust have said they feel it is unfair that I would suggest that it would send a phone  in this 
condition, or that I would suggest that theyd take a picture of one phone  and send another.  
Im certainly not trying to imply that Amtrust  have  acted  in an unprofessional  manner,  but 
mistakes can and do happen. 
Mr K has said he wants compensation for the inconvenience and length of time it has taken 
to resolve this issue. But Im not going  to ask Amtrust to do this. I havent  seen anything that 
makes me think Amtrust  caused unnecessary delays when dealing with his claim. And Mr K 
has told us that he has been using a different phone while this issue  is resolved. So while I 
appreciate the situation Mr K has found himself in hasnt been ideal, I dont think Amtrust has 
done anything  wrong here. 
Amtrust should send  Mr K a replacement phone, in line with its policy  terms and conditions,  
of acceptable  quality, and Mr K should return the phone  Amtrust has sent him, if Amtrust 
wants this back. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Amtrust  Europe Limited should 
replace Mr Ks phone  in line with its policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77521073copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  sent him a damaged  phone after he claimed on his 
mobile phone insurance.
background
Mr K got in touch with Amtrust after he lost his phone. The claim was accepted  and it sent Mr K a 
refurbished phone to replace  the one he lost.
Mr K received the phone in the morning and then in the evening he contacted  Amtrust to let them 
know that the phone was damaged and covered in scratches. Mr K says that the phone was like this 
when he received  it.
Amtrust said it wouldnt  replace the phone as the phone it sent had passed quality control  before it 
was sent to Mr K and so the damage wasnt caused as a result of something it had done. It also 
noticed that the IMEI and serial number of the phone it says it sent, was different to the pictures of the 
phone Mr K sent showing the damage.
Mr K wasnt happy with Amtrusts response  so he came  to our service. Our investigator upheld  the 
complaint because he thought it more likely  that Amtrust had sent Mr K the damaged phone and so it 
should replace it. Amstrust  disagreed. Saying that the phone Mr K has sent pictures  of isnt the same 
phone they sent. Because neither party agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, and based on the information  I have available, Im 
planning to uphold this complaint.
Ive seen pictures of the phone Mr K says he got through the post.  Theres no dispute  that there is 
damage to the phone   and that, as a replacement phone, it isnt of an acceptable quality.
Amtrust have  sent in a picture of the phone  it says it sent to Mr K. The picture is of a phone  without 
any obvious  damage or cosmetic deficiencies.  But the picture also doesnt show the IMEI or serial  
number of the phone. So Im unable to conclude  that this is the phone that was sent to Mr K.
Amtrust has also sent me a copy of a report to show that the phone it sent was in good working order  
 and shows there  wasnt any cosmetic damage to the phone when it left its possession.  But again, I 
havent yet seen  anything that makes me think that this relates  to the phone Mr K actually received.
Mr K has sent pictures to show us the damaged phone he says he received. These pictures show a 
different IMEI and serial  number to Amtrusts records of the phone  it says it sent. So clearly, 
something doesnt quite add up.
There are a number of possible explanations as to what could have happened here. But at the 
moment, I dont have  enough information to say that the phone Amtrust  says it sent to Mr K, is the 
actual phone it sent or the one Mr K received.
Id be happy to consider any additional information either party has to support their version of events.
But without any additional  information,  its likely  Ill uphold this complaint and ask that Amtrust sends 
Mr K a replacement  phone  of acceptable quality.
Ref: DRN77521074my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im planning to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I now invite  Mr K and Amtrust to give me any further information they want me to consider
before I make my final decision. This must be provided  to us by 11 November 2019.
Ref: DRN7752107