K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about how Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd, a broker,  dealt with her 
instruction not to renew her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs As motor  insurance policy was due for renewal  on 4 November 2018. On 
30 October 2018, Mrs A told Be Wiser  that she didnt want to accept its renewal quote. 
Mrs A took out insurance with another insurer.
Be Wiser renewed Mrs As policy and took three  monthly payments from Mrs As account. 
Mrs A says that, as Be Wiser took those  payments,  there wasnt  enough  money in her 
account to pay the monthly instalment to her new insurer. So, the new insurer cancelled her 
policy for non-payment. 
Mrs A took out a second policy with the other insurer  but it cost her more.  She says that was 
because of the cancellation  of the previous policy. The other  insurer refunded  the additional 
premium it had originally asked Mrs A to pay. Be Wiser refunded the payments it had taken  
in error.  
In response to Mrs As complaint, Be Wiser  offered  her compensation of £100 in relation to 
her distress  and inconvenience and any bank  charges or lost interest.  Mrs A didnt accept 
that. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He said that Mrs A hadnt suffered 
any financial  loss but she had suffered distress and inconvenience. The investigator said 
that fair compensation for that was £200.  
Mrs A agreed with the investigator but Be Wiser didnt. It said:
The first payment it took in error was immediately following the (incorrect) renewal of 
the policy. So, Mrs A was aware  at that point  that there  was an error and could have 
cancelled the direct debit to mitigate  further impact. 
Mrs A didnt  tell it that her new insurer had refunded the increased  premium shed 
had to pay. If it hadnt taken steps to verify  Mrs As loss it may have paid her several 
hundred pounds in relation to that. 
It had considered the impact of its errors on Mrs A and thinks  that compensation of 
£100 is fair and that £200 is excessive  and out of line with other cases. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79284522Its common ground that Be Wiser made an error in renewing Mrs As policy  after she had 
given it instructions not to do so. It went on to take three monthly  payments  from Mrs As 
account. Its also agreed that Mrs A hasnt suffered any financial loss. So, the remaining 
issue for me to decide is the fair level of compensation for Mrs As distress  and 
inconvenience arising out of Be Wisers error. 
Each case is determined  on its own facts. We look at the effect  of an error on the individual 
in each case. That means that there isnt a set figure for compensation for this type of error. 
Be Wiser is the expert here and wed expect it to act on Mrs As instruction not to renew the 
policy. I dont think its reasonable for Be Wiser to say that Mrs A should have noticed the 
first incorrect  payment it took and cancelled the direct  debit. Mrs A says that she was away  
from late October 2018 onwards and had limited  access to the internet. So, I dont think that 
Mrs A was initially  aware of Be Wisers  error.
Be Wiser says that if it hadnt  taken steps  to verify  Mrs As loss it may have paid her several 
hundred pounds in relation to that. But it didnt do so. Mrs A would always have to provide 
evidence in relation to any claim  for loss and its established that she didnt suffer any 
financial loss here. I think thats  separate from Mrs As claim in relation to distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Considering everything, I think that compensation of £200 in relation to Mrs As distress and 
inconvenience is fair in this case. Be Wiser acted  against  Mrs As explicit instruction in 
relation to renewal  of the policy then took three  payments it wasnt entitled to take. When  
Mrs A initially contacted Be Wiser it asked  for proof of alternative  cover before it would 
cancel the policy with no charge. That was a further unnecessary obstacle for Mrs A. As 
Mrs A didnt want to renew  the policy it was entirely  a matter for her when and with whom 
she took out another policy. So, even after Mrs A pointed out its error, two further premiums  
were collected. Mrs A suffered inconvenience in having to sort this matter  out both with 
Be Wiser and her new insurer and distress in dealing  with a cancelled  policy.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint. I now require Be Wiser Insurance  
Services Ltd to pay Mrs A compensation of £200  in relation to her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7928452