K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  because  Union Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr M booked a holiday. He says,  on the advice of his GP, he didnt go so he made a claim 
on his travel insurance. Mr M said he sent in documents, including  a medical certificate but 
he hadnt received  a response to his claim.  Mr M contacted  our service and an investigator 
established that Mr M had sent the claims document  to the insurance broker rather than the 
insurer. So it was agreed Mr M would submit his claim to the insurer for them to consider it. 
Mr M sent in another claim form but wasnt able to provide copies  of the documents hed 
previously submitted. URV said they needed this information to assess the claim.  They  
issued a final response letter saying they needed the booking invoice, the cancellation 
invoice or no-show documentation and the completion of the medical certificate by Mr Ms 
GP. Mr M says hes already sent this information and he shouldnt  have to provide it again. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
that URV  werent  responsible for losing the original documentation and it was reasonable for 
them to ask Mr M for information to validate the complaint. Mr M didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint but didnt provide any additional comments or evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that URV has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because:  
Im not persuaded URV was responsible for losing the copies  of the original  
correspondence Mr M provided. It seems most likely Mr M was corresponding with 
the broker, not URV. So Im not persuaded  URV  has misplaced the original  
documents;
I can see Mr M emailed URV in November 2018 but Ive not seen evidence to 
confirm he sent them  a claim form in that email. So, on the basis  of the evidence  
thats available,  Im satisfied URV first received the claim  form in December 2018;
I entirely understand Mr Ms frustration that the original documents went missing  and 
that he spent time and money getting them. But I dont think its unreasonable  for 
URV to ask him to provide another copy as I dont think  they were responsible for the 
first set going missing.  URV arent declining Mr Ms claim but they need the 
information theyve  requested to assess it. URV  is entitled to ask for this information  
under the policy  terms and conditions. So if Mr M wishes to take his claim further  Id 
encourage him to provide the documentation  thats  been  requested.   
Ref: DRN71790592my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7179059