K821x#15complaint
Mr Y says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
background
Mr Y has a mortgage and a current account with TSB. Since  April 2018,  hes been able to 
see the balance  of his mortgage  on his online banking, but cant  see individual  entries of 
interest being added to the account  or his payments being debited.  Mr Y is unhappy he cant  
use the account as he wants to, so he wants to leave TSB as a customer.
Mr Y says hell have to pay an early redemption  charge if he repays his mortgage  early. He 
argues that hes only doing this because of the IT errors and says he doesnt feel he should 
be penalised  for no longer wanting  to use TSBs  services. So he wants the charge to be 
waived. TSB didnt agree to do this.
Two adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt  agree that the early  redemption charge 
should be waived.  But they both thought Mr Y had been distressed  and inconvenienced by 
not being able to see his full account entries  as he expected to. So they recommended TSB 
pay Mr Y £150 for the impact this had on him. 
Mr Y disagreed with this outcome  and felt he shouldnt be penalised for wanting to leave  
TSB. He was also unhappy that he still wasnt able to view the entries on his online banking.
As Mr Y didnt agree  with the two previous assessments,  the complaint has now been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  recommendation  of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience the error has caused Mr Y. And I dont think TSB should waive the early 
redemption charge if Mr Y decides  to repay his mortgage or change  to another  mortgage 
provider. Ill explain why.
Since the end of April 2018, Mr Y has only been able to see his statement balance  when 
using online banking.  So he hasnt been  able to see the individual entries  each month. TSB 
is aware of this issue and are actively working  to solve it but I can appreciate  this must  be 
frustrating. Because  of this, the online banking  for Mr Ys mortgage isnt working as TSB or 
Mr Y would like it to.
Even though  he cant see the mortgage details online, its possible for Mr Y to receive paper 
statements instead. He could then check the individual entries each month  to make sure the 
account is operating  as he expects it to. He can also visit a branch to find out this information 
over the counter. Mr Y has said he doesnt  want  to get statements in the post and doesnt 
expect to have  to visit a branch to find out this information. Thats his choice  but, while I 
can see Mr Y finds it frustrating that he cant fully use the online service he prefers, there are 
other options available to him that he is choosing not to use.
Ref: DRN75370862Mr Y says he wants to move his mortgage  away from TSB because  of the IT issues. But, 
while the online banking  isnt working as it should  be, Mr Y still has a working mortgage 
account he is able to monitor in other ways. So the IT issues  arent  forcing him to change his 
mortgage  hes choosing to do so because  he isnt satisfied with the service TSB is 
providing. Hes within his rights to do so, but if he does hell have  to abide by the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage agreement  he entered in to. If that includes an early repayment  
charge then TSB will be entitled  to apply it. I appreciate Mr Y would like the early payment  
charge to be waived.  But I dont think this request is fair or proportionate to the impact the IT 
problems have had on Mr Y.
While I dont agree TSB should waive the early  redemption  fee, I do think it should  pay Mr Y 
some compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been  caused. Its clear Mr Y is 
frustrated that he cant  monitor his account online. After considering how this has impacted  
Mr Y, I think the £150 previously recommended  is a fair way to resolve the complaint.  I think 
this fairly  reflects the level of frustration hes been  caused by not being able to view his 
mortgage online. 
what the business should  do to put things right
As explained above, TSB should  pay Mr Y £150  compensation for the impact the IT 
problems had on him. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ys complaint.  TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said 
above, if it hasnt  done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7537086