K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains about the contact that shes received from Hoist Finance UK Limited, 
trading as Robinson Way, about her debt. Shes being helped  with her complaint  by her 
husband.
background
Mrs S had a credit  card debt from 2008 with a third party  that was transferred to Robinson 
Way in September  2015. It obtained a county court judgment against her relating  to the debt 
in February 2017.  Mrs Ss husband contacted Robinson Way about her health issues  which 
affected her ability  to pay the debt and about  the way that it had contacted her. He said that 
contact from Robinson Way about  the debt exacerbated her health  issues and that all 
contact about  the debt should be with him. Robinson Way accepted  that mistakes had been 
made so it arranged for the judgment  to be set aside in September  2017 and it paid £200 
compensation to Mrs S. Robinson Way then contacted Mrs S about the debt multiple  times  
so her husband again complained to it  and he says that the debt should be statute barred. 
He wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained  to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought that it was 
likely that the text messages that Robinson  Way sent to Mrs S wouldve been distressing  for 
her  so he recommended that it should pay her £200 to recognise the impact that it 
wouldve had on her. And he said that Robinson Way also needed to ensure that it removed 
Mrs Ss contact  number from all of her accounts  to prevent this happening  again. He also 
said that Mrs Ss husband should tell Robinson Way if it was likely to receive any other 
accounts that belong to Mrs S.
Mrs S husband, on her behalf,  has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. He says,  in summary,  that:
Robinson Way hasnt  stopped contacting Mrs S which suggests that either it didnt  
raise the issue internally as it said it would  or that it doesnt consider it worth  looking 
into;
he can provide evidence to show the impact that the contact has had on Mrs S;
it contacted Mrs S nine times over a period  of a couple of months  and the effect on 
her health was cumulative, each putting her into a worse  state   and the distress  and 
adverse health  effects caused  to her by the events of this complaint are on a level 
that is far, far in excess of those  caused  by the first complaint for which  she received 
£200 compensation;
Robinson Way has said that Mrs Ss husband would be contacted by its specialist 
team for vulnerable  customers but that hasnt  happened  and he doubts that such a 
team exists;
Robinson Way has said that the account is on hold but has continued to send 
multiple demands for payment;
Robinson Way has continued  to contact Mrs S whilst this service  deals with her 
complaint and has requested financial and medical information  which has already 
been provided to it; and
it contacted Mrs S again  by letter twice in August 2019  asking for an update about 
her circumstances and about  her complaint  to this service.
And Robinson  Way has also asked for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
Ref: DRN72333492since its final response  letter in November 2018  no further text messages were sent 
to Mrs S and it doesnt intend  to issue any more;
it cant prevent any new accounts being on-boarded which contain Mrs S as the 
debtor but its recommending  exception reporting and is significantly investing in new 
technology;
it doesnt hold a singular customer view now but its likely that itll be available in the 
future; and
its searched its records  and there  are no other  accounts which contain Mrs Ss 
mobile number;
and it would like to work with Mrs Ss husband  about  the best way forward  on both of her 
accounts and there  have  been no payments on the accounts and her current  liabilities are 
£19,422.50.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to Robinson  Way on 9 October 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
There doesnt seem  to be any dispute  that Mrs S is a vulnerable customer because 
of her health issues. And as such I consider it to be reasonable for Robinson  Way to 
make adjustments to the way that it deals with her because of those issues.  Mrs Ss 
husband has asked  that all communications be sent to him and he has provided 
authority for that from Mrs S.
But Robinson Way has continued  to communicate with Mrs S. She has at least two 
accounts with it and it accepts that its sent eight  text messages to her about one of 
those accounts.  And her husband has provided  copies  of two letters that it sent to her 
in August 2019 about the other account.  
I dont consider that to be acceptable.  I accept  that Robinson Way is entitled  to seek  
repayment of the debts  (to the extent that its legally  entitled to do so) but I consider 
that all communication  about the debts  should  be sent to Mrs Ss husband and that it 
shouldnt contact Mrs S at all.
Mrs Ss husband has provided  some  information about the impact of the contact on 
Mrs S. He complained to Robinson Way in August 2018 but it didnt send its final 
response letter until November 2018   fourteen weeks later and substantially later 
than the eight weeks in which its required to respond to a complaint. That will have 
caused further distress  and inconvenience  to Mrs S.
I consider that Robinson  Way must  ensure that it doesnt contact Mrs S about her 
debts. All contact should be through her husband.  If Mrs S receives further contact 
from Robinson Way, I suggest  that she complains to it and then, if shes  not satisfied 
with its response,  she may be able to complain  to this service. 
Robinson Way has said that these issues were going to be dealt with by a specialist 
team and then that they were no longer being considered by its legal team.  Its not 
my role to tell Robinson  Way how to organise  its business but I consider that it would 
be appropriate for it to ensure that Mrs Ss accounts  are dealt with in a way that 
recognises and takes account of her vulnerability. Robinson Way says that it would  
like to work with Mrs Ss husband  about the best way forward on both of Mrs Ss 
accounts as there have  been no payments on the accounts and her current  liabilities 
Ref: DRN72333493are £19,422.50. I suggest that Mrs Ss husband  contacts Robinson  Way to try to 
agree a way forward  and if he doesnt do so within two weeks of this decision that it 
makes contact with him. But I find that it shouldnt contact Mrs S about those issues.  
These events have caused  significant but avoidable  distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs S. And I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances for it to 
pay her £500 to compensate her for that distress  and inconvenience. 
Mrs Ss husband says that her debt should be statute  barred  because  Mrs S thinks  
that its around ten years since she last made a payment on the account. But a court 
issued a judgment against Mrs S in February  2017 (which was set aside in 
September 2017). The court didnt consider that the debt was statute barred. Its not 
for me to say whether  a debt is statute barred  - only the courts can do that. But 
having said that, based on the evidence that Ive been presented  with in connection 
with this complaint,  Im not persuaded that the debt would  be statute barred.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs S, her husband  or Robinson Way, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold  this complaint in part.
Mrs Ss husband says that she accepts my provisional decision. Robinson  Way says that its 
received my provisional  decision and that its possible that it might make a further  
submission. But despite being given additional time to respond  to my provisional decision, it 
hasnt done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. And I 
order Hoist Finance UK Limited, trading as Robinson Way, to pay £500 compensation to 
Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience  that shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7233349