K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr L. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store card account. Mr L 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account  in the shop.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  a different view to that 
of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked for comments and any further 
evidence. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because  the 
adjudicator thought FICL hadnt  given Mr L enough  information about the costs and 
benefits and that Mr L wouldnt have taken  the PPI if hed fully understood the details 
of the policy. This was because, the adjudicator said,  Mr L was entitled to 12 months 
full sick pay from his employer, and so he had his own way of keeping  up with his 
repayments. 
However, Santander wondered whether Mr L would have received such a level of 
sick pay, given  the nature  of his employment  and how short  a time hed been working 
there. So I asked the adjudicator to get more detail about Mr Ls sick pay entitlement.  
In response Mr L said:
I would have officially  received 6 months  full pay and 6 months half pay but 
the company was excellent and this was subject to my boss's discretion so it 
would have been highly likely that the period of full pay would have been 
extended beyond  the contracted 6 month  period.
Mr L has told us he didnt  have savings and would instead also have relied on help 
from his partners income. 
So I think that, even  if Mr L had been given  full and clear information  about the PPI, it 
wouldnt have affected whether or not he took the PPI. The only thing  he could be 
certain about was his entitlement to 6 months  full pay, and 6 months half pay. So the 
PPI could still have  been paying  out by the time he went  on to half pay. And its likely 
that his partners pay would still have been  needed  to contribute to their every day 
living costs,  especially if hed lost his own income, so may not have been available to 
help pay the credit card. The PPI could also have  covered Mr L if he became 
unemployed, and would have been paid on top of any redundancy pay he received. 
So, overall, its likely the PPI would still have seemed  potentially  useful, even if Mr L 
had understood  all the details of the policy.
Ref: DRN79378572Ive also looked  at whether there  were  other  possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think  they apply to this case:
 The form, which Mr L signed,  does  set out the PPI as a choice, which you make 
by signing a special  box to say you want the insurance. So I think hed have 
understood it was optional  at the time. 
 Ive seen nothing  to show that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly 
suitable for Mr Ls individual needs. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI 
fitted his circumstances. It would have been for Mr L to decide whether it was 
suitable.
 It doesnt look like hed have  been affected by any of the significant exclusions  
in the policy. 
So my current view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  Im not upholding this complaint.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7937857