K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms M says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Egg)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms M applied for his PPI policy through an online application at the same  time as she 
applied for her card. Egg hasnt been  able to show us Ms Ms completed online application, 
so Ive considered  what we know  more  widely about how it sold PPI online around  this time. 
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Ms M saw at the time of sale,  and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So I think its likely that Egg gave 
Ms M the option to either accept or decline  the cover before continuing with her credit  card 
application. Egg has also given us a copy of the data that was captured  from Ms Ms 
application, I can see that the yes box has been  selected to confirm  she wanted the PPI.
So I think Egg made it clear that the PPI was optional and that Ms M chose to take the 
policy. Considering  how long ago the sale took place I think its understandable she cant  
remember doing so now.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. Ms M has told us she was entitled  to sick pay at the time she took the policy. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Ms Ms sick pay and for longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And although  Ms M has told us she was struggling  
financially at the time I still think she could have found the policy useful, and as Ive said 
above I think she chose  to have it. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Ms M about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Ms M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN77439882my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Ms M any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7743988