K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on his behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Rs credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr R disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion saying, in summary  that:
He is sure he wouldve received sick pay from his employer.
He thought he had to take the PPI, he wasnt told it was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint because:
The application form didnt specifically say that PPI was optional. But it required Mr R to 
sign separately from the card application. In the wording  above the signature box it said,  
I would like to take advantage of it. And in the signature box it said, Sign here for 
cover. Overall, I think RBS made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it - although I can understand why he can no longer remember this, given 
it took place so long ago.
RBS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for 
him. 
Its possible  the information RBS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But Mr R chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover.  He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr R would 
have made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance 
I think he would still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Rs comments, including what  hes said about his sick pay. 
But this doesnt  change my conclusion. The policy wouldve covered Mr R for up to 
12 months if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay he wouldve received. So it couldve been a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN78565772But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856577