K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (ECI) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 instalment loans ECI provided to Mr M in November 2018.  Mr Ms 
borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 18/11/2018 27/12/2018 12 £100.00 £48.33
2 19/11/2018 27/12/2018 12 £100.00 £96.30
3 21/11/2018 27/12/2018 12 £100.00 £143.25
4 22/11/2018 27/12/2018 12 £100.00 £190.20
Mr M says he was struggling financially to pay off the loans, so he says he had to borrow 
from elsewhere to pay them off. He concludes ECI lent irresponsibly  to him.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt  have been 
given. ECI disagreed and the complaint was passed to me. ECI added that its own rules  
allowed it to give 4 loans  to a consumer which means a consumer could borrow four small 
amounts instead  of one large  amount. So if they were affordable, the loans were  issued.
None of the parties has commented on loans 1, 2 and 3 being rejected. So I wont need  to 
look at loans 1 to 3 again.  However, I will look at all the loans and the general lending  history 
to assess the case  fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
ECI needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that ECI should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN74302232the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, I dont think we reach  that point 
here, in Mr Ms case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ECI was required to establish whether 
Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably  make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
As our adjudicator explained,  a proportionate check for loan 4 would most likely have shown 
that Mr M was not managing his money  well. I say this because when Mr M took out loan 4, 
he would  have had 4 overlapping loans. I note that this would not have  been an issue  for 
ECI due to its own internal lending policy, but I also noted Mr M had taken  out 4 loans in 4 
days  despite  not having made  any loan repayments. I think  a proportionate check means  
ECI would  have  realised Mr M was not engaged  in short term lending to deal with an 
unexpected cash-flow. It was more likely he had longer term financial problems which he 
wasnt managing  well. So I dont  think ECI should  have  given  loan 4 to Mr M.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 4 and ECI should  put things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 4;
pay 8% per year simple interest  on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loan 4 from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit International  Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited must give Mr M a certificate  showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN74302233my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7430223