K821x#15complaint
Mrs M and Mr D complain  that a car they have  been financing through  an agreement  with 
GCC Servicing (GCC), trading as The Car Finance  Company (2007), has been  immobilised  
unnecessarily.
background
Mrs M and Mr D took receipt of a used car in January 2016. They  financed  the deal through  
a hire purchase agreement. The car was fitted  with an immobiliser  which  would activate if 
payments on the agreement werent  made.
Mrs M called  them  in the summer of 2018 and explained  shed  lost her job and was 
concerned she may not be able to make  a payment to the account. She was relieved when 
GCC told her the account was in credit and the credit would cover this months payment 
anyway. But when Mrs M followed their instructions and didnt make the payment it was 
recorded as a missed  payment and the car was immobilised. Mrs M complained  to GCC. 
They offered  to repay one monthly  instalment and to provide £55 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their mistake and Mrs M accepted their offer.
In April 2019 Mrs M experienced further problems with the immobiliser. It beeped 
inexplicably and she had to spend  considerable time on the phone to GCC to resolve the 
problem. It was explained that the beeping  was to warn Mrs M that payments were due in a 
few days and that there also seemed  to be a voltage  problem with the immobiliser.  GCC 
didnt support the complaint Mrs M made  or rectify  any fault that they appeared to suggest  
was present with the voltage. So Mrs M, frustrated  by the situation, and GCCs lack of 
response, referred her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought GCC had been  fair when providing the compensation they had for 
the earlier problems  Mrs M experienced in 2018. But she didnt think theyd investigated  the 
April 2019 incident  thoroughly and she understood that Mrs M had been inconvenienced by 
the issue. She noted that the fault with the immobiliser had resulted in her not being  able to 
collect her children from school on time and spending time on money  on a phone  call to 
resolve the situation. She therefore  suggested  that GCC pay Mrs M and Mr D £75 to 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused by this issue.
GCC disagreed with the adjudicators view so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint GCC Servicing so please  let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN75794532board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M and Mr D acquired their car under  a hire purchase agreement.  The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our service  is able to 
look into complaints  about  it.
Ive considered the problems Mrs M had with GCC in 2018 and I think  GCC acted 
reasonably. The immobilisation wasnt  Mrs Ms fault and had obviously inconvenienced  her 
but Im persuaded the refund of the monthly instalment and £55 in compensation was 
sufficient in the circumstances.
I can understand Mrs Ms frustration that further  issues have developed. Shes clearly had to 
contact GCC about  problems with the immobiliser and they agreed that there were signs of a 
voltage problem  with the device. I can understand that having  to make phone  calls to resolve 
the situation would be inconvenient and time consuming. GCC havent provided any 
compensation for this more recent problem and I think they should. In the circumstances I 
would agree with our adjudicators suggestion that £75 is about right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell GCC to pay Mrs M 
and Mr D £75 to compensate them for the distress  and inconvenience theyve experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7579453