K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the delay in a payment he made using  his HSBC UK Bank Plc 
account.
background
On Sunday,  8 July 2018 Mr P wanted to make a payment to his friend.  His friend was using  
the money to pay for a flight  as his father  was unwell and in hospital  in another  country. 
Mr P called HSBC to make the payment. He was told this would be done using the faster  
payments system, so it should arrive within 2 hours. However there were problems with the 
faster payments  service that day and so the payment took till the next day to credit.
Mr P complained about the delay. He said the delay had caused him embarrassment, 
distress and inconvenience.
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Ps complaint. He acknowledged the payment 
had taken longer  than expected. However said he didnt feel Mr P had lost out as a result of 
the delay, so didnt feel compensation was due. Mr P didnt agree so the case has come to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
Faster payments is a way of transferring money  from one account to another quickly. The 
faster payment  schemes website sets out typical timescales. The guidelines state the 
payments are usually  available  almost immediately, although they can sometimes  take up to 
two hours.  But it goes on to say some payments will take longer-especially if made  outside  
of usual business hours. 
I can see a notice that was published by the faster payment scheme on 10 July explaining 
there had been  delays  on payments made using the system on 8 July. This affected  lots of 
customers, across various banks  and building societies. So in this case  it seems Mr Ps 
payment was delayed  by a technical issue, and was one of many payments delayed.  
Mr P explained when the payment didnt  arrive, his friend was able to get the money  from 
elsewhere and make the flight. He then paid his friend back. So I cant say Mr P lost out as a 
result of the system delay. 
Its frustrating  when  things  dont go according  to plan,  and so I appreciate  Mr Ps feelings 
about this situation. However  the payment did reach his friend the next day and I cant  see 
Mr Ps plans  were considerably changed  or affected by the delay. So I dont think  HSBC 
should compensate  Mr P as a result  of this small delay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So I dont ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
do anything further.
Ref: DRN78338892Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7833889