K820x#14complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC paid her for a   
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms W took out a loan with Lloyds in November  2001. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
The loan was for £5,000  to be repaid over 60 months. The PPI policy was funded with a 
single premium of £1,153.74  which was added to loan. Ms Ws total monthly loan repayment 
was £140.65 of which £26.37 was the monthly  cost of the PPI.
In 2018 Ms W complained  to Lloyds about the sale of the PPI. Lloyds agreed the PPI was 
mis-sold and offered Ms W £3,020.21 compensation.
Ms W remained unhappy with Lloyds response to her complaint  and asked us to step in.
Ms W says the additional cost of the PPI caused  her other  losses and affected her health.  
Ms W wants to be compensated for these consequential losses.
An adjudicator from this service thought Lloyds offer was fair and didnt think Lloyds had to 
do anything more. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaints been  
passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Lloyds has agreed  to uphold the complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy.  So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Ms W. Instead Ive looked at whether Lloyds offer 
is fair or whether it needs to do something more.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds  offer is fair and I am not going to direct  it to do anything 
more or different. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN79077072Lloyds calculations.
Ive first looked at Lloyds  offer of compensation to see if it has calculated the compensation 
in the way Id expect  it to.
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id usually expect a business to put the consumer in 
the financial position they would be in if the policy wasnt sold in the first place.
In this case Lloyds  has refunded  Ms W everything the PPI cost her. It has refunded the PPI 
premium and the interest added to the loan because of the PPI. Lloyds has also calculated 
and paid compensatory interest at 8% simple for the time Ms W was out of pocket.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  has carried out the calculation in the way Id expect it to and in terms 
of the direct  cost of the PPI, it has put Ms W in the position she would have been in but for 
the PPI sale.
Ms Ws consequential  losses
Ms W has told us the strain of paying  the additional cost of the loan caused  by the PPI 
resulted in her health suffering and she became poorly in 2002. This in turn meant she had 
to take a break from her studies and it has had a long term detrimental effect on her finances 
and career. 
I have thought carefully about this and Ive considered everything Ms W has told us.                                                
I am sorry  to hear about Ms Ws ill health and the difficult  time she had from 2002 onwards. 
But in order for me to uphold this part of the complaint and make an additional award, Id 
need to find the additional  £26.37  per month  was likely the main factor  that caused Ms Ws 
health to fail and led to her subsequent  financial  difficulties.
I realise Ms W has told us the cost of the PPI was, in effect, the straw that broke the camels 
back. Without the PPI, the loan repayments  would still have been  £114.28  per month  instead  
of £140.65. Although the PPI represents around  20% of the loan repayment, I have to bear 
in mind that it would  represent a much smaller percentage of Ms Ws overall monthly 
spending.
Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that even without the sale of the PPI 
Ms W would have still faced largely the same financial difficulties so I dont think  it would  be 
fair for me to make any additional award  for consequential losses.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has fairly compensated  Ms W for the mis-sale of 
the PPI in 2001 and I make no further award against it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7907707