K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance policy  taken out in 1994.  
Mr J says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr J and Nationwide  a provisional  decision saying I didnt intend to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. I said Id consider anything else Mr J and Nationwide wanted to give me by 
26 April 2019. Nationwide  didnt have anything new to add. Mr J replied with further points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Having considered Mr Js further points, Ive still decided  not to uphold the complaint. Ive set 
out my reasons  below. What I say in many places closely follows  my provisional decision.
I think its likely Nationwide asked Mr J whether he wanted the disability and unemployment 
cover the PPI offered for his mortgage  payments. His mortgage  application  has a separate  
section for Unemployment, Accident and Sickness Protection. It asks: Do you want your 
mortgage payments  to be covered in the event of an accident, sickness or unemployment? 
It has boxes to say yes or no. I think Mr J said he wanted the cover, because the yes box 
is ticked. And as there was the option to say no instead, I think its likely Nationwide made it 
clear that Mr J didnt have to take the cover. So I think the fact Mr J took the cover means he 
decided at the time that he wanted this sort of cover.
Mr J says he believes that because  Nationwide offered the PPI policy to him as a member of 
the Nationwide,  Nationwide  had a responsibility to ensure the policy was fit for his needs  
which he believes didnt happen his particular situation. Ive thought  about  this carefully. But 
I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to offer Mr J the cover, and leave it to him to decide 
whether he wanted  it, without also offering  him personalised  advice  on whether the cover fit 
his own particular circumstances.  
I say this taking into account  that I havent  seen  anything  from the time of the sale to suggest 
that Nationwide offered  Mr J - or led him to believe it was offering - personalised advice on 
the suitability of the PPI for his particular circumstances.  And the mortgage application form 
seems to put the onus on Mr J to check the leaflet  before deciding whether to take the cover. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Js membership  of Nationwide implied  that Nationwide  would do 
more and check the cover fitted  Mr Js personal  situation before offering it to him.
Nationwide had to give Mr J the information he needed to decide  whether he wanted  the PPI 
in his circumstances. Before asking whether he wanted the cover, his mortgage application 
says: Please read the Mortgage Payment Cover  Leaflet and ensure that you are eligible 
before answering  the questions below. So, bearing in mind  that Mr J signed the mortgage 
application form, I think its fair to say that Nationwide  likely  made  him aware that a leaflet 
about the cover was available  but I dont know whether Mr J did read the leaflet or whether 
it was given to him. Also I dont have anything from the time  like a sales script for example 
Ref: DRN74620072 to show how Nationwide was supposed  to present  the PPI in the meeting. So I dont  know 
exactly what information  if any  it gave Mr J verbally.
So rather  than assume that Mr J got all the information he needed to make his decision,  Ive 
looked to see whether  or not what I have supports the idea that better information about the 
cover wouldve most  likely changed  Mr Js decision to take the cover.
From what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time of the sale,  Mr J wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  on or limits to the cover. For example  he didnt suffer  from health  issues,  so 
he wouldnt  have been affected by the policy exclusion  concerning  existing health issues. 
And hed been  with his employer for more than six months  so he wouldnt have been 
affected by the exclusion  that applied to unemployment claims which  werent preceded by 
six months continuous employment. So I dont  think better  information  about the policy  
exclusions wouldve changed Mr Js decision about the cover.
Mr J has suggested that information about the deferral period mightve made  a difference  to 
his decision to take the cover. But when he bought the PPI he had resources, like savings, to 
help him in the short term. He also had insured benefits from his employer, payable  for up to 
52 weeks. He has told us he didnt  have those benefits at the time of his attempted claim a 
few years later. But they were there when he bought the PPI. Overall what I have  makes  me 
think it likely  that when  he took the PPI Mr J had the resources to manage in the short term 
until the PPI benefit  became payable. I also think its likely  Mr Js need for the policy benefit 
wouldve been greater  the longer his loss of work  lasted. Given  that it could pay out for up to 
two years,  it looks like the policy couldve been especially useful if Mr J were off or out of 
work for a long period.
It was up to Mr J to decide whether he needed the PPI in his circumstances. So Nationwide 
didnt have to find out about  his existing employee cover or assess  what impact,  if any, that 
cover might have on Mr Js need for the PPI. I agree  with Mr J that Nationwide  had a duty of 
care to provide  clear information  about  the benefits  and limitations  of the PPI cover.  I dont 
know whether Nationwide fulfilled that duty properly. But Mr J said yes to the cover  knowing 
it was for unemployment and disability  so, knowing what he knew of his own situation, and 
whatever weight, if any, he gave his existing benefits at the time, it looks like he decided he 
wanted this sort of cover at the time.  It looks  like the PPI was affordable.  Also it helped to 
protect Mr Js mortgage - a significant and long term liability secured on his home. Taking 
this and everything else Ive said above into account, Im not persuaded better information 
about the cover wouldve changed Mr Js decision to take the cover.  
Ive thought about all of Mr Js points  and Im grateful  to him for his patience and courtesy 
throughout this matter.  But, for the reasons Ive given above,  I dont think  I should uphold  the 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7462007