K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  by Economic Financial Solutions  IFA Limited 
(trading as Torch  Wealth Management) (Torch).  He was advised to transfer  his pension 
funds to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension  (SIPP)  and to invest with a stockbroker using a 
discretionary fund manager. He feels the advice  was unsuitable and the investments made  
on his behalf were inappropriate.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
20 May 2019, a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional view was that Torch  hadnt acted fairly and reasonably when  it advised  Mr C 
to invest his pension  funds in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model Portfolio.  My view was 
that, suitably advised,  Mr C would have invested  in a medium risk fund (or portfolio of funds). 
I thought fair redress should be based  on comparing the notional transfer value of such a 
plan with the notional transfer value of the new SIPP if the Aggressive Model Portfolio had 
been managed  in line with its stated objectives  and investment approach. 
I also thought  Torch should pay Mr C up to £1,000 to enable him to take advice elsewhere  
on how he should invest his pension funds, and £300 for trouble and upset.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings.
Torch said it had nothing  further to add.
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision.  His representative  made  these points, in 
summary:
Before sending Mr Cs application  to the SIPP administrator, Torch  was already in 
conversation with the stockbroker regarding the stock selection not being correct.  
Despite this, Torch  still continued  to place  business with company.
Even if Torch claims it wasnt aware  of the stockbrokers  stock  selections for previous 
clients, it was its responsibility to contact the stockbroker and ask for them. Torch 
should have stopped  trading with the stockbroker a lot sooner than it did.
Had the advice  been correct in the first place then Torch  should have told the client 
not to transfer,  so it seems logical that it should  be liable for all the losses on the 
account. Torch should  be made liable for the poor advice and compensate the client 
fully.
The offer of redress or compensation should  be a money amount and should be in 
accordance with what a court would award the client.  Mr Cs representative said this 
is what the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) Handbook requires.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70157142From the evidence Ive seen, Torchs first queries about the discretionary  fund manager  
diverging from the model portfolio were  in emails to the SIPP  provider in October  2015.  
Mr Cs funds had been transferred  to the new SIPP and invested with the stockbroker, on 
Torchs advice, in July 2015.  It therefore  appears  that Torch  first raised  concerns about  the 
discretionary fund managers stock selection  and asset allocation  more than two months 
after the advice  to Mr C and the transfer  of his funds. So I dont think  the evidence shows 
that Torch was already concerned about  investment failings at the stockbroker when it made 
its recommendations to Mr C.
I havent seen  any supporting evidence that Torchs experience  with other  clients  should 
have made  it stop trading with the stockbroker before  Mr Cs new SIPP  was set up. The 
initial problems raised by Torch  from the end of September  2015 onwards  were  about 
the visibility of clients accounts on the stockbrokers  system, and about  concerns that funds 
werent being fully invested  in other words, about  client funds still remaining on cash 
deposit in the SIPP. These were discussed in emails, and the stockbroker  said they were 
caused by computer problems which were being  addressed. Im satisfied that Torch did 
pursue the issue  of account visibility. But Ive seen nothing to indicate that Torch had any 
reason, before October  2015, to suspect that the discretionary fund manager had diverged 
from the model portfolio regarding Mr Cs account or any others.
A further  £913.18  was sent to the stockbroker for investment on 4 December 2015 (when the 
final income came through from Mr Cs first SIPP) and this was nearly two months after 
Torch had first raised its concerns about the portfolio. But by the time of this second  transfer,  
the SIPP provider  and Torch had demanded and received assurances  from the stockbroker 
that all investments would  be standard  (as defined  by the FCA) and would be allocated  in 
line with the published model portfolios as agreed. I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Torch, having  received  these assurances, to permit this final part of Mr Cs pension  funds to 
be transferred. A letter confirming that investments would be standard  wasnt actually signed  
by a director of the stockbroker until 11 December  2015, but this doesnt change my view. 
Had Torch waited for the signature, the outcome would have been the same  Mr Cs funds 
would still have been transferred to the stockbroker, but just a week later than they actually 
were.
I understand Mr Cs representatives  argument  that the redress should be calculated  on a 
different basis, but I dont  agree with him. In effect, Mr Cs representative  is saying Torch  
should take responsibility for losses that resulted  from the discretionary  fund managers 
deviation from the approach described in the Aggressive Model Portfolio factsheet. The 
stockbroker was a regulated  business  and Torch gave it instructions to invest Mr Cs funds in 
line with the approach described in the factsheet. If Mr C suffered losses  because the 
stockbroker didnt carry out Torchs instructions correctly, then I dont think it would be fair for 
me to require Torch  to compensate Mr C for the stockbrokers failings. As explained in the 
provisional decision, Mr Cs complaint about  the stockbroker is now in the hands of the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I dont agree with Mr Cs representative that the FCA Handbook requires all ombudsman 
awards to be a money amount  in accordance with what a court would  award. The rules 
require the ombudsman to determine  the complaint  by reference to what is, in his opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case, which  is what  Ive done.  In 
considering whats  fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice.  Ive done that, as appropriate to the 
circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN70157143For the reasons  given  above, my final decision remains the same as set out in the attached  
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions 
IFA Limited to calculate and pay redress to Mr C as set out in the attached  provisional  
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70157144COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  by Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited (trading 
as Torch Wealth Management) (Torch). He was advised to transfer his pension  funds to a Self-
Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) and to invest with a stockbroker  using a discretionary  fund 
manager. He feels the advice was unsuitable and the investments made on his behalf  were 
inappropriate.
background
Mr Cs first SIPP and his introduction  to Torch
In early 2015 Mr C transferred his pension funds into a SIPP (which I shall call the first SIPP).  This 
transfer had nothing to do with Torch  it happened  when Mr C was a client of another financial  
adviser. 
Mr C then wished to transfer  out of the first SIPP, as it was no longer possible  for the SIPP provider  to 
make the investments that had been originally intended. Mr C was introduced to Torch  for advice. 
Torchs assessment and advice
Torch reviewed Mr Cs circumstances. Fact-finding  documents recorded  the following  information 
about Mr C:
He was aged  47.
He was married  with no dependants.
He was employed with a gross income  of £85,000 a year.
Hed been  a member  of his company pension  scheme since 2012.
His savings and investments,  held jointly  with his wife were: £10,000 held in cash/deposit, 
£5,000 as an emergency fund, £15,000 in stocks and shares,  and £30,000 in other 
investments.
Using a risk-profiling tool, Torch assessed his attitude  to risk as Profile 9 (on a scale of 1 to 
10, where 10 was the highest risk). Profile 9 was categorised as very high risk.
Although Mr Cs answers to the risk profiling questionnaire indicated his attitude  to accepting  risk was 
very high (Profile 9), Torch  recommended a portfolio  for someone with a lower risk profile  of 7, 
categorised as highest  medium risk. 
Torch recommended Mr C should  transfer  his pension funds into a new SIPP. It advised  Mr C to place 
his funds with a particular discretionary fund manager at a stockbroker.
Torch would  charge Mr C a fixed  fee of £7,500 from the pension fund, along  with 0.75% a year for 
ongoing advice.
Mr Cs new SIPP
Torch arranged Mr Cs new SIPP with another SIPP operator. 
£219,625.22 was then transferred from Mr Cs first SIPP to the new SIPP in July 2015. Of this, 
£211,933.22 was sent to the stockbroker for investment. Torch gave instructions  to the stockbroker 
that the money should be invested using its Aggressive Model Portfolio. This was one of a range of 
portfolio models which would be managed by a discretionary fund manager, who would invest the 
money in a number of separate assets.
Ref: DRN70157145A final £907.71 was transferred from the first SIPP  to the new SIPP in December  2015 and £913.18 
was sent to the stockbroker for investment.
The stockbrokers factsheet on its Aggressive Model  Portfolio said its objective was as follows:
"to outperform the FTSE/WMA Stock Market  Global  Growth index over the medium term.  
The underlying investments will give a broad global diversification allowing the investor  
exposure to valued asset classes from all corners of the globe with the assurance of liquid 
vehicles through the London  Stock  Exchange." 
It also said the portfolio would: 
primarily invest in ETFs [Exchange Traded Funds],  quality corporate bonds, cash and other 
passive investments. 
The factsheet  said the actual  asset allocation  as at May 2015 was 90% international  equities  and 10% 
UK government debt.  
questions to the stockbroker
Soon after Mr Cs funds were transferred,  Torch raised  concerns  with the SIPP  operator about  the 
investments the fund manager had made. From October 2015 onwards there were  email exchanges 
between Torch,  the SIPP  operator  and the stockbroker about this matter.
Torch and the SIPP  operator  questioned whether  the stockbroker was managing Mr Cs funds  in line 
with the approach described  in the Aggressive Model  Portfolio factsheet  and whether the assets were 
sufficiently diversified. These exchanges continued for over a year without resolution. My 
understanding is that Mr C wasnt a party to this communication.
Mr Cs complaint
In September 2016, Mr C complained to Torch about the advice hed received and the investments 
made on his behalf. 
In response, Torch told Mr C it believed  the flexibility offered by a SIPP was superior  to any other 
plan. And it said it had recommended a portfolio suited to a combination  of Mr Cs attitude to risk as 
well as his capacity for loss. It said the stockbroker hadnt complied with the stated aims  or the risk 
level of the published model portfolio, so the complaint shouldnt be directed  at Torch.
Unhappy with Torchs response, Mr C referred his complaint  to this service, saying that over 98% of 
the pension fund had been  invested  in penny shares and, because  of the collapse in their value,  hed 
suffered severe  financial  losses.  
the adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that the advice 
to transfer into a new SIPP  and invest in the specific portfolio wasnt suitable. He gave these  reasons, 
in summary:
It seems Torch  didnt consider alternative options, such as a stakeholder pension. On charges 
alone, a stakeholder was a better alternative to a new SIPP.  Although he had already 
transferred into a SIPP, that advice  was given by another party. Torch still had a duty to give 
suitable advice, even if it meant advising  against  a new SIPP.
There was no evidence that Mr C wanted flexibility  or wider  fund choice. 
Ref: DRN70157146The model  portfolio recommended by Torch wasnt suitable for Mr C. The risk level of the 
portfolio as advertised was too high for him. Torch  had identified Mr Cs capacity for loss as 
low to medium.
In the adjudicators opinion,  Mr C should have transferred into a stakeholder  plan and 
invested in a medium  risk portfolio. 
Torch didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions. It made  these points:
The stakeholder wasnt a cheaper option. Stakeholder charges  would have been 1.50% per 
year, for the first ten years.  The new SIPPs  product  and fund charges were 0.98% per year.  
The adjudicator  added the cost of Torchs advice  and service to the overall SIPP charges. 
Even if he had transferred to a stakeholder,  Torch would  have invoiced Mr C for its advice.
Even if flexibility  wasnt a requirement at the time of advice, it wouldnt be in the clients 
interest to restrict  his options with an inflexible plan. 
The Aggressive Model Portfolio had a risk rating of 6-7. This was exactly  in line with the 
assessed and agreed risk of 7 for Mr C.
The capacity for loss of medium  was well within the bounds of the clients  situation. The 
portfolio recommended was high-medium.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, relevant  
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the 
time.
Mr C also complained about  the actions of the stockbroker. Thats  been the subject of a separate 
claim by Mr C which is now with the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Although I 
need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker,  to avoid any doubt I 
should stress that my decision here concerns  Mr Cs complaint about Torchs actions  and the extent 
to which they have contributed to any losses Mr C may have incurred.
what should Torch  have done?
Torch was advising Mr C. It was therefore required to give him suitable advice. 
In my view,  there are two specific questions I must answer in order to determine whether Torch  acted  
fairly and reasonably when it advised Mr C to move his pension funds to a new SIPP and invest  them 
in the stockbrokers  Aggressive Model Portfolio. This also assists me in determining whether  the 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests  and if not, what I consider he ought to have been advised  to do 
instead: 
first, was the level of risk of the recommended  investment the correct one for Mr C? 
secondly, what  alternatives were open  to Mr C to meet his objectives? 
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mr C?
Torch assessed Mr Cs attitude to risk using  a risk profiling tool based on a series  of questions. The 
answers were used to arrive  at the conclusion that his attitude to risk was Profile 9 (on a scale of 1 
to 10) which was categorised as very high risk. It isnt clear to me how the rating was arrived at. The 
Ref: DRN70157147questions didnt include a description of the risks Mr C would be taking and how they might be 
relevant to him and his specific circumstances  and objectives.  Nor was there any attempt  to illustrate 
how much  Mr C could lose and what this might mean for his pension fund and retirement planning.  
Its clear Torch itself had doubts about the risk profile results when  it advised  Mr C. It made an 
adjustment to its advice  at the time  it reduced the risk level of its recommendation  to highest 
medium.  
Having reduced the risk level of its recommendation, Torch advised Mr C to invest in the Aggressive 
Model Portfolio.  Torch still regards this investment (as it was advertised,  rather  than as it was later 
implemented by the stockbroker)  as suitable for Mr C.
The stockbrokers factsheet for the Aggressive Model  Portfolio said it would primarily  invest in ETFs 
[Exchange Traded Funds], quality corporate  bonds, cash and other passive investments. The 
stockbroker used a risk scale of 1 to 10 and said it would anticipate the collection of funds within the 
portfolio to expose an investor to a level of risk in the range  of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation 
as at May 2015 was 90% international  equities  and 10% UK government  debt.
In my opinion,  an investment  subject  to this level of risk wasnt suitable for Mr C. He may have been 
prepared to accept some risk, as he said he could  tolerate  small to medium investment losses. But a 
portfolio invested by a discretionary fund manager,  intended to focus on ETFs and corporate bonds 
(with 90% actually invested in international equities), anticipating a risk level of 6-7 out of 10, was 
too risky for Mr C, given  his stated capacity for loss.  
Jointly with his wife, Mr C had £15,000 in cash/deposit and a further £15,000 in stocks and shares 
(plus another £30,000 investment which  appears to have been illiquid). Hed been a member  of his 
employers pension scheme for only about three years (though Torch collected no further  information 
on this). His personal pension plan was therefore the main investment he would have expected to rely 
on in retirement. Torch had identified  Mr Cs capacity for loss as low to medium.  Theres a clear 
tension here between a low to medium  tolerance for loss and a high medium risk exposure. Im 
therefore inclined to agree with the adjudicator   and, for that matter,  Torchs own original 
assessment  in that Mr C didnt have the capacity to absorb the losses that might arise from holding 
investments with the risk level of the Aggressive Model  Portfolio. 
For these  reasons, I think the level of risk of the investment portfolio  recommended by Torch was 
unsuitable for Mr C, and it represented a higher risk than he was in a position   or prepared  to take.
what alternatives were open  to Mr C to meet his objectives?
 
I agree with the adjudicator that Torch could  have  examined a transfer into a stakeholder plan as an 
alternative to a new SIPP. Torch seems not to have considered a stakeholder plan (or any other 
private pension plans) for reasons of inflexibility and limited fund choice.  But I dont think Mr C was 
seeking flexibility or a wide choice of investments. Hed previously been moved by his former adviser 
into the first SIPP, but I dont  believe  the transfer  tells us anything about Mr Cs own objectives  or risk 
appetite. Mr C intended  to take his pension  at age 65, so he expressed no desire  to access his funds 
early. And I think a stakeholder plan would have provided a sufficient selection  of investment funds for 
Mr C. 
But Torch has pointed out that the annual  administration  fee for the new SIPP plus the annual fund 
charge amounted to 0.98% in Mr Cs case and, on that basis,  Torch says a stakeholder  pension 
wouldnt have been a cheaper option.  There was also an annual fee of 0.75% for Torchs ongoing 
advice, but Torch  argues that it would  be wrong  to add this to the SIPP charges but not the 
stakeholder charges when comparing the two. Similarly, Torch says their one-off advice fee would 
have been charged irrespective of whether Mr C transferred to the new SIPP or a stakeholder 
pension.
Ref: DRN70157148Ive looked carefully at the arguments and evidence about the relative costs of the new SIPP and a 
stakeholder pension as a possible alternative.
Its common ground that staying with his first SIPP wasnt a viable option  for Mr C. He would therefore 
have transferred to a new pension of some kind. In these circumstances,  I think  its fair to ignore 
Torchs fees when comparing the new SIPP  with a stakeholder pension, because both would  have 
attracted those fees. Its true that Mr C could have chosen not to use Torchs  ongoing advice  service, 
saving 0.75%  of his pension per year, but he could have done  that with either  option.
Ive already concluded that Mr Cs pension funds should not have been invested in the Aggressive 
Model Portfolio.  Other portfolios offered by the SIPP  provider, including those  carrying lower risk, had 
about the same level of charges. But a suitable  stakeholder product  with similar charges may also 
have been available. Its therefore not clear from the available evidence  that either  option would  have 
had an advantage on costs.  In any event, Im not able to conclude that a stakeholder pension would 
definitely have been the lower cost option.
With either pension option, it would have been possible for Torch to have offered Mr C lower risk 
investments that would  have met his objectives. Whether Mr C was moved  to the new SIPP or to a 
stakeholder pension, its my view that his pension  should have been  put in investments that carried a 
lower risk than the Aggressive Model Portfolio. 
in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  Mr 
C to invest  his pension funds in the stockbrokers  Aggressive Model Portfolio.  My view is that, suitably 
advised, Mr C would have  invested in a medium  risk portfolio . 
fair compensation
The stockbroker was instructed to invest using  its Aggressive  Model Portfolio.  Mr C has complained 
that the stockbroker  didnt actually invest the funds in line with that instruction,  and that as a result  he 
suffered further losses. Torch too has said the majority of the investments the stockbroker made  bore 
no resemblance to Torchs  judgement of the type of investment which  was suited to Mr C. As I said 
above, theres  a separate claim  against the stockbroker and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I make 
no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the intended investment in the Aggressive  Model Portfolio, as 
recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable for Mr C in the first place. In my view,  Mr C should have  
invested in a medium risk fund (or portfolio of funds). So fair redress would be based on comparing 
the notional transfer value of such a plan with the notional  transfer value  of the new SIPP  if the 
Aggressive Model  Portfolio  had been managed  in line with its stated objectives and investment 
approach.
Its my view that a reasonable proxy  for the aims  of the Aggressive  Model Portfolio would  be the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Global Growth Index (Total Return).  This was the 
stockbrokers stated  benchmark for the Aggressive Model  Portfolio. I consider this to be a fair and 
reasonable method for determining likely  investment performance  had the portfolios stated objectives  
and investment strategy been followed by the stockbroker.
The adjudicator recommended that the benchmark  to be used  for the replacement  plan would have 
been a portfolio that mirrored the performance of the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total  Return  
Index.
The FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index  is a mix of diversified  indices  representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. At the time of the transfer (when it 
was called  the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income Total Return  Index) its asset allocation  was: 35% UK 
equities, 17.5% international equities, 32.5% bonds,  5% cash,  5% commercial  property and 5% 
Ref: DRN70157149hedge funds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider this broadly  reflects  the sort of return Mr C could have obtained  from investments  suited to 
his risk attitude.
I note that some of Mr Cs funds werent  transferred  to the stockbroker and instead remained in cash  
in the new SIPP. I also note that an additional  £907.71 was transferred  to the new SIPP in December 
2015 and £913.18 was immediately passed on to the stockbroker for investment.
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (A) of Mr Cs pension that was 
transferred to the SIPP in July 2015 and December 2015, had those funds been invested so 
as to perform in line with the FTSE  UK Private Investor Income Total Return  Index .
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (B) of the portions  of Mr Cs 
pension that were transferred in July 2015 and December 2015 to the stockbroker for 
investment, had the same portions been invested in the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock 
Market Global Growth  Index (Total Return).
Establish the actual  value  (C) of any cash amount in Mr Cs SIPP, as at the date of my final 
decision.
A is what Mr Cs pension funds would be worth  today  if hed transferred to a medium risk portfolio. 
The sum of B and C is what Mr Cs pension funds would be worth today  if, after the transfer to the 
new SIPP, the stockbroker  had managed  the model  portfolio in line with its stated objectives and 
investment approach. If A is larger than the sum of B and C, then Mr C has suffered a loss that should  
be compensated by Torch.  
Torch should therefore pay A  (B+C) to Mr C if the result of this calculation is positive (subject to 
allowance for charges and tax relief as described  below).
I should  point out that if the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market  Global Growth  Index (Total 
Return) has performed better than the FTSE  UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index,  then its 
likely the calculation will show  no loss. 
In this respect, my provisional decision differs from the adjudicators recommendation,  which  involved 
separate loss calculations for the invested and cash parts of the SIPP,  and made no provision  for 
offsetting a gain in one against a loss in the other. 
In this complaint, the result of the change in the calculation method may be that no compensation  is 
due to Mr C. I realise  this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but, in my view,  it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for losses from one part of the assessment  to be compensated while at the same  time 
gains in the other  part of the assessment were ignored.
If compensation is due, the amount should if possible  be paid into Mr Cs SIPP.  
The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation  
shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the SIPP isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should be 
paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction of 15%. The payment would 
otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits,  25% of which  would be tax free and the rest 
would have been taxed  according  to Mr Cs likely  income tax paying  status in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  And so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Ref: DRN701571410Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mr Cs acceptance of my final 
decision. If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest  at 8% from the date of my decision to the 
date of payment.
The adjudicator recommended that Torch should additionally  pay £300 to reflect the trouble  and upset  
caused to Mr C. I think thats fair and reasonable, given the events that have transpired and the 
uncertainty over his financial future which had its genesis in the unsuitable transfer to the new SIPP.
As a result  of these events, Mr C is eventually  likely to find himself  with some of his pension funds  on 
deposit in his SIPP, receiving no investment return and without an investment strategy. To put him, as 
closely as possible,  into the position he would be in now if he hadnt transferred  to the Aggressive 
Model Portfolio,  provision  should be made for advice to enable him to invest  the funds  appropriately. I 
cant tell with any accuracy how much it will cost, so I need to award a reasonable sum.  I think it would 
be fair and reasonable to award  up to £1,000 for this purpose. Im therefore  minded to require  Torch 
to pay Mr C up to £1,000, upon the production of an invoice if required, to enable  him to take advice 
elsewhere on how he should invest all his pension  funds.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint and require  Economic Financial  
Solutions IFA Limited to pay to Mr C the amounts set out above.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7015714