K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Claims Helpdesk Limited didnt provide her with the service she 
expected, and didnt properly explain to her how it applied its fee.
background
In December 2018 Miss C asked  Claims Helpdesk  to make a PPI claim on her behalf  to her 
bank. She said she did this because she didnt have  the time to deal with the bank herself. 
And she signed a client  authority form, also known as a Letter  of Authority. In January 2019 
she completed and returned to Claims Helpdesk  its PPI questionnaire along with another  
signed client authority  form.
Following the initial  call, Miss C signed  Claims Helpdesks client  authority form. It then 
submitted a subject  access request to Miss Cs bank to see what  accounts  she held that 
included PPI. After  the bank  had responded to this, Claims  Helpdesk sent Miss C a PPI 
questionnaire, which  she completed and returned.  She also signed another  letter of 
authority. Claims Helpdesk then submitted the PPI claim to her bank.
She said that Claims Helpdesk told her that she wouldnt need to do anything. She said it 
explained that it would contact her bank, and make  the claim.  She says that she received 
four or five calls from her bank, each lasting  from 30 minutes  to one hour.  She said that her 
bank told her it would only speak to her about the claim. She said that if shed known shed 
have to provide  information herself  to the bank she would have made  the claim herself.
She also said that Claims Helpdesk didnt tell her that it would calculate the fee on the gross 
amount of any PPI refund.
Claims Helpdesk said that it hadnt  done anything  wrong  it was the bank that had 
contacted her direct. And it said Miss C, like all customers, would  have been  told in the first 
call that the fees were 20% plus VAT of any additional reclaim.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He felt that the information  about the fee 
given in the terms and conditions was sufficiently clear and not misleading. He also felt that 
Claims Helpdesk wasnt responsible for the phone calls made  to her by the bank.
Miss C disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Miss C was contacted  by Claims Helpdesk in December 2018.  She said she was told by 
Claims Helpdesk that it would do all the work for her. Claims Helpdesk havent been  able to 
provide me with a copy of the recording of that call. The regulators rules in place at that time 
didnt require it to keep a copy of all calls. So I have  to rely on what  both parties  have told 
me, and make my decision  on what I believe is more  likely to have happened.
Im satisfied that Claims Helpdesk will have told Miss C that it would do all the work  on its 
behalf. This was important to her as she was in a busy role and didnt have the time to make  
Ref: DRN75767682the claim herself, or to spend time on the telephone  to her bank. And that is what  she 
expected. The issue I have to consider is whether or not this was misleading or untrue. The 
client authority she signed  in December  2018, and again in January  2019, included the 
following statement:
I understand that, in addition  to the present Letter of Authority I will need to provide 
further information when raising  an expression  of dis-satisfaction to the Lender, about  
the underlying  product(s), service(s) and where  known,  specific account number(s)  
being complained about. Doing so will enable the Lender to assess  and determine  
the complaint  a quickly and as effectively as possible.
And both Miss C and Claims  Helpdesk have  provided me with a copy of the Terms of 
Business. These include a section setting out Miss Cs obligations- these include:
The client shall:
Respond promptly to any requests for information  from the Company (including 
requests made via the Company by the vendor or Financial Ombudsman Service)  
that is material to the claim  being  made.
Miss C complains that she should have been  able to rely on what she was told on the 
telephone, not whats in the small print. But she did sign the terms to say that shed read and 
agreed to the terms. This was on the client authority which only contained five terms, the 
print was not so small it couldnt be easily read,  nor was it hidden  so it could be easily  
missed. She also had ample opportunity to read this document  as she signed  it twice  in 
December 2018,  and again  in January  2019 after PPI had been discovered.
So its clear to me that Miss C should  have been  aware that she would need  to provide 
further information at a point or points  in the future.  I can see that shes frustrated that she 
had to provide  information directly to the bank. This is unfortunate, but its likely that she 
would still have had to provide this information to Claims Helpdesk if her bank had done  
what it should have  done and contacted them.
The fact is that Claims  Helpdesk was acting as Miss Cs representative in her claim. 
Because of this she shouldnt have been  contacted by the bank directly  where  its clear  
that a representative is acting, the bank shouldve dealt with the representative, Claims 
Helpdesk. So I cant hold Claims Helpdesk responsible for the time and effort  Miss C spent 
on the phone to the bank.
Miss C also says that Claims Helpdesk didnt explain  that its fee would be based  on the 
gross amount. She says that she was told that the fee would be a percentage of the amount 
she received. The terms of business includes a section on fees.  It says:
The standard  fee is 20% + Value Added Tax (VAT)  of the gross  compensation 
recovered
She quotes from the example which refers  to cash in hand. She says this should  mean  the 
fee is based on that and not the gross amount. I disagree  there  are three  examples, 
describing different  situations, including where  the compensation  is not paid to the customer 
but used to reduce a balance or offset against arrears. This is a requirement placed on 
Claims Management Companies by the regulator.  So Im satisfied that the terms make it 
sufficiently clear that the fee is based  on the gross  award.
Ref: DRN75767683I can understand why Miss C is upset, as she spent time that she didnt have,  providing  
information to her bank  that she expected Claims Helpdesk  to do. But it was her bank that 
contacted her directly,  and she had the opportunity to tell it to contact Claims Helpdesk as 
her representative. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7576768