K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Greenlight  Credit Ltd lent to him irresponsibly because it should have 
been aware through the checks  it completed that he had a gambling  problem. 
background
Mr S applied for a log book loan with Greenlight  in September 2017.  He borrowed £4,000 
and agreed to repay this over 30 months with monthly payments of £366.67.
Mr S got in touch with Greenlight in July 2018;  he said he was struggling  to make his 
monthly payments  towards the agreement.  He said Greenlight had checked his bank 
statements but didnt  pick up that he was spending significant sums on gambling. Mr S says 
Greenlight lent to him irresponsibly because it should have picked up that he had a gambling 
problem. 
Greenlight didnt  respond to Mr Ss complaint within eight weeks  so he brought his complaint 
to this service.  Mr  S provided copies of his bank statements showing the size and frequency 
of his gambling transactions.
Greenlight originally said that Mr S had provided  it with an account statement from one bank 
(Ill call bank A). The statement he provided this service was from another bank (Ill call bank  
B). Greenlight originally said the statement for bank A was checked, which didnt cause it 
any concerns about lending  to Mr S.  Mr S said he provided the statements for both bank A 
and bank B to Greenlight. 
Greenlight went on to say Mr S had provided details of his income  and expenditure which 
was verified using his pay slips. It also says it completed a credit check  on him and as there 
were no concerns it wasnt necessary for it to complete any further  checks. It says the 
checks it completed were proportionate. 
The investigator that looked into the complaint thought it should be upheld. Hed seen that 
Greenlight had emailed Mr S with a list of documents that its agent would need to review 
before he could be given the loan, which included bank statements. The statements for bank 
A and B both showed  high frequency  of gambling  transactions.  He concluded that it was 
most likely Greenlight had reviewed Mr Ss bank statements which showed that between 
3 July and 2 September 2018  he made  119 card payments to gambling websites, to the 
value of £2,699.65. Greenlight  had recorded Mr Ss monthly income as £1,856.00.  
The investigator concluded Greenlight hadnt followed its own gambling procedures. He said 
it was irresponsible  for Greenlight to lend to Mr S in the circumstances. He said Mr S should  
only have to pay the capital of the loan back,  all interest  and charges should  be waived and 
any reference to the agreement  needed to be removed from his credit  file.  
Greenlight didnt  agree  with his assessment. It said that Mr S wasnt required to provide 
bank statements but rather any proof  of income  which could include bank statements. It said 
that Mr Ss income had been verified using his payslips and it used the information provided 
to determine he was eligible for the loan. 
It said that it would now be pursuing  Mr S for making a fraudulent application and record  his 
details on a national  fraud database.  It said it wouldnt update Mr Ss credit file unless 
instructed to do so by the Information  Commissioners Office.  It also explained that it would  
Ref: DRN71118172not put on hold repossession action while the matter was ongoing with this service and it 
would try and collect the car unless a final decision was issued preventing it from doing so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I got in touch with both 
sides to explain that I agree  with the investigators opinion that Mr S shouldnt have been  
given the loan. But to put things right I think Greenlight should do something different to what 
the investigator recommended. 
I explained I thought Greenlight  should also pay Mr S some compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  he was caused  by its collection  activities. The loan could be recorded on 
Mr Ss credit  file but any adverse information should  be removed. And that it wouldnt be fair 
to record Mr Ss details on a fraud database because of this loan application. 
 
Mr S accepted this but Greenlight didnt.  It said that I was placing too much onus on it to 
protect consumers and that Mr S had lied on his application. 
did Greenlight complete  sufficient checks before  agreeing to lend to Mr S?
The Financial Conduct Authority sets out regulations  for lenders  in its consumer credit 
sourcebook (known  as CONC). These  regulations require lenders to take reasonable 
steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments  
I agree  with Greenlights assertion that a person who applies  for a loan should be truthful  
about their financial  circumstances  and so a lender should  be entitled to accept what its 
customer tells it. However, CONC 5.3.3 says:
a firm should take adequate steps,  insofar  as it is reasonable and 
practicable to do so, to ensure that information (including information 
supplied by the customer)  on an application  for credit  is complete and 
correct.
And CONC 5.3.7R says:
A firm must not accept an application  for credit  under a regulated  credit  
agreement where  the firm knows or ought  reasonably to suspect that 
the customer has not been truthful  in completing the application in relation to 
information supplied  by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Finally, CONC  5.3.1(4)  also says:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness  
assessment or its assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customer's income  and expenditure,  on a 
statement of those matters made  by the customer;
Ref: DRN71118173Ive considered what Greenlight  has said in light of this.
Greenlight says the income and expenditure information Mr S submitted showed the loan 
was affordable. But I think that it placed far too much reliance on Mr Ss declaration of 
income and expenditure and I dont think it did enough to verify this information. In my view,  
there were signs that Greenlight should complete further checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr S. So it ought to have  done this. 
The income and expenditure details submitted at the time show Mr Ss income  as £1,856  
(net) and after deducting normal monthly expenditure, this left him with over £600  disposable  
income each month before taking out the loan. So this would  have left him with around £360  
disposable income once payments towards the loan had been taken into account,  which  on 
the face of it seems affordable.  
But the two months  wage  slips Mr S provided  show him earning £1,222.26  and £1,729.25  
(net). I havent seen anything which suggests  Greenlight questioned the difference  between  
these figures and what Mr S said during his application. Or that Mr S provided an 
explanation of why his stated regular income was larger than the wages he received. 
Greenlight says it also completed  a credit check. This involved reviewing Mr Ss credit score 
and completing  an affordability check.  I understand this compares his payments due each 
month, according to his credit file with his recorded  disposable income to see if the loan 
payments would be affordable. Greenlight  says it will only review the full credit  file if any 
concerns are raised in these checks. 
 
Mr S passed  Greenlights affordability check,  but his credit  score was 374.  The score is 
quite low suggesting that Mr S had at least some adverse information on his credit file, which 
wasnt consistent with what  was recorded  on the income and expenditure form.  There could 
have been a number of reasons why Mr Ss credit score was low. But I think Greenlight  
should have questioned why an applicant with only £145 stated loan and credit  card 
commitments and over £600 of disposable income  would  have  such  a low score.  So I think 
this should have been an indicator to Greenlight that it needed  to do more.  Its confirmed that 
the next step it would  take in such a situation  would be to review a full credit  report.  So I 
think this is what it should have done. 
 
Mr Ss credit  file shows that at the time Greenlight  agreed  the loan he had a number of 
outstanding debts. The majority of them were in arrears, defaulted,  subject to arrangements 
to pay or debt management  plans. These  entries are clear  indicators that Mr S wasnt  
meeting his financial commitments and dont match up with either the outstanding  debts 
recorded on the income and expenditure form, nor the disposable income it showed he had. 
Had Greenlight checked Mr Ss credit  file as I think it should  have, bearing in mind all the of 
the particular circumstances  in this case, I dont think  it would have agreed to lend to him. 
did Greenlight check Mr Ss bank statements?
I have seen an email sent to Mr S which lists a number of documents  he would need to 
provide to the agent before his loan could  be approved. One of which  was proof of income  
(2 months  bank statements).  And Mr S says he showed Greenlights  agent two sets of bank 
statements online. And he said no concerns were raised over the gambling transactions. 
Ref: DRN71118174But Greenlight now denies this, it says providing  statements isnt a requirement  as long as it 
can verify the applicants  income in another way. It says it didnt need to see the statements 
because it had already verified Mr Ss income  using his payslips. 
Greenlight has reviewed the statements now and it agrees they show  Mr S had a gambling 
problem at the time. It says had it seen them at the time it wouldnt have lent to Mr S.  
I cant say for sure whether Greenlight  did check the statements  at the time. But even if it 
didnt I think that Greenlight  should  have taken steps to ascertain  Mr Ss actual financial 
position bearing in mind  what  Ive said it ought to have been aware of. Greenlight  could have  
done this by requesting bank statements (especially as it does, in some circumstances 
appear to be part of its lending process), or by some other method. But, in my view,  what it 
needed to do was get a satisfactory explanation for the discrepancy between  Mr Ss 
declaration of income and expenditure and what its credit check  was suggesting.  
Greenlight told our investigator  it has a gambling  policy and will refuse  lending  if the size or 
frequency of gambling transactions doesnt meet its criteria. I cant  see that Greenlight  can 
follow its own policy and ensure its implemented without investigating such large 
discrepancies between what a consumer is declaring and what its checks are showing.  So I 
think it shouldnt have  lent until it investigated  this discrepancy. If it had done this it would 
have been aware  of the size and frequency of Mr Ss gambling and as it has acknowledged; 
it wouldnt have lent to him.  
Overall I dont think the checks Greenlight completed were  sufficient, particularly in light of 
the information they knew and had at hand.  If they had been  Greenlight wouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Mr S.  
what should Greenlight do to put things right?
Mr S has ended up paying interest and charges on a loan which  he shouldnt have been  
given.  I dont think Mr S should  be required to pay the interest  and charges incurred on the 
loan. 
I can see from the account statements that Mr S has paid back more  than the original capital 
borrowed. So I think Greenlight should refund him all the interest and charges applied to the 
loan and write off the outstanding loan balance. It should also pay 8% simple interest per 
year on the interest  and charges  that were paid (in other words any payments over and 
above the amount of money Mr S originally borrowed). 
I can see Greenlight has also been  chasing Mr S for arrears and told him it would repossess 
the car which he uses for work. I think this would have understandably  caused Mr S some 
distress, which wouldnt  have been  caused  had it not lent to him irresponsibly. So I think it 
should also pay him £150 compensation.   
what should Greenlight report to credit  reference  agencies about this agreement?
Greenlight has said it would be breaching  its obligation to record accurate information if it 
were to amend  whats recorded on Mr Ss credit  file. But I dont agree thats the case.  If 
Greenlight had completed the checks it should have  done then it would never  have lent to 
Ref: DRN71118175Mr S. I dont think  its reasonable for adverse information to be recorded as a result of that. 
So I think its fair Mr Ss credit file is amended  so theres no adverse information recorded  as 
a result of this loan.
After our investigator made his decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint, Greenlight told him that 
it would  report Mr S to the national  fraud  database, for making fraudulent loan applications.  
Consumer credit providers are required to carry out sufficient checks  to ensure that 
consumers can sustainably repay what they are being asked to commit to, before granting 
any credit.   This places  a higher requirement on them, rather than the applicant, during  the 
application process, to consider all the information available  to them.  I cant  see Greenlight  
did that. And I dont  think it would  be reasonable for Greenlight to report  anything to any 
fraud database regarding this loan agreement.   
I should also point  out Greenlight  knew this information previously and only took this 
decision once the complaint was upheld. This gives  the impression that it is in retaliation for 
Mr S having  made a complaint  to our service, rather  than a report  made  in good faith. It 
would be contrary to the statutory purpose of Part XVI of the Financial Services  and Markets 
Act 2000 for any FCA regulated firm to try to discourage  a consumer from bringing a 
complaint in such a manner, or to appear to do so. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Greenlight Credit  Ltd should:
1.refund  all the interest and charges on Mr Ss loan; and
2.add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.remove any adverse information  from Mr Ss credit  file in relation to this agreement;
4.return the log book  to Mr S; 
5.pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Greenlight Credit Ltd to take off tax from this interest. 
Greenlight Credit Ltd must give Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Christopher Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111817