K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the increases on their home insurance policy premiums, 
held with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
The policy was sold by Bank A. The policy was underwritten by two insurers,  but Aviva,  as 
the principle underwriter, is responsible  for answering Mr and Mrs Os concerns about the 
increases in their premiums.
background 
Mr and Mrs O took out a home insurance underwritten by Aviva when they took out a 
mortgage with Bank  A in 1997.
Mr and Mrs Os home  insurance was called Homecover Plus  and provided  buildings and 
contents insurance including cover for accidental damage.
The Homecover Plus policy was a block policy and was index-linked. 
A block policy is where an underwriter creates an insurance policy  for a group of 
consumers. In this case  Aviva created a home insurance policy  for Bank  A to offer its 
consumers taking out mortgages. The policy covered the same things for all consumers, for 
example accidental damage  to contents,  and the cover couldnt  be amended or changed by 
consumers.
In this case, a home insurance policy that is index linked, meant the amount it covered went  
up and down over time alongside an index that tracked the change  in the cost of rebuilding 
houses.
The earliest known  premium is from 2001 and shows Mr and Mrs O were  paying around 
£500 (excluding Insurance Premium Tax  IPT).
Mr and Mrs O paid for the policy on a monthly basis, but it automatically  renewed each year.  
Mr and Mrs O didnt speak with Bank A or Aviva  about the cost of the insurance at renewal 
and it just renewed automatically.  The policys cost increased over the years. In 
February 2017, Mr and Mrs O received the renewal and the annual  premium was to be 
£1,318.32 (including IPT).
Unhappy with the cost, Mr and Mrs O obtained an alternative quote for home insurance for 
£431.92. Mr and Mrs O subsequently cancelled their policy.
Because of the difference in price  between the two policies, Mr and Mrs O complained to 
Bank A. They considered they had been treated unfairly and had been  overcharged for 
20 years.
Bank A reviewed Mr and Mrs Os concerns. Broadly summarised it said the premiums 
Mr and Mrs O were charged  over the years were correct and were in line with the specific  
policy they held.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs O referred the complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN76087912While the complaint was with our service, the complaint was passed to Aviva  and it offered 
to refund some of the cost of the policy. 
It explained that as Mr and Mrs Os policy was index-linked, the sum insured  was adjusted 
each year to cover the cost of rebuilding the property.  The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which Aviva then used to gauge  
what the likely cost to rebuild the property would be and in turn set the price. 
Aviva, having reviewed  the premiums over the years,  explained there were times when 
Mr and Mrs Os premium increased  above the index-linked rate. So its offer was to work  out 
what the premium would have been  if it had increased alongside the index and refund the 
difference to Mr and Mrs O whenever this happened. 
In total it worked  out that it had charged  Mr and Mrs O an extra £262.42  over the years   so 
it offered to give that back. And it offered an additional £122.50 to compensate  Mr and Mrs O 
for being out of pocket (set at 8% simple  interest  per year until payment is made).
Aviva also offered an additional £100  as compensation for the trouble Mr and Mrs O had 
been caused. So Avivas total offer to Mr and Mrs O came  to £484.92.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas offer was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed.  Given the price they obtained for a new policy  they still considered 
they had been overcharged  for 20 years  and want Aviva to pay them the difference.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs O fairly throughout the time they held 
their insurance policy.
And here, as Aviva has made  an offer, I need  to consider whether that is enough to put right 
what might  have gone wrong.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, so Id like to explain why.
The earliest known  premium for Mr and Mrs Os policy  was £490 in 2001.  By 2017 the 
insurance was to cost around £1,300 for the year. As Mr and Mrs Os policy  did increase in 
cost over the years  Ive looked to see what happened.
Ref: DRN76087913Mr and Mrs Os policy automatically renewed each year. With automatic renewals  there is a 
chance that if a consumer  doesnt  engage  with the renewal process or shop around, they 
can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt engage over the years, but Aviva says the cost increased due to the 
type of policy Mr and Mrs O held and not because  they werent engaging with the renewals 
each year.
Mr and Mrs Os policy was a block policy. This meant Aviva  grouped  together a number of 
policy holders (in this case  those who took out insurance through  Bank A) and created an 
insurance policy that it provided  to these customers.  
As the policy was created in a block it provided  all the consumers the same level of cover. It 
provided buildings and contents insurance that also included accidental damage cover  - 
amongst other things.  The policy couldnt be amended. So, for example, the accidental 
damage cover couldnt be removed,  or the limits and excesses couldnt be changed  by 
consumers. Providing cover this way meant that Aviva didnt have to manually underwrite 
each individual  policy  instead, the policyholders properties were automatically  rated  using 
a buildings  sum insured rate and location. The buildings sum insured rate was index-linked.
Home insurance that is index-linked means  that the sums insured and some  of the policy  
limits are adjusted each year to make sure they remain sufficient to cover  the possible costs  
of a claim  such as the full cost of rebuilding a consumers property. 
There are various factors taken into account with the cost of rebuilding  a property,  such as 
the increasing cost of building materials, or cost of labour. The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors (RICS) calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which  Aviva  used to gauge 
what a consumers property is likely  to cost to be rebuilt. In essence  the sums  insured are 
linked to that index  giving the term index-linked.
 
So this means  the renewal cost of an index-linked policy can also be increased to pay for the 
increased level of cover.  If it is deemed that the sum insured needs to go up to reflect  the 
amount it will cost for a property to be rebuilt  then it follows  that the premium  will go up. 
The premium is unlikely  to ever stay static.  
With Mr and Mrs Os policy, this is what happened. It increased in most years as the sums 
insured increased  each  year. Aviva  says the increases applied  were in line with the RICSs 
House Rebuilding Cost Index. 
But Aviva says there were  times when the premium increased above the index-linked  rate 
and because of this it offered to refund the overpayments in any years where this happened.  
Given the type of policy  Mr and Mrs O had, this seems  fair.
Ref: DRN76087914I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O obtained alternative  insurance for a lot less. And I note 
theyve also provided  a further quote they received  in 2018 in which  they were offered  
insurance for around £130. Given the difference in cost I can see why Mr and Mrs O are 
unhappy. But insurance practices  have  moved on over the years. 
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers  aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount  over the following years.  Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover   so buildings and contents with or without accidental 
damage, and consumers  can also choose  what limits and excesses they wish to have. But 
the policy they took out with Bank A was very comprehensive and had a comparatively high 
level of cover.
These things combined, mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly  different  in price. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based  on that perceived risk.
So while Mr and Mrs O have obtained a policy  for far less now,  for the reasons explained 
above, I dont  think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent  policy with the policy 
taken and held for many  years with Aviva.
I also am mindful that Aviva had to treat Mr and Mrs O fairly  in respect of the policy  they 
held.
Aviva, throughout the duration Mr and Mrs O held their policy,  wasnt  obligated to either 
automatically switch Mr and Mrs O to another policy or tell them  about any alternative 
products it offered. 
There were new rules  introduced by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority,  in 2017 
that said that insurers should, in the renewal invitation, encourage their customers  to shop 
around if theyve had their policy for a number of years. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O feel very strongly that they werent treated fairly. And I do 
understand why they feel this way. Businesses  treating their customers  fairly  is an 
overarching principle that they must have in mind in all dealing with consumers. 
But in this case, I think Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs O fairly. It has treated them the same 
as any other  policyholder with the same  policy. And in its role as an insurer, I dont think it 
would be fair to say Aviva  should need to make sure someone (or all of its policyholders) has 
the cheapest policy  available.  
Put simply, Mr and Mrs O took out Avivas  policy. It didnt have to make  sure Mr and Mrs O 
got the best deal year on year.  Aviva  needed  to make sure it treated them fairly in respect  
of the policy  they held and not increase the costs unfairly. 
Ref: DRN76087915From what  Ive seen the increases in Mr and Mrs Os premiums were  in accordance with the 
type of policy they had  an index-linked  policy that also had set, comprehensive cover in 
place. There were  risk related reasons for the increases and the increases werent simply 
because Mr and Mrs O werent engaging  with their renewal.
And where  there were increases beyond the index-linked increase, Aviva  has offered to 
refund those overpayments  which  seems  fair.
Mr and Mrs O say that, as their house had been  underpinned, they felt they had to stay with 
insurance provided through Bank A. Insurance  policies often exclude cover  to new 
customers for things that have happened  in the past. That means Mr and Mrs O might find it 
difficult to get cover  if they moved  to another insurer for any claims they made to Aviva about  
the underpinning. But I cant  see that Mr and Mrs O ever made a claim to Aviva  about the 
underpinning of their home.
If I thought Aviva had increased their policy costs just because of the underpinning, I might 
not think that was fair. But as set out above, I think there were other reasons why the 
premiums increased in the way they did. And I cant see that there  was ever any indication in 
the renewal documents that they should stay with their current insurers  to ensure they 
continued to be covered  for this issue. So although Mr and Mrs O might  have  believed  they 
needed to maintain this policy I dont think Aviva did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs O have also pointed to a story  in the media concerning  another consumer who 
got a larger  refund from their insurer, which they feel is a similar  complaint  to their own. But I 
consider each complaint on its own merits and having considered all of the evidence  and 
circumstances of this complaint, I feel Avivas offer is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mr and Mrs Os home  insurance policy is fair.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited, should Mr and Mrs O accept the decision, to update the 
compensation amount to reflect the additional  time Mr and Mrs O have been out of pocket.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to 
Mr and Mrs O is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7608791