K822xComplaint
Mr W has complained about an invoice for damage  charges, which  PSA Finance UK Limited 
sent him.
Background 
Mr W leased a Peugeot car with PSA.
The hire agreement came  to an end on 20 June 2018. PSA instructed Manheim to carry out 
an inspection. Subsequently,  PSA sent him an invoice for £721  for damage charges. 
Some of the charges were for poor repair work carried out on Mr Ws car. His car was 
involved in an accident in October  2017,  but the insurance company didnt use an approved 
Peugeot repairer  to fix the damage. It used  its own preferred repairer.
Mr W didnt think  all the charges were fair, so he complained to PSA. He didnt pay and the 
account fell into arrears. PSA instructed an external debt collector  to collect the payment.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to this service.  He said 
PSA is charging him for damages it cant evidence and he believes it is inflating the charges 
just because the car was repaired by a non-approved repairer. He also believes that PSA 
registered a negative marker on his credit file. He wants  PSA to reduce the charges  by £486 
and remove any negative  information from his credit file.
An investigator looked into his complaint. She negotiated with PSA for one charge to be 
removed and for a further reduction  of £61. PSA agreed to reduce the invoice by £183.  
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators view. He says PSA hasnt proven the damages. And 
he didnt agree with the investigators description of the damages to the car.
Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view setting out the facts,  the terms and conditions  and 
relevant industry  standards. As Mr W and PSA have read the investigators  view, Im not 
going to repeat the details  here. I can assure both, however, that I have read the terms and 
conditions and industry standards. Im satisfied  that PSA were  entitled to charge for 
damages which were not caused by wear and tear.
Besides, Mr W isnt disputing charges for wear  and tear. His complaint is that some of the 
damages dont meet  the BVRLA test. In particular,  the damage  to A Post R, Front Wing R, 
Front Bumper and Front  Door R. 
The BVRLA guidelines state that obvious evidence  of poor repair, such as flaking paint,
preparation marks, paint  contamination,  rippled finish and poorly matched paint, is not
acceptable. Ive looked at the photographic evidence to assess  whether the description of 
the damages meet the BVRLA standards. This is what I think of the descriptions.
Ref: DRN72693182A Post R
PSA has agreed to remove this charge from the invoice. The charge was £122.  This should 
now be deducted.
Front Wing R
The report  says there is dirt in the paint and poor repair. The investigator referred to a 
rippled finish in the paintwork. Unfortunately, I am in the difficult  position of trying to second  
guess the inspection by looking at copies  of the photographic evidence. Looking  at the 
photos, I cant see dirt or a rippled finish. Im not satisfied that the damage is obvious  or that 
PSA has provided adequate proof of this damage. The charge for this damage  was £122. I 
consider that this should be deducted from the invoice.
Front bumper
The report  refers to dull paint. I can see a dimpled or rippled effect  in the paintwork. Its not 
smooth. This is obvious  looking at the photo.  Im satisfied this meets  the BVRLA test.
Front door R
The report  refers to dirt in paint and poor repairs. Again,  the photographic evidence  isnt 
crystal clear. I can see chips in the paint but, equally, the door is dirty generally.
PSA has agreed to reduce  the damage  charge  for this area by 50% to £61. I agree this is a 
fair reflection for the damage.
According to my calculations, Im asking PSA to deduct a total of £305 from the invoice, 
leaving a total of £416 to pay. I think this is a fair and reasonable sum for the total damages 
charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am partially upholding this complaint.
I am asking  PSA Finance  UK Limited  to reduce the invoice to £416 and to remove any 
negative markers on Mr Ws credit  files relating to this account and make any necessary 
changes resulting from this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7269318