K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  because  Lloyds Bank  PLC offered them a personal loan, instead
of a further advance on their mortgage. This meant  they paid a much higher rate of interest.
When they found out, they paid off the personal loan and took a further advance on their
mortgage  but they were charged  an early settlement charge as well. And as the purpose of
the further advance then counted as debt  consolidation  instead of home improvements,
they could only have a short term for the further  advance.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  with Lloyds. In June  2018, they went into a Lloyds  branch  to
talk about borrowing £34,000 for home  improvements.  The advisor told them that a branch
couldnt set this up in joint names, so theyd have to arrange this by phone.  She gave them
the phone  number, so Mr and Mrs H applied by phone for an unsecured personal loan over
seven years at an interest rate of 9.7%  APR. The new personal loan account was opened  on
22 June.
In November, Mr and Mrs H went into the branch to open an account  for their new baby son.
While they were there, the Lloyds employee asked  why theyd taken out a personal loan
instead of a further advance on the mortgage,  because a further advance  would  have been
much cheaper for them. The replied  that no-one  had told them they could borrow the money
on their mortgage. The branch  adviser  arranged a mortgage appointment for them.
In due course, the mortgage advisor  set up a mortgage further advance for them, with which 
they paid off the personal loan. But there was provision in the terms and conditions  for an 
early settlement charge on the personal loan too. And because  the purpose  of the further  
advance then counted as debt consolidation instead of home  improvements, they could 
only have a 10 year term for the further  advance, instead of spreading  it over the whole of 
the rest of their mortgage term.
Mr and Mrs H complained.
Lloyds didnt uphold  their complaint. It said its branch staff werent  qualified  financial
advisers. It had no notes about what had been said at the initial appointment in June 2018,  
and it was up to the customers  to make their own financial decisions. It also said there was
no guarantee any request for a further  advance would have been accepted  anyway.
Mr and Mrs H paid off their personal loan with the money from the further advance. But they
werent satisfied with Lloyds response to their complaint, and complained  to this service.
They pointed out that there was a considerable different between the repayments on the 
personal loan and further advance. If theyd had the further advance to start with, they 
thought theyd have saved around  £300 a month  during the time they had the personal loan.
And because the eventual  further advance had been  categorised  as debt consolidation,  the 
shorter term meant they were paying  higher monthly  payments.
Mr and Mrs H also pointed out that Lloyds hadnt  trained its staff properly in the first branch.
As soon  as theyd mentioned it at the second  branch,  the branch had picked it up 
straightaway and said they should  have had the further advance.
Ref: DRN79321902Our investigator initially upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. But Lloyds then sent in further 
evidence, saying that as both Mr and Mrs H had had mortgages for some years, they should  
have known that at the first branch they should  have asked to speak to a mortgage  adviser.
So the investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to look at their complaint.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I recognised that the personal  loan was sold to Mr and Mrs H on whats called a non-
advised basis. This means that Lloyds hadnt  recommended it, and it was up to the
consumers to make their own decision about  whether or not the product  was right for them.
But lenders  do have to ensure that customers have all the available  information they need, in
order to make an informed decision. This responsibility is recognised in Lloyds own internal
notes when it was considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. So I considered  whether or
not Mr and Mrs H were  given sufficient information  about their options in June 2018.
Mr and Mrs Hs evidence about what happened  had been clear and consistent. There were 
no branch notes from that initial meeting.  I recognised  that the application was actually made 
by phone, where its normally  entirely up to the customer to take their own decision 
(execution only). I said it was disappointing that Lloyds hadnt  been able to provide a call 
recording for that call. But I noted that Lloyds  had changed its processes so that taking  a 
personal loan on a joint basis  which Mr and Mrs H wanted  could no longer be done in a 
branch. So Mr and Mrs Hs evidence  that they were told at the end of the branch 
appointment, that theyd have to apply  by phone, was consistent with the banks rules  at the 
time. I accepted Mr and Mrs Hs account of what happened in their appointment at the 
branch.
I also considered that Mr and Mrs H would have taken the further advance  instead of the
personal loan if they had indeed been  given all the information. The interest rates  were  very
different. The personal loan which  they took in June had an interest rate of 9.7%. Mr and Mrs 
H said the further advance they later took was at a rate of 1.9%, but Lloyds said it was 
actually 2.66%. Either way, there was a significant  difference. While interest rates  might  
have changed  slightly in this period, I considered the difference was such that it was very 
unlikely that most customers  would  have chosen  the personal loan option  if given  all the 
facts.
I noted that Lloyds final response  to Mr and Mrs H said that there was no guarantee theyd
have been accepted for a further advance. I didnt accept this. They  were  accepted,  only a
few months later with no apparent changes to their circumstances. And as they were
accepted for the higher  monthly repayments  of the personal loan, I considered  it was most 
unlikely that they wouldnt have been  accepted for the much lower  monthly repayments  of a 
further advance.
Lloyds also pointed out that Mr and Mrs H did sign to accept the terms of the personal loan, 
which included the early settlement charge. I didnt consider this was relevant to these 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs H subsequently found  out that they hadnt been given all the 
Ref: DRN79321903information to make an informed choice, reasoned decision, and that they could have had 
much better terms from the same lender. What Mr and Mrs H were saying wasnt that they 
didnt know there was an early settlement charge, but that the whole package of the 
personal loan including  the early  settlement charge,  wasnt  what they would  have taken if 
theyd been given all the information.
Lloyds argued  that Mr and Mrs H had had mortgages before, and should have known
that they had to ask for a mortgage adviser.  I didnt accept this. Even  on a non-advised 
basis, its for the lender to ensure customers have all the information  they need,  and I didnt
consider that having had mortgages before  exempted Lloyds from this duty. And it doesnt
follow that having had mortgages  before  means  that customers  would automatically know
which team  within  a bank  would  be the best qualified to deal with their needs. I also noted 
that Lloyds own notes said it would have been  normal practice for the branch to make  them
aware of the further advance option as well as the personal loan.
So I considered that Lloyds  acted  unfairly  towards Mr and Mrs H when it failed to provide 
them with adequate information  on which to base  their decision in June 2018.
When considering  compensation, we aim to put a consumer back  in the position theyd have
been in if the events  hadnt happened. So I provisionally found that Lloyds should:
- refund the difference  between  the interest portion of the monthly payments Mr and 
Mrs H paid towards the personal loan, and what they would have paid in interest if 
theyd had the money as a further  advance;
- refund the early  settlement  charge,  which they wouldnt have  had to pay if theyd 
been told about the further  advance option in June  2018. As this sum appeared to 
have been consolidated into the further  advance, the refund should be made  to the 
further advance  account and credited as at the date of advance. This will mean  any 
interest charged on that portion of the further advance should  be refunded to Mr and 
Mrs H;
- pay Mr and Mrs H interest on the refunded interest payments, from the dates they 
were debited  to the date of settlement. The interest  should  be calculated  at 8% 
simple. If Lloyds  believes it is required  to deduct income tax from the interest  
awarded, it should do so, and provide  Mr and Mrs H with relevant documentation for 
HMRC purposes.
I noted that Mr and Mrs H had also complained that they were only able to have the
replacement further  advance over 10 years, and not over the whole term of the mortgage,
because it was to repay  the personal loan and therefore counted  as debt consolidation. I
could understand  why they were frustrated  about  this. And Lloyds internal notes show  that 
the mortgage adviser recorded that this was why the further  advance  could only be done 
over 10 years. But I pointed out that in fact, its financially much better for Mr and Mrs H to 
pay off the further  advance  over a shorter period, because theyd pay less interest overall. I 
also noted that Mr and Mrs H chose to take the personal loan out over 7 years,  so it would 
appear that paying off the lending over a shorter term may have been important to them  at 
the time they first arranged borrowing.
I recognised, however,  that Mr and Mrs H have a young child,  and paying  less interest in the
long term might matter less to them than having payments which are as low as possible. I 
explained that I was willing to order Lloyds  to recalculate the further  advance  over the rest of 
the mortgage term, but I asked Mr and Mrs H to consider this carefully  and respond to me 
Ref: DRN79321904with their preference by the date for responses  to this provisional decision.  I said they might 
wish to take financial advice on this.
I also considered compensation for distress  and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs H were
shocked and distressed  when they found out that they hadnt  been given all the information
they needed. They believed the June adviser pushed them towards  a personal loan, which
wasnt in their interests. They were also upset  that Lloyds response was that they should
have known they needed a further  advance instead. So I considered  Lloyds should also pay
Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the provisional decision and said they were happy  to get a resolution 
to their complaint.  They said they had carefully considered the offer of having  the loan over 
the full term of the mortgage, but had decided to keep the payments  as they are in order to 
pay it off over the ten year term as initially agreed. Mr and Mrs H also confirmed that their 
December 2018  further advance offer was 2.66%  not 1.9%.
Lloyds didnt agree  with the provisional decision:
-It sent a copy of the further advance offer to show that the rate Mr and Mrs H were  
offered in December  2018 was 2.66%, not 1.9%;
-It also said that it hadnt applied an early repayment charge in this particular case;
-Lloyds said that Mr and Mrs H had had personal  loans before, and it asked why 
theyd signed  the loan agreement  in June 2018  if it hadnt met their needs  at the time.
For the purposes of compensation  calculation,  I also asked Lloyds what  further  advance  
rates Mr and Mrs H would  have qualified for in June 2018, taking  into account loan-to-value 
and other  factors.  Lloyds said it couldnt say, and that a further advance might  not have been  
available at that time. And it said many  factors  would have been taken into consideration 
such as loan-to-value  of the property.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded that the principles of my provisional decision were  
wrong. Essentially,  Mr and Mrs H were entitled  to have all the available information they 
need to make an informed  decision,  even on a non-advised sale.  And the fact that theyd 
had previous loans doesnt change that. I dont consider Mr and Mrs H were  given sufficient  
information about their options in June 2018.
Ive also considered Lloyds argument  that a further  advance might not have been available  
to Mr and Mrs H in June  2018. But I dont consider thats likely. They were granted  a 
personal loan at the much higher rate, so a lower-cost  further advance  would be more likely  
to be affordable. And only a few months later, the bank did offer them a further advance. 
I have, however, looked again at compensation. I have checked the account records  for Mr 
and Mrs Hs personal loan, and as Lloyds said, there is no indication that an ERC was paid. 
The bank had the power to charge under  the terms and conditions, which an adviser would 
Ref: DRN79321905properly have told Mr and Mrs H. But as no ERC was actually charged, there  is no ERC still 
to be repaid.
I also note that Mr and Mrs H have decided to keep their further advance payments over a 
ten year term, in order to pay it off more quickly and therefore ultimately more cheaply.
So this means  that three elements of the compensation remain, which  Ive set out again 
below. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- refund the difference  between  the interest portion of the monthly payments Mr and 
Mrs H paid towards the personal loan, and what they would have paid in interest 
each month if theyd had the money as a further advance;
- pay Mr and Mrs H interest on the refunded interest payments, from the dates they 
were debited  to the date of settlement. The interest  should  be calculated  at 8% 
simple. If Lloyds  believes it is required  to deduct income tax from the interest  
awarded, it should do so, and provide  Mr and Mrs H with relevant documentation for 
HMRC purposes.
- pay Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7932190