K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 with a 
credit card. Mr E says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Es postal  application form from 2006. In it, customers had to tick a 
Yes box to indicate  they wanted  to apply for PPI, or a No box to indicate  they didnt want it. 
On Mr Es form the Yes box has been  ticked  and hes signed the form. Mr E was then sent a 
credit agreement. In the PPI section, customers had the option  to again tick a box that said,  
I wish to purchase Optional Capital  One Payment Protection Insurance.  On Mr Es form, 
the box has been ticked and he has signed  beneath  this statement to confirm  his selection in 
addition to signing a separate  section for the card itself. 
So based  on what Ive seen, although Ive thought  carefully about Mr E saying he wasnt 
aware the PPI was optional, I think Capital One made it clear  Mr E didnt  have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr E so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr E got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt  look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.
Mr E told us he had no sick pay provided  by his employer and no other means to help him 
make his repayments should he have  found himself  unexpectedly out of work.  And this 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if he was unable  to work because  of illness or 
injury. And it also wouldve provided up to 12 months of cover  for unemployment. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr E, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN72725512To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7272551