K820x#14complaint
Mr S says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ss credit  card account when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ss application for the credit card. Theres  a box to tick next to 
the words Please enrol me in the American  Express Credit  Card Repayment 
Protection Plan.... This was a form of PPI. Mr S ticked the box. He could have left it 
blank if he didnt  want the PPI. So I think Amex gave Mr S a choice about  whether to 
take the PPI. And I think he chose to take it  although I can understand why he may 
no longer remember  this, so many  years later.
 Mr S says Amex advised him to take out the PPI. He originally told us he applied for 
the PPI by post. But in response  to the adjudicators view of the complaint, Mr S told us 
he had, in fact, applied for the card over the phone,  and was told he must have the PPI 
because it was good  for him. 
 Amex says Mr S applied for the credit  card and PPI by post. And it looks to me as if the 
application form that Mr S completed  was a mailshot. So Im satisfied, on balance, that 
this was a postal application. And I think its unlikely that Mr S had any direct contact 
with Amexs employees when he applied for the card.  So I dont think Amex  
recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means  it didnt  have  to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it did have  a responsibility to give Mr S enough  information to enable him to 
decide for himself  whether he wanted  the cover.
 Mr S has told us hed have been  entitled to between three  and six months sick pay 
from his employer. He says hed also have been entitled to redundancy pay. But the 
policy would  have helped with Mr Ss monthly credit card repayments  for up to 
24 months per successful claim for accident,  sickness  or unemployment.  So it would 
potentially have paid out for significantly longer  than Mr S has told us hed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, the policy would  have paid out in addition  to any 
payments Mr S received  from his employer.  So he could  have used those to meet 
other day-to-day  expenses. 
Ref: DRN74053232 I acknowledge  that Mr S has told us he had other insurance  in place at the time. But 
although weve asked, hes not provided any details of what that insurance covered. So 
Im unable to conclude that it meant  he didnt need  the PPI. And Mr S has told us he 
didnt have any savings he could have relied  on if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his 
job. So taking everything  into account,  I think the PPI could  have been  useful  for him.
 Its possible the information Amex gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But Mr S chose to take out the policy. So it looks as if he wanted  this type 
of cover, even if hes understandably  forgotten  that now.  Based  on what hes told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  he wasnt affected  by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover (for example,  provisions  about unusual employment  arrangements,  
or existing medical  conditions).  The policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. And since Mr S was paying for it monthly,  he could have  cancelled  it at any 
time with no further  cost, as I see that he did, in fact, do in 2007.
 So taking everything into account,  I think it unlikely Mr S would have  made a different  
decision even if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ss comments, including  what  hes said about having  felt 
pressured into taking  the policy. Mr S has explained that this was because it was implied 
that without it there would be no finance . But Ive explained that Im satisfied  it would have 
been clear from the application form that Mr S had a choice about whether to take the PPI. 
And I dont  think there was anything to suggest that taking it would affect  the chances of his 
application being accepted. And as Ive commented  above, since Im satisfied that Mr S 
applied for the card by post, I think  its unlikely  that he had any direct contact with Amexs  
staff about the application. So I think its unlikely that pressure was put on Mr S to take the 
PPI. And my conclusion  remains that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
This means  that Amex doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Amex  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Amex  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because Amex  didnt  tell Mr S, that 
was unfair.
To put that right,  Amex has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN74053233my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7405323