K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Nationwide Building Society allowed a number of branch 
withdrawals from their savings account  between January and March 2017. They didnt 
realise their savings of £6,500 had been taken from the account until around  two years later, 
when the passbook was updated. 
background
Nationwide says that the account was opened  many years ago with the Portman Building 
Society, now part of Nationwide. As well as Mr and Mrs M, their son was also an account  
holder. His name had been added about  three  years  after the account was opened.
Between January and April 2017 a number of cash withdrawals were made from the 
account. Nationwides records indicate  that they were all made in branch, without  the 
accounts passbook. Mr and Mrs M said they didnt recognise them. They  say too that 
Nationwide shouldnt have allowed  the withdrawals without the passbook and that they 
should have been alerted to the unusual pattern of account use. 
Nationwide said that it was satisfied the withdrawals had been  properly authorised.  It wasnt 
necessary for the passbook to be present, as long as the person making the withdrawals 
was able to pass  security checks. 
Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators  considered it. 
She noted that Mr and Mrs Ms son hadnt  joined the complaint, even though he was an 
account holder,  and that Nationwide therefore  had only provided limited  information  
because of concerns  about confidentiality and data protection. Our investigator  sought 
information from Mr and Mrs Ms son, but wasnt able to obtain  anything from him that was 
directly relevant to the complaint. 
Based on the information she did have, however, the investigator  concluded  that, of 33 
disputed withdrawals, five had been made by Mrs M and 28 by Mr and Mrs Ms son. Since  
all the disputed withdrawals had been  made by people authorised  to make them, she didnt 
recommend that Nationwide  refund  them. She also noted that the account terms allowed any 
account holder  on their own to make withdrawals and said that the passbook  was not 
needed. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the investigators  assessment  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill discuss first of all the fact that this service only has the consent of two account holders to 
consider the complaint. If, as Mr and Mrs M say, Nationwide has allowed  withdrawals  from 
the account without proper authority, all three account holders have lost out  because, as 
between Nationwide  and the account  holders,  all three are entitled to the money in the 
account. That means that all three could bring  a complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN76883432We can decline to consider a complaint where we dont have the consent of all the people 
who could bring  a complaint. In this case, however, I think  its appropriate  that I should 
consider this complaint, even though I dont have the consent of all three account holders. 
As Ive indicated, our investigator sought information from Mr and Mrs Ms son. She wasnt 
able to obtain any meaningful information from him, however. In my view though, its 
significant that he hasnt joined in the complaint or even said that he didnt make  the 
withdrawals. I note that Nationwides case is that he was responsible for most of the 
disputed withdrawals. If thats correct, it would  of course be inconsistent for him to join the 
complaint; he would, in effect, be complaining about his own actions. 
The information I do have  indicates that the withdrawals were, as the investigator noted,  
made by Mrs M and her son. It may be that one or other of them simply forgot  about those 
withdrawals or that they were made without the knowledge of the other account holders. I 
am satisfied  however that they were made by account holders who were entitled  to make 
them. 
I note that Nationwide didnt alert Mr and Mrs M to the withdrawals, but I dont believe they 
were under any obligation to do so. Banks and building societies do of course  have fraud 
prevention systems in place, and sometimes they will identify transactions that are unusual  
or out of character.  Primarily, though,  those  systems  are designed to ensure that people  
using the account have  the authority to do so. I cant properly say therefore that Nationwide  
should have alerted all three account  holders to the withdrawals here. 
I agree  with the investigator too that Nationwide could release funds without the passbook.  
Whatever Mr and Mrs M may have  been told in the past, the account terms (which  will have 
changed from time to time)  allowed that. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  require Nationwide Building Society to take any further  steps to 
resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7688343