K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) treated her unfairly by collecting 
payments and charges from her account  even though she was suffering financial hardship 
through ill health.
 
background
Ms G opened a credit card account with Capital One in June 2017 with a credit limit of £200. 
The account  terms set out the payments that Capital One expected Ms G to make and the 
charges that it could  apply to the account.
Ms G contacted Capital  One on at least a couple of occasions from August 2017 to discuss 
problems on her account.  
Ms G says that she started to struggle financially in early 2018  due to changes in her 
circumstances. Capital  One wrote to her and said that she wouldnt be able to use her credit 
card until she was back within her credit limit and had paid her missed  payments. It added 
late payment fees to Ms Gs account.
Ms G complained to Capital One towards the end of January 2018 about  the charges  and to 
ask why her balance wasnt reducing. Capital One agreed to refund  late payment fees as a 
gesture of goodwill.
In its final response letter  (FRL), Capital One said that had it known more  about  Ms Gs 
personal situation, it might have  been able to offer further support.  And whilst it had added  
late payment fees in line with the account  terms, it had since refunded them.
Ms G wasnt  happy with Capital Ones FRL and complained to our service in early  2019. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Capital One had charged fees and 
interest to Ms Gs account in line with its terms. The investigator also noted that Capital One 
wasnt initially aware of Ms Gs financial difficulties, so was satisfied that its refund of fees 
was a reasonable offer of help. 
Ms G didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
After submitting her complaint to us, Ms G said that shed  agreed a payment plan with 
Capital One before 2018 and, despite keeping to it, her balance  hadnt reduced.  Ms G thinks 
Capital One has broken  its agreement with her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G thinks Capital  One should refund  all charges and payments on her account  because of 
the financial difficulty she faced. And whilst she says her difficulties became worse around 
2018 due to her health problems, shes also told us that Capital One knew  about her 
situation much earlier.  
Ref: DRN72075082So, Ive thought about whether Capital Ones actions were  reasonable in light of what its 
likely to have known  of Ms Gs financial situation. 
Ms G says that she agreed  a payment plan with Capital One over the phone before  2018. 
And Capital  One says that theres never  been a payment plan on Ms Gs account. Where the 
evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, I need  to consider whats  more  likely to have 
happened than not. And having thought carefully about Ms Gs case, Im not persuaded that 
she had agreed  a payment plan. Ill explain why. 
Even if an arrangement  was made  by phone,  I dont think its unreasonable to expect some 
form of written confirmation to be sent,  not least so each party knows  what its agreed to. But 
neither Ms G or Capital One has been  able to give me any confirmation at all to show what 
was discussed  or agreed. 
Ms G also said shed  agreed to pay about £1 more than the minimum payment every month, 
so that interest  and charges would  be frozen. But shes also indicated  that shed  been  
paying a fixed  amount  each month. If Ms G had been paying £1 on top of the minimum 
payment (which changes  from month to month depending on whats owed), then I dont think 
its also likely that Ms G was paying a fixed amount.
Also, Ms Gs statements show that shes typically been paying the minimum payment each 
month and that interest has been added  because of that. I think  its likely that if Ms G 
believed shes agreed a payment plan, shed have contacted Capital One much sooner than 
she did about the interest being added to her account. For these reasons, I dont think  Ms G 
agreed a payment plan with Capital One.  And for the same  reasons, I dont  think it was at 
fault for continuing  to add charges and interest  before 2018 in the way that it did. 
Ive looked at Ms Gs account statements from when she took out the credit card account  
and Ive seen  that the way in which she managed it was that she was often very close to her 
credit limit or just exceeded it. Whilst that can often be a sign of financial difficulty, it isnt 
always. So, whilst I wouldnt  necessarily expect a financial business  to step in immediately, 
Id expect it to be monitoring the situation, not least so it can support the customer if needed  
and to stop the situation from getting any worse. 
Ive seen from the statements that Capital  One clearly set out the payments that Ms G 
needed to make to bring her account up to date. And more often than not, she made the 
minimum payment. Ive also seen that on two months she was charged a late payment fee, 
but Capital One then refunded them. So, theres  evidence to show  that Capital One tried to 
support Ms G.
Being unwell in early  2018 must have been  a difficult time for Ms G. And I can appreciate  
why she might think her credit card provider should be particularly sympathetic to that, 
especially as there is an expectation that financial businesses  will recognise  and support 
customers in financial difficulty where possible.  
Ive seen that Capital One told Ms G on her January 2018 statement that she was over her 
limit and behind  on her payments. And it also told her how much she had to pay to get back  
within her credit limit and that she couldnt  use her card in the meantime. So, Im satisfied 
that Capital One appears to have continued  to monitor  Ms Gs account  and that by placing 
certain restrictions on it, it was trying to help Miss G to stay on top of it.   
Ref: DRN72075083Whilst Ive seen no evidence that Ms G contacted  Capital One as soon as she received the 
January statement,  Ive seen that she spoke to Capital One about the charges towards  the 
end of January  2018. Its not clear  how much Ms G told Capital One about  her situation, but I 
can see that it responded positively by refunding late payment fees back to her account. And 
that took her broadly back within her credit limit. And Capital Ones  notes  indicate  that it sent 
Ms G an email  in March 2018  with support on how to manage her finances and indicated  
that if she got in touch,  she might need  to be referred to the financial difficulties section. 
But theres nothing  to suggest  that Ms G did get in touch in response to the email that 
Capital One sent.
Ms G clearly  thinks that Capital One hasnt gone far enough. So, Ive thought about whether 
it should have  done anything more.  
As Ive said,  Ms G usually  made the minimum monthly payment on her account and 
occasionally a little more. But, as she wasnt clearing the balance  in full, Im satisfied that 
Capital One was entitled to add interest to her account. And I cant  say thats  wrong, as the 
interest charged appears to be in line with the terms of her account. And whilst I appreciate  
that Ms G may not have  been able to pay any more given her personal  situation, that doesnt 
mean that Capital One has done anything wrong. 
And Ive thought about whether other action such as a temporary freeze  on Ms Gs account 
might have been helpful to her. But, Im not persuaded that it would. Thats because even 
after Capital One refunded fees to her account,  Ms G continued to spend  on the account -
albeit at smaller levels as she got closer to her credit limit- so that suggests to me that 
having regular  access to her account  was important to Ms G. 
After giving Ms Gs complaint very careful thought, I think Capital One acted reasonably  in 
the circumstances. And, in light of that, I wont be upholding Ms Gs complaint.
I appreciate that Ms Gs likely  to be unhappy with my decision, particularly after the 
difficulties shes faced.  But, I hope she understands the reasons for it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  by 3 April 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7207508