K820x#14complaint
Mrs T doesnt think its fair for Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  she was discharged 
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
Mrs T has been  represented throughout her complaint.
background
Mrs T took out her credit card in 2001  and was sold PPI at the same time.
In 2012, Mrs T granted a trust deed   which became  a protected  trust deed   for her 
creditors. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mrs T was discharged from her trust deed in March 2015.
Mrs T complained to Capital One in June 2015  that she had been mis-sold PPI on her credit  
card.
Following our services involvement, Capital  One agreed the PPI was mis-sold and upheld  
Mrs Ts complaint. 
In December 2016 Capital One wrote out to Mrs T offering compensation of £3,269.26
Mrs Ts representative  got in touch  because Mrs T didnt receive the compensation.
Capital One explained that it in January 2017 it had used the compensation to reduce the 
balance it said was outstanding on Mrs Ts credit  card. 
Mrs Ts representatives  were not happy  with what Capital One had done and referred the 
matter back to our service. 
They say it is unfair  for Capital One to use the PPI compensation  to reduce a debt from 
which Mrs T has been discharged. Mrs Ts representatives explained  that there have been 
court cases  which  focused on whom  PPI compensation should be paid to when a consumer 
has been discharged from a protected  trust deed.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought Capital  One had acted fairly in using  
the compensation to reduce an amount that Mrs T wont now ever have to repay  to 
Capital One  despite Mrs T being discharged from her trust deed.  
Mrs Ts representatives  disagreed with our adjudicators view.  Mrs Ts representatives 
wanted to know  how our service can ignore the law which  states a refund  cannot be used to 
offset a debt that no longer exists.   
Ref: DRN76686342I can see that Mrs Ts complaint has been with this service for some  while  now.  I am grateful 
to Mrs T for her patience  whilst we have considered the issues that have arisen  in her case. 
my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
The Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA) is an act of Parliament of the 
United Kingdom  that created the Financial Services Authority (now called the Financial 
Conduct Authority) as a regulator for insurance,  investment  business  and banking, and 
created our service.
FSMA under  Part XVI  The Ombudsman Scheme sets out:
225. The scheme and the scheme  operator.
(1)This Part provides  for a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality  by an independent person.
228. Determination under  the compulsory jurisdiction.
(2)A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion  of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) sets out, in its handbook, the rules 
under which we operate. They can be found  online.  These are known  as the DISP rules 
(Dispute Resolution:  Complaints).
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in 
[the ombudsmans] opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And when  considering what  is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN76686343It has already been agreed that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So I wont be looking at how the 
PPI came to be sold as that is no longer  in dispute.  And Mrs T isnt unhappy with the amount 
of compensation  being offered, so I havent  looked  at that. Although  from looking at what 
Capital One have offered it includes everything I would expect to see. 
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for Capital  One to use the 
PPI compensation  to reduce the credit card balance that Mrs T says was written  off after she 
was discharged from her protected trust deed. 
Mrs T representatives say as Mrs T was discharged  from her protected  trust deed  and in 
light of relevant law (Scots law) the compensation should be paid directly to her. 
Capital One says it has the right to offset  the compensation  against  monies  Mrs T hasnt fully 
repaid.
Is it fair for Capital One to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed 
 despite Mrs T being discharged from her protected  trust deed?
Having carefully considered this, I agree with our adjudicator. Capital One has acted fairly. 
Ill explain  why.
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that 
Mrs Ts representatives  say I should rely on in determining what  should happen to the 
compensation. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC 
(Civ) 1.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But, importantly,  Im not bound to 
follow it. And if I decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But I must apply 
an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mrs Ts 
complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for Capital One to use the compensation to reduce the 
monies Mrs T borrowed and didnt fully repay.
Ref: DRN76686344While Mrs T was discharged from her protected trust deed  there  was still an outstanding  
amount that Mrs T wont now ever have to repay to Capital One. The fact that Mrs T entered 
into a protected  trust deed and was discharged from her debt when her trust deed came  to 
an end doesnt,  in my opinion,  make  a difference to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell Capital One to pay back  the PPI compensation to Mrs T, 
when Mrs T doesnt now have to pay back the monies she borrowed.  
I would also like to add that when I decide  a complaint about the sale of PPI should  be 
upheld, Id tell a business to put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if they 
hadnt been sold the policy.
With a credit card PPI policy like Mrs Ts, the PPI was charged to the outstanding balance.  
Until the card balance  has been  repaid in full  Mrs T had not actually paid in full for that PPI. 
The majority of it is unpaid PPI. So whilst Capital One has worked  out the amount of PPI in 
its calculation, it is not the amount Mrs T had actually ever paid out of her own pocket. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to tell Capital  One to pay Mrs T the compensation when it 
isnt the amount she had actually paid for PPI over the duration she held her credit card. 
Capital One, by using the compensation  to reduce the unpaid debt, is actually showing what 
the debt would have likely  been had Mrs T not taken out PPI. 
And it is important to note Capital One isnt seeking to legally pursue Mrs T for any 
outstanding amount. It is simply reducing  the outstanding unpaid  amount by the PPI 
compensation it owes her and for the reasons explained  above  I think  that is fair. 
I hope through my decision I have been  able to clarify to Mrs Ts representatives why I am 
not bound  to follow the law when determining  Mrs Ts complaint. And I hope  they understand 
that I have  considered the complaint by applying an over-arching test of what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  as is required of me by law (through  
FSMA Section.228) and the FCAs DISP rules.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for Capital One (Europe) Plc to use 
Mrs Ts PPI commission compensation  to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid  when 
Mrs Ts trust deed  came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7668634