K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs W complain that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  refused to accept 
a claim from Mr H under their joint hospital cash plan,  because he no longer qualified  for 
cover under the plan due to his age. 
background
Mr H and Mrs W held a joint hospital cash plan.  After  Mr H was hospitalised,  they made a 
claim under the policy. 
Despite initially leading  Mr H and Mrs W to believe that the claim would be payable, CIGNA 
later advised  them  that Mr H had been  removed from cover when he had reached the age of 
70. CIGNA said it should have written to Mr H and Mrs W to advise them of this at the time, 
and noted that it had continued to collect the joint premium from them in error. It apologised 
for this, refunded  the overpaid premiums and offered  £500  compensation. Unhappy with this, 
Mr H and Mrs W brought a complaint to this service.  They  wanted  CIGNA to pay Mr Hs 
claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Although  CIGNA had made 
several errors, he didnt  think this meant  CIGNA should have to pay Mr Hs claim. Instead, 
he thought the compensation offered by CIGNA was reasonable. 
Mr H and Mrs W didnt  accept our adjudicators findings, so the matters been passed  to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy terms say:
Age Qualification
Policy cover  ceases for an Insured  Person  at the next Renewal date following their 
attainment of the age of 70 years.
Mr H reached  age 70 in early 2015. When the policy renewed in June  2015,  Mr H was 
removed from cover. 
Mrs W (as the main policyholder) was sent the renewal documents  each year. This included 
the policy schedule.  Prior  to the June 2015 renewal, both Mr H and Mrs W were named as 
insured people on the policy schedule.  However,  at each renewal from 2015 onwards, only 
Mrs W was named as an insured person  on the policy schedule. 
Im therefore  satisfied that CIGNA  had removed Mr H from cover  at the appropriate  time,  and 
in accordance with its policy terms. However,  as CIGNA already accepts, it should have 
notified Mr H before the 2015 renewal that it would be removing him from cover. It explains a 
system error  meant that it failed to do so, and this also meant  that it kept collecting the joint 
premium rather  than the premium payable  for an individual.
Ref: DRN74060402Mr H and Mrs W feel strongly that since CIGNA  continued to collect the joint premium  from 
them, then it should  pay the claim. I do have sympathy for Mr H and Mrs W. If Mr H had still 
been covered  under  the policy,  then the claim payment  would have likely been  significant. I 
can therefore understand their disappointment to learn that Mr H was no longer  covered 
under the policy  when  they thought he was. 
However, despite CIGNAs errors,  I dont  think this means that it should be required to pay 
the claim.  Mr H wasnt eligible for cover  under the policy terms, and also wasnt named as an 
insured person on the policy schedule at the time of the claim. 
Ive thought about what might have happened  if Mr H had known that CIGNA  was removing 
him from cover in June  2015. At that time, he had already reached age 70. Both CIGNA and 
the adjudicator  thought it unlikely that Mr H would have been able to take out an alternative 
similar plan at that age. However, Ive been able to find one cash plan he could  have taken 
out that included hospitalisation benefit. Ive considered this below. 
The plan offers a number  of benefits, one of which is hospitalisation. This benefit pays  
between £12 and £25 a night for an in-patient hospital  stay, depending on the level of cover  
selected. However, this is only payable for a maximum of 30 days per policy year. And the 
policy year for hospitalisation is 12 calendar  months  from the first date of hospital admission.  
Because of this, even if Mr H had taken out this plan in June 2015, his later hospitalisation 
would have all taken  place in one policy year. Therefore, the maximum he could have 
claimed would have been 30 days benefit. 
Based on the premium  Mr H and Mrs W were paying CIGNA, I think its reasonable to 
assume Mr H would have  taken out mid-level  cover  that would have given him £14 a night 
hospitalisation benefit. If that were  the case,  the maximum he could claim would have been 
£420, which is less than the compensation offered by CIGNA. 
Im therefore  satisfied that CIGNAs error hasnt unfairly prejudiced  Mr H. However, its error 
did cause a loss of expectation,  as well as inconvenience. When  Mr H and Mrs W first 
notified CIGNA of the claim, it failed to tell them Mr H was no longer  covered under the 
policy. As such, Mr H and Mrs W went to the trouble of collating the relevant medical 
information to support  the claim, when this was completely  unnecessary.  
Although Mrs W has asked that we listen to the calls where CIGNA failed to tell them  that 
Mr H wasnt covered by the policy, I dont  think we need to do so as this isnt in dispute. 
Consequently, I do think compensation should  be paid. Taking into account all the 
circumstances, and that a small amount of interest would normally be payable on the 
overpaid premiums (which have already been refunded), I think  £500  is fair compensation. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint  Mr H and Mrs W, but I dont require CIGNA to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN74060403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7406040