K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Societys  lending criteria were  not clear  when  he 
applied for a loan.  He is unhappy that although  his initial  loan application was approved  he 
was later told he did not meet these criteria.
background
In March 2018 Mr H applied for a loan from Nationwide. He completed  an application 
through internet banking and was told his loan had been agreed in principle. He was sent a 
loan agreement form which he was asked to return with proof of income. 
After receiving his proof of income  Nationwide withdrew their offer.  They told Mr H that he didnt 
meet their lending criteria due to the fact he was a private tenant and was self-employed.  
Mr H says he was not told about  this criterion, and he was not asked at any stage  in his 
application if he was self-employed. He thinks Nationwide  should  honour the loan agreement 
they sent to him and lend him the money.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the application process and didnt think that Nationwide had done  
anything wrong. They  felt that Nationwide  had taken reasonable steps to make Mr H aware of 
the criteria. And that there was a question in the application where he could  have selected  an 
option to say he was self-employed. Mr H disagrees, so it has been passed  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete or not 
available, Im required to make my decision on balance i.e. what I think most likely happened  
given whats been  said and provided  in the circumstances of the complaint.
I know Mr H will be disappointed,  but having taken all his points into consideration  on 
balance, Ive reached the same overall conclusion  as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Nationwide have said their current policy is that they can only accept an application from 
someone who is self-employed if they own the property they live in and have been self-
employed for at least 12 months. And I can see that Nationwides  eligibility summary says 
that that if self-employed, applicants must be home owners and be able to prove a minimum 
of 1 years income  through an accountant  of or SA302 form. Nationwide  have told us this is 
set out on their website.  Banks are entitled to make commercial decisions about who they 
want to lend money to. So I cant say it is unfair  that Nationwide have this policy.  
But Mr H hasnt disputed that this information is on Nationwides website or that Nationwide 
isnt entitled to have such a policy. Rather, Mr H says that this policy was not made  clear  to 
him when  he applied via internet banking. So he feels he was misled  by the bank. 
Our adjudicator asked  Nationwide to provide us with screenshots  to show what Mr H 
wouldve seen when  he applied.  It hasnt been able to do this. But Nationwide  has told us 
that when applying for a loan  whether its via internet  banking,  their banking  app or their 
website, customers are presented with the same eligibility  summary  to read. And it has 
provided us with the questions Mr H was asked and the answers  he gave. 
Ref: DRN79147242So Ive thought about this very carefully. And  on balance, I think  its most likely that the 
same eligibility criteria  wouldve  been  made available  to Mr H as is on Nationwides  website. 
I can see that Mr H was asked for his employment  status in his application, and that one of 
the possible answers Mr H could have selected was Self-Employed. Nationwide  have 
explained that Mr H should have selected  this option in answer  to this question. And if he 
had done so he would have been told he was not eligible for the loan and wouldnt have 
received an acceptance in principle.  
I know Mr H has said that he selected  Full-time Employee in answer to this question 
because he works full-time. So I can see where the confusion arose, and I dont think  Mr H 
intended to mislead  Nationwide  about  his employment status. But I think its fair that 
Nationwide expect a self-employed applicant to select the Self Employed  option.
I note that when Mr H first complained to Nationwide he was incorrectly told that he would 
not have had the option to select self-employed on the application. But as explained above, 
Nationwide has shown  that this option was available and offered him £50 compensation for 
this mis-information.  I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Nationwide have explained that they only found  out Mr H was self-employed  when  he sent 
them his proof  of income. And as he had told them in his application that he didnt own his 
home, they realised he didnt meet  their lending criteria and withdrew their loan offer. 
Mr H feels that given  Nationwide had approved his loan application they should  honour it. He 
thinks theyve unfairly  backed  out of their offer. Ive reviewed  the screenshots hes sent us 
and the documents he received from them, and I dont think  this is the case.  Nationwide told 
him that he had been provisionally approved for a loan, and that he needed to provide some  
additional documentation  to support his application. They then sent him a letter asking for 
proof of income before they could make their final decision. I think  it was clear from the 
online screens and from this letter that the application process was not yet fully complete. So 
I dont think Nationwide  acted unreasonably by choosing  not to give him the loan after they 
reviewed his proof of income and found out he was self-employed.
Mr H has pointed out that he was sent a loan agreement with the above  letter  which he 
signed and sent back to Nationwide. Ive looked at it and it says that the loan would be paid 
to him after the bank  received and processed his agreement which may include carrying  our 
credit checks and verifying your identity  and the information youve  provided  in your 
application. So again, whilst I appreciate Mr H thought  this meant  he was going  to receive 
the loan, I dont think Nationwide have treated him unfairly by not giving him the funds. They 
asked for his proof of income to verify  his employment status, which they found  was not as 
stated in his initial application. So I think they were entitled to withdraw  their offer.
I appreciate this has been a frustrating experience for Mr H, but I wont  be asking Nationwide 
to honour his loan agreement  for the reasons  I have outlined  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.  
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7914724