K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Society of Lloyds  hasnt settled his car insurance claim fairly.
Any reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
background
Mr Hs car was damaged  in an accident in February 2018. Lloyds arranged  for his vehicle to 
be inspected and decided  it was beyond economical repair.  
Mr H wanted to keep  the car, so he asked for it to be returned to him. He complained that 
there had been  further damage to the car by the recovery  agents while it was in their care 
and while  it was returning it to him.
Lloyds agreed  that its recovery  agents  had caused further damage to Mr Hs car. It said that 
as Mr H wanted to keep the car it would normally deduct an amount from its settlement for 
salvage. But in light of the damage caused  by its agents it wouldnt deduct the salvage value 
of £1,300. It offered Mr H £5,500 (£6,500  less the excess  of £1,000)  to settle  the claim.  
Mr H disagreed with Lloyds valuation. He felt his car was worth significantly more because  
of a number of modifications hed made  to it. Lloyds agreed to consider Mr Hs claim again  
once he had provided invoices to show what work had been done on the car. After Mr H had 
provided the invoices,  Lloyds  increased its valuation of the car to £7,500. It said this meant  
the salvage value was now £1,875 but it wouldnt deduct it from Mr Hs settlement to 
compensate him for the damage caused by its agents.
Lloyds sent Mr H a cheque for £6,500  (having deducted the £1,000 excess) and told him he 
could accept it as an interim payment. It told him he would need to provide an independent 
engineers report  for it to consider the valuation further.
Mr H arranged for an independent engineer to inspect his car, who valued  it at £13,500. 
Lloyds agreed  to settle the claim based on the independent engineers evaluation. It said 
the salvage value had increased to £5,400 which was 40% of the pre incident value of the 
car. But to compensate Mr H for the damage  caused  by its agents it would reduce the 
salvage to 25% of the value. It told Mr H it would send him a cheque for the balance  owed  
and he could bank  this as an interim payment. It would  also reimburse him £400 hed paid 
for the independent engineers report. Lloyds sent Mr H a cheque for £4,025. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Hs concerns.  He thought Lloyds reducing the amount it had 
taken off the settlement for the salvage (from 40% to 25%) was fair compensation for the 
damage its agents had caused to Mr Hs car. But he recommended Mr H be paid a further 
£150 for upset  and inconvenience. He also thought Lloyds should pay Mr H £500  for loss of 
use of the vehicle because of delays  in making  the first interim payment. 
Lloyds disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  It said the elements  of loss of use and upset 
and inconvenience  hadnt previously been  raised  by Mr H. It didnt think  the adjudicators 
view regarding loss of use was fair and reasonable. The vehicle was a total loss and an 
interim offer had been made. The damage  to Mr Hs car caused  by the recovery  agents  had 
already been compensated  by the deduction of only 25% instead of 40% (equating to 
£2,025). The request for an additional  £150 seems  disproportionate.
Ref: DRN74052572I issued a provisional decision on 12 February  2020,  where  I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
The relevant  industry  rules say that the insurer should handle  claims promptly  and fairly.
vehicle valuation
Lloyds has accepted the independent engineers valuation  of Mr Hs vehicle of a pre-
accident value  of £13,500.  
I appreciate Mr H believes the value was higher than this because of the various 
modifications that had been made  to his car. I understand  that Mr Hs car was unique and 
difficult to compare to other vehicles.  But Im satisfied that the engineer who assessed       
Mr Hs vehicle in August 2018 had taken the modifications into consideration. And Ive 
placed a lot of weight  on this report as the engineer is independent of Lloyds. 
Mr H has commented that Lloyds stated that the salvage value was £18,750  which is 
higher than the value of the car. I can see that Lloyds  did give this amount in one of its 
letters. But Im satisfied  that this was a typing error because in other correspondence  it had 
referred to the salvage being  £1,875  which worked  out to be 25% of the valuation at that 
time (£7,500).
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied that £13,500 is a fair valuation of Mr Hs vehicle 
before the accident.
salvage value
In August  2018,  Lloyds told Mr H that the salvage  value was 40% of the value  of his vehicle. 
It said it would reduce this to 25% to compensate Mr H for the damage  caused by its 
recovery agents.
Lloyds has since told us that it made an error when it quoted  the salvage rate as being  40%.  
Its sent us evidence to show  that the correct  rate was 28%, meaning it would have received 
£3,780 under its contract with its salvage dealer if Mr H hadnt chosen to keep his car. From 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 28% is the correct salvage rate.
damage by recovery agents
After its initial valuation  of Mr Hs vehicle  as being £6,500  Lloyds said it wouldnt deduct 
salvage from Mr Hs settlement to compensate him for the damage caused  by its recovery  
agents. The salvage was calculated to be £1,300  (20% of the pre-accident value).
When it assessed the value of the vehicle to be £7,500 Lloyds again said it wouldnt deduct 
the salvage from the settlement. The salvage  was calculated to be £1,875 (25%  of the pre-
accident value).
Ref: DRN74052573But when Lloyds  accepted the independent  engineers valuation of £13,500, it decided to 
reduce the salvage from 40% to 25% to compensate  Mr H for the damage  caused by its 
recovery agents, rather than waiving the full amount.
I can understand why Lloyds  wouldnt  want to waive the full salvage  amount when it had 
increased substantially.  As Ive said, the 40% salvage rate was an error and the correct 
salvage amount  works out to be £3,780.  This is still more than double  the salvage  amounts 
of Lloyds earlier valuations. So, I dont think it would be fair to require to Lloyds to waive  the 
full salvage amount from the calculation of the settlement. 
Lloyds has sent us a copy of an estimate of the cost of repairs from the additional damage 
caused by the recovery  agents, dated  March 2018. This gives  a total of £1,330.14. Lloyds 
says it made  the decision to waive the original £1,300 salvage calculation  based on this 
invoice. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think £1,330.14 is fair compensation for the damage caused  by 
Lloyds recovery agents because his reflects the actual cost of putting  the additional damage 
right.
loss of use and inconvenience
Our investigator thought Lloyds should pay Mr H £500 for loss of use and £150 for 
inconvenience. 
Lloyds had a responsibility to settle  Mr Hs claim promptly.  I think  the time it took to make its 
original settlement offer (in March 2018) was reasonable.  But this was based on a valuation 
which was considerably lower than the final valuation of Mr Hs vehicle (in August 2018). 
Lloyds was aware that Mr Hs vehicle had modifications and that Mr H felt the valuation 
should have been much higher. I think Lloyds  should  have  reached  a fair assessment of the 
cars pre-accident value much sooner than it did.
We asked Mr H for further information  to establish  if there was any financial loss from him 
not having use of his vehicle. Hes told us that he didnt have any access to other  cars, and 
he got around by either walking or asking family members and others for favours.
Given there was no financial loss, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to 
compensate Mr H for loss of use. But Im also mindful that not having a car for an extended 
period of time would  have caused  him a fair amount of inconvenience. So, I intend to direct  
Lloyds to pay Mr H £300 for inconvenience.
putting things  right
To settle  Mr Hs claim fairly Lloyds should have paid £10,450.14.  
This is calculated as follows:
 £13,500 (vehicle valuation)  minus £1,000 (excess) minus £3,780 (salvage value) plus £400  
(engineer report costs)  plus £1,330.14  (damage caused by recovery agents).
In addition to the £10,450.14,  I intend  to direct Lloyds to pay £300 for inconvenience. This 
works out to be 10,750.14.
Ref: DRN74052574Lloyds has already paid Mr H a total of £10,525  (£6,500 plus £4,025). It seems it had paid 
more than it intended to because it had forgotten to deduct the £1,000 excess when it sent 
the second payment. 
So, to put things right I intend to direct Lloyds  to pay Mr H £225.14.
 
Mr Hs response
Mr H disputed the accuracy of the document showing the estimated cost of repairing the 
damage caused by the recovery agents.  He said the model of the car was incorrect and he 
didnt think the estimate  covered all the damage.
He said he hadnt  received a payment for the salvage value, so he wasnt sure how that 
value was deducted from the settlement.
The compensation Id awarded for the inconvenience of him not having his car was lower 
than the adjudicators recommendation. Hed had to pay for favours  and having  to rely on 
others for lifts or walking had caused him lots of stress.
Lloyds response
Lloyds said Mr Hs original complaint wasnt about loss of use or inconvenience  because of 
loss of use. 
Lloyds queried  why it was being held at fault for inconvenience. Mr H was given an interim 
payment and advised to provide an independent engineers  report  if he thought  the valuation 
was too low in May 2018. He took until August  2018 to provide the report.
The model of car Mr H requested the valuation  be based on was incorrect.  His own 
independent engineers report confirms  its a different model  that had been modified. The 
report also confirms the vehicle is unique and the valuation  was not a simple standard  
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has disputed the accuracy of the estimated cost of repairs. But he hasnt provided  us 
with any other evidence to show what the repairs would  have  cost.  And hes previously told 
us he wasnt able to. He told us he bought a new shell and moved some of the parts from 
the damaged  car over to it, rather than having his vehicle repaired. So, I still think £1,330.14  
compensation for the damage caused  by Lloyds recovery agents is fair.
The policy terms state that if a policyholder retains the vehicle it will be subject to a 
deduction from the compensation they are offered. As Ive said in my provisional decision, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds  was entitled to deduct  28% of the pre-accident  value of the vehicle 
from the settlement  because Mr H decided  to keep the car.  
Ref: DRN74052575Both parties  have disagreed with the compensation I said I intended to award  for 
inconvenience in my provisional decision. Lloyds says I shouldnt  have considered  this as 
Mr H hadnt raised it in his original  complaint.  But the ombudsman service has an 
inquisitorial remit which means we can look at the whole picture to get to the heart  of the 
complaint. So, I can consider the impact any delay  settling  the claim fairly had on Mr H.
I understand that Mr Hs vehicle was unique, and the valuation wasnt a simple standard 
process. But Lloyds  has accepted the independent  engineers valuation,  and this is 
significantly higher  than Lloyds valuations. If Lloyds  valuation  of the vehicle had been more 
accurate, Mr H would  have received a higher settlement sooner.
I appreciate that not having  the use of a vehicle  for an extended length of the time would 
have been stressful  for Mr H and he would likely have had to return  any favours he received. 
But I think £300 is fair compensation for this inconvenience for this. 
Having carefully considered both parties points,  my conclusions havent changed from those 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to put 
things right by paying Mr H £225.14.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7405257