K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited 
because it wouldnt send  anyone  out to help them  with finding a leak and it then declined 
their claims for a water  damaged ceiling,  chair and carpet.
background
Mr and Mrs O found  water coming  through their lounge  ceiling in February/March 2018. 
They spoke to Lloyds  and were told they had to resolve the leak and it wouldnt attend  to 
assess the damage caused  by the water  until this had been done.
Mr and Mrs O were disappointed, they felt Lloyds had left them without  assistance.  They  had 
a plumbing and drainage company attend.  It confirmed there were no leaking pipes. It was 
identified that the sealant between the bath and the wall tiles had failed and this was 
allowing water to get through. Mr and Mrs O had the area repaired.  They  called Lloyds. 
Lloyds sent an assessor  out to look at the damage. 
The assessor viewed  photos Mr O had taken at the time of the leak.  He noted the water had 
escaped the confines of the bath/shower due to the failed sealant. He sent a report  of his 
findings, complete  with Mr Os photos  to Lloyds. Lloyds said it was declining the claim 
because sealant  had failed and allowed damage  to occur gradually  overtime.  It also 
confirmed that Mr and Mrs Os policy doesnt  include cover for tracing leaks.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy and complained  to us. Our investigator ultimately felt Lloyds 
decline had been  justified. He also felt it had acted reasonably in respect of not assisting to 
trace the leak. He didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs O asked for an ombudsmans 
consideration and the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have stated it is their expectation that, as they pay for insurance,  when 
damage occurs Lloyds will assist them and resolve the damage. Whilst I understand this 
view, it isnt how insurance works. The policy  held by Mr and Mrs O, like many  on the 
market, covers them for damage  caused by specific events, as well as accidental damage. 
The policy doesnt  cover  them  for tracing leaks. So only if damage occurs which appears 
either to be accidental in nature or to stem from a specific event, in line with the policy  
wording, will Lloyds have  to act.
Lloyds didnt have  any obligation to assist  Mr and Mrs O with tracing where the water  was 
coming from, or stopping  it. I understand  why theyd like it to have helped but I cant 
reasonably say it acting  in line with the cover  agreed  to in the policy,  and requiring 
Mr and Mrs O to do that, was unfair.
Until the cause of the water was traced  it wasnt clear that the damage it had caused had 
occurred accidentally or as a result of a specific event. So again  there  was no requirement 
for Lloyds  to send anyone  to assess the damage. Further, I note that Mr O took pictures of 
the damaged  ceiling before he completed a cosmetic repair  to the area. And the carpet  and 
the chair were still there  to be viewed when Lloyds  did assess  the damage. In addition  the 
Ref: DRN71703882cause of the water damage had already been clarified and reported   so it didnt matter  that 
a repair  had been carried out the bath/shower area.  The outcome of Mr and Mrs Os claim 
wasnt negatively affected by Lloyds assessing  the damage when it did. 
Mr and Mrs O had accidental damage  for contents items at the time of the loss, but not 
buildings. In any event  the accidental damage  cover only applies to damage which isnt 
specifically covered or excluded elsewhere in the policy.  The policy,  for contents as well as 
buildings, offers cover for damage  caused by escapes of water, but cover  for that is 
excluded if the damage is caused by failed sealant or grout. In Mr and Mrs Os claim  it was 
failed sealant  that allowed moisture to breach the waterproofing elements  of the bathroom 
and seep down  to the ceiling and into the room  below. This means that any claim under the 
escape of water cover fails, and, by association, so does  any for accidental  damage.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted  fairly  and reasonably in handling 
and declining  Mr and Mrs Os claim. Im not going  to make it do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7170388