K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about damage charges made by PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA)  at the 
end of her hire agreement.
Where I refer to PSA, this includes its agents.
background
Ms T hired a new car through an agreement with PSA dated December 2015. This required 
her to make 24 payments and to pay, on the cars return, for any excess  mileage and for 
certain damage.
Ms T returned the car at the end of the hire period  having made  all 24 payments required of 
her. The car was inspected (with  Ms T being present) on 30 November 2017. £1,248 of 
damage charges  were  noted and supported by photographs. 
The charges  were as follows:
rippled finish/poor repair to all four doors  £488 (£122 per door)
rippled finish/poor repair to left front wing £122
paint run/poor  repair to right quarter panel £122
poor colour match/poor  repair to left quarter panel £122
preparation marks to front bumper £120
contamination to rear bumper £152
preparation marks to right front wing £122
Ms T signed this inspection report to say that:
I disagree the vehicle  detailed above  was collected on the date shown with final mileage 
and condition as described on the form.
Disagree with inspection  findings
Please note: Upon  delivery to the final depot  prior to the re-sale,  this vehicle  will undergo a 
more detailed damage and condition assessment in a controlled inspection  environment. 
Any additional damage of a nature that falls within the guidelines previously  agreed  between 
yourself and the vehicle  provider will be recorded,  and a re-charge may be imposed by them. 
This may be supported by appropriate  digital image(s).
Ms T continued to dispute the damage charges but ultimately paid £936,  a sum that PSA 
agreed it was prepared to accept  in full and final settlement.  £936  represented a discount of 
25% off the original  invoiced  sum of £1,248. Ms T says that she accepts that there  was 
some damage to the car but she shouldnt be charged more  than £400  for this.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators.  He found that PSA had deprived  
Ms T of the opportunity  of having a second  and independent inspection  carried out by selling 
the car on quickly, something Ms T was entitled  to under guidance issued by the British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). And that while the supplied photographs 
show some  damage to the car, they dont clearly show the car was poorly sprayed. And 
because of this the investigator concluded that PSA should refund  Ms T the £936 she had 
paid together  with 8% interest.
Ref: DRN77931532Ms T accepted the investigators findings  but PSA didnt. 
PSA said it stood by the damage  charges of £1,248  which related to a substandard paint 
repair to several areas of the car. It also said that an independent inspection required the 
agreement of both parties  and that Ms T was free to have held on to the car on 
30 November 2017, rather than return it, to complete any further action she wanted .
The investigator considered PSAs response to his view but wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore the matter was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in March  2019. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T says that on returning the car she believed a second and independent 
inspection of it would be undertaken before it was sold on. But having  regard to the 
paperwork Ms T signed (on the return of the car) Im not persuaded this was a 
reasonable conclusion for her to have  reached. In my view Ms T should have 
understood, based on what  she signed, that what would happen before the car was 
sold on was that a further inspection would be undertaken by PSA to see if any 
damage, not noted in the first inspection, was present, and whether Ms T should be 
charged for that damage.
Secondly, had Ms T wanted a second and independent inspection  of the car she 
could have held on to it and arranged for this to be undertaken,  as pointed out by 
PSA, rather than returning it. 
Thirdly, even if Ms T arranged  for a second and independent inspection to be carried 
out, there  is very little to say that this second independent inspection wouldnt have 
simply come to the same conclusions as PSA did. But in any event, by referring her 
complaint to our service what Ms T has got, in essence, is an independent  inspection  
of the evidence provided by PSA.
I will now turn to the damage Ms T was charged  for.
Its not unusual  for a finance provider like PSA to check  at the end of an agreement  
that the consumer  took reasonable care of the car. And in this respect I note Ms T 
agreed (under  the terms and conditions of the agreement) thats what she would do, 
and that in the event she didnt, charges might apply.
BVRLA, the trade  body that oversees  the car rental  and leasing sector has issued 
guidance which outlines what is considered to be fair wear and tear and what is 
chargeable damage. In looking at this type of complaint and deciding whether PSA 
has acted reasonably, I take account of this guidance as I think  its a good indicator 
of what damage is fair for a business to charge for. Furthermore, I think its worth 
pointing out that Ms T accepts that there  was some damage to the car for which she 
should be held liable  for.
Ref: DRN77931533In respect of paintwork the BVRLA guidance  says that:
Repaired chips, scratches  and dents are acceptable provided the work is completed  
to a professional  standard by repairers who can provide full warranty  on their work.
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking  paint,  preparation  marks, paint 
contamination, rippled  finish  and poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
Now I appreciate Ms T says the car wasnt subject to any paint repairs whilst in her 
possession. But in my view the photographs provided by PSA, which  I find to be very 
persuasive, suggest otherwise. I would also add that if the paintwork on the return  of 
the car (in 2017) was the same as when Ms T took delivery of it (in 2015), Im 
surprised she took delivery of it.
The terms of Ms Ts hire agreement  allow PSA to make a charge for damage. And 
taking everything into account I dont think £936  was an unreasonable  sum for PSA 
to have ultimately charged Ms T.
So Im currently of the view that PSA need  not refund  Ms T the £936 she paid,  either 
in full or in part.
PSA responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings and had nothing further to add.
Ms T responded to say that she was disappointed  with my provisional  findings but provided 
nothing materially new for my consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that PSA has agreed with my provisional findings and Ms T has provided nothing  
materially new for my consideration, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional  findings 
and I now confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7793153