K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about the handling  of his home emergency insurance  claim by Aviva 
Insurance Limiteds claims handling agent1.
background
Mr E contacted Aviva to claim under the policy because water was coming  into his home 
through the roof. He needed someone to do a temporary repair to stop the water  coming  in. 
Because of delays  in a contractor attending Mr E decided to arrange the repairs himself.
The complaint has arisen  because  Mr E doesnt  think his policy performed as it should have 
 he had to wait a long time on the phone when calling Aviva, he had to chase when the 
contractor didnt turn up, and he had to arrange repairs himself. Hes also unhappy  with the 
way the complaint was  specifically that Aviva said the contractor attended, which Mr E said 
is untrue.
Aviva apologised for it taking so long for Mr E to get through on the phone  and for the delays  
in the contractor attending  which meant  Mr E had to chase it up. It also offered £50 
compensation. Mr E accepted the offer for the poor service and lack of communication. But 
he felt more should be paid for the fact he didnt receive the insurance cover  he paid for. He 
also maintained  that the contractor didnt attend.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt the balance  of evidence 
showed that the contractor did turn up and did a repair. Mr E disagreed. He said the 
contractor definitely  didnt attend   he said the contractor was lying and committing fraud  by 
saying he did and by charging Aviva for work that was never done. He also pointed to a 
phone call he made to Aviva (the day after the contractor allegedly attended) to cancel the 
contractor as hed now made his own arrangements  the point being that he wouldnt phone  
to cancel a contractor the morning after the contractor had already attended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately I need to decide whether  Aviva  needs to increase  its compensation. When I 
decide complaints  like this I dont necessarily  investigate or comment on each and every 
point the parties  make.  Rather,  I look at what happened as a whole and whether the 
business treated  the consumer unfairly.  If I think they did, I go on to look at what the 
business needs to do to put matters right. I dont have the power to fine or punish a business  
just because it did something wrong. I only consider  awarding compensation if I think the 
wrongdoing caused the consumer to suffer  distress, inconvenience and/or financial loss that 
they otherwise  wouldnt  have  suffered.
Aviva has accepted that some of the service Mr E received was below standard.  The 
remaining contentious issue  though is whether the policy  provided  the cover  that Mr E paid 
for  specifically whether or not the contractor attended and carried  out a temporary repair.
1 Although  it was Avivas  agent who handled the claim its Aviva who is responsible  for how the claim 
was handled. Im therefore going to refer solely to Aviva throughout my decision.
Ref: DRN76789642There is evidence in Avivas file which suggests that he did. I acknowledge  however  that 
Mr E vehemently denies this and says the contractor is lying. The only observation I make is 
that the contractor  either attended or he didnt  so someone isnt telling the truth.
I dont have the power to cross-examine  witnesses under  oath  so theres nothing to 
compel them to tell the truth if I did speak  to them. I could request  a copy  of the call Mr E 
says he made the following morning, because  I think he makes a good  point in that respect.  
But Im not going  to do that. And Im not going  to make a finding on this particular point  
because I dont think it ultimately makes any difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Thats because even  if I find in Mr Es favour, I wouldnt be persuaded that Aviva  telling him 
that the contractor  attended caused  distress  or compensation that warranted compensation 
above whats already been offered. Obviously I wouldnt condone Aviva telling Mr E 
something that wasnt true, but as Ive said above  I couldnt fine or punish  it for doing so.
Overall, Im satisfied that Avivas compensation offer satisfactorily  acknowledges the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr E suffered due to the substandard service he received, including  the 
fact that the policy  might  not in this instance  have satisfactorily responded to the claim he 
made.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7678964