K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurant)  offer in settlement of 
claim he made on his mobile phone  insurance.  Hes also unhappy with the customer  service 
hes received during  his claim.
background
Mr L had a bag stolen from him while  abroad in April 2018.  Among the items  stolen  were  his 
mobile phone and some accessories. 
Mr L holds a mobile phone insurance  policy through his bank account, which is underwritten 
by Assurant. Mr Ls claim was handled  by a different company on Assurants behalf. But for 
ease of reference Ill only refer to Assurant  in this decision.
Mr L raised a claim about the loss with Assurant.  The claim was accepted  and Mr L was 
initially sent a replacement handset. He also reported that he lost some  accessories and was 
eventually reimbursed for these too after providing proof of purchase.
In June 2018 Mr Ls replacement phone began overheating.  He reported this to Assurant 
and asked that it provide a cash settlement rather than another  replacement.  Assurant 
agreed to pay £410 as a cash settlement. But following this it received contact from another 
insurer which indicated that another claim had been made  for the same  phone.  It put the 
claim on hold pending investigation from its investigation team  and the third party.
Assurant didnt immediately advise Mr L about this. He made  several calls before he was 
told what was happening. At this stage Assurant advised there was no timescale for the 
investigation and said it would contact him when it had an update.
In July 2018 Assurant completed its investigation and agreed to pay the cash settlement. 
Mr L said £410 was no longer a fair amount. He said the phone manufacturer  had confirmed 
the replacement  phone  wasnt genuine and that he was due more  compensation. He said he 
had spent nearly 1,000 minutes on the phone trying to resolve his claim. He also said he 
was lied to on several occasions and was called a criminal  by Assurant.
Assurant investigated  Mr Ls complaint.  It accepted  there was an issue with an agreed  call-
back and that Mr L was once mistakenly asked to pay a second excess. It apologised and 
offered Mr L £75 compensation for the five day delay  in telling him the investigation was 
finished and for the overall difficulties  hed had with the claim. But it maintained the £410 
cash settlement offer was fair.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint  for him. She listened  to all of the calls between  
Mr L and Assurant and thought that it had done its best to be helpful on all of the calls. She 
accepted that Mr L was once asked to pay an excess  incorrectly.  But she didnt agree that 
hed been called a criminal.
Our investigator thought that £75 compensation was fair to reflect  the issues Mr L had 
experienced. And she thought that Assurants cash settlement offer was fair and didnt need 
to be increased.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators  assessment. So because no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN78511562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt in dispute Mr L has experienced some customer  service  issues  and Assurant has 
accepted in good faith that the handset it provided  was faulty.  What  I need to decide  is 
whether the compensation offered to recognise  these issues is fair. I also need to decide 
whether Assurants offer of cash settlement is in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy and whether it is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. Ill address each point 
in turn.
customer service  issues
From what  Ive seen Mr L had around  22 calls with Assurant  between April and July 2018  in 
relation to this claim. The first four calls are about  the accessories not being supplied  with 
the replacement  phone.  Mr L was unhappy because Assurant only sent a new handset, not 
the charger, case  or headphones. 
I appreciate Mr L wouldve preferred to receive all of the items in the first instance. But Ive 
reviewed his claim form, and I dont think it wouldve been immediately obvious to Assurant 
that the case or charger were part of the claim. The claim form does refer to the 
headphones, but Mr L hadnt  provided a receipt for those. Assurant requested  proof of 
purchase for the items  and, when received, paid a cash settlement for them and his 
replacement SIM card. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Assurant to request proof of purchase to validate the 
claim for the items before  paying the settlement. Taking everything into account I think this 
part of the claim progressed as quickly as it couldve done,  and that the staff Mr L spoke with 
did their best to help during these calls.
The remainder of the calls relate  to the issue with the handset being faulty. The main  
customer service  issues  during the calls relate to one occasion  where  Assurant says a 
manager will call Mr L back  but doesnt,  and a call where an advisor incorrectly  asks Mr L to 
pay the excess that hes already paid. Mr L also says he sent emails during  this period which 
werent replied to.
Assurant admits that there were occasions where it didnt communicate with Mr L as it 
should have, such as when it didnt respond to his email about the replacement  SIM card.  It 
also accepts that Mr L was mistakenly asked for the second excess, although it says this 
issue was resolved on that call. And that there was a delay in notifying Mr L when it finished 
the investigation into the information from the third party insurer.  
Ive thought about everything both sides have said and provided. I agree that there have 
been some  issues. I appreciate Mr Ls frustration with his claim being  put on hold  
particularly after it had already been  accepted.  But Assurant was advised by a third party 
insurer that another claim had been made. So it was reasonable of it to put a hold on Mr Ls 
claim and investigate with the third party  to ensure that the claim wasnt  paid twice.
Ref: DRN78511563Mr L says he was called a criminal by Assurant. But from what Ive seen that isnt the case. 
In one call Assurants staff member tries to reassure Mr L that it isnt trying  to make  him feel 
like a criminal.  So I think a misunderstanding  has occurred with her use of the word criminal.  
I know Mr L spent a lot of time on the phone, trying to get things sorted out. But I think a 
large amount of this time was after Assurant told him his claim was on hold for investigation  
and that a timescale couldnt be given for when it would be concluded. Assurant had told 
Mr L it would  update him when there  was one  so I dont think it would be fair to say it is 
responsible for all of the time Mr L spent on the phone. 
In any event, Assurant  did offer to consider covering any additional losses that Mr L suffered 
due to making phone calls,  if he could provide a phone bill to show  the losses. But Mr L 
hasnt been able to provide this. I dont  think its unreasonable  that Assurant wont  reimburse 
these losses without  Mr L providing the phone  bill.
In addition to the above  offer,  Assurant has apologised for the issues Mr L has experienced 
and offered £75 compensation. It says this is to recognise the service issues and Mr Ls 
disappointment at receiving a faulty  phone. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think Assurants offer is fair in the circumstances.
settlement of claim
Mr L is unhappy with the cash settlement offer of £410. He says Assurant initially  sent him a 
fake handset which  is what has caused the issues hes experienced. But from what  Ive 
seen, Assurant has provided evidence from the phone manufacturer  to show  that the 
handset was a genuine device  although one which had been remanufactured.
In terms of the amount offered for a cash settlement, The cover you receive section  of 
Mr Ls policy contains a section for benefits  you receive, which  states:
If your mobile  phone is damaged or breaks  down we will either:
1.repair the mobile phone (where possible) or
2.replace it with a mobile phone of the same make  and model.  If we cannot do this you 
will be given  a choice of models  with an equivalent specification.
If your mobile phone is lost or stolen we will replace it with a mobile phone of the 
same make, model and memory  size. If we cannot  do this you will be given a choice 
of models with an equivalent specification.
Replacements
1.Where we replace  the mobile  phone the replacement may be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device.
So, based  on the policy wording Mr Ls policy covers repair or replacement of the handset.  
But in Mr Ls case, he asked Assurant to consider a cash settlement and it agreed. 
The policy says that replacement phones may be remanufactured. So to calculate the cash 
settlement, Assurant has offered an amount that is sufficient to purchase a remanufactured 
handset of the same make, model  and memory  size as Mr Ls. I think  this offer is fair in the 
circumstances, so I dont  think  Assurant needs to increase the cash  settlement  amount. 
Ref: DRN78511564If Mr L no longer wants the cash settlement Assurant has confirmed it is still willing  to 
provide a replacement handset in line with the policy terms.
Overall I think  Assurant  has handled Mr Ls complaint fairly, so I wont  be directing it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7851156