K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd (Blue Motor) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also complains that Blue 
Motor hasnt provided him with the service  it should  have while dealing with the problem.
 
background
Mr B entered into a HPA with Blue Motor at the end of August 2018  to acquire a used car. 
He later contacted  Blue Motor in November  2018 to say that in the first month of use the car 
had gone into limp mode  and the dealer had taken it back  for repairs.  He says the car was 
with the dealer for a week and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was replaced. However he 
says following this the engine management  light (EML) came  on and the car went into limp 
mode again. Further repairs then took place, but by this stage Mr B wanted to reject  the car.
Mr B says that the car has been  in for investigation and repairs  on a number of occasions  
but issues remain. He also complains that he didnt  receive call backs  as promised when 
Blue Motor  was dealing with his complaint. 
Blue Motor  says that the cars DPF was replaced  and following this a DPF configuration and 
regeneration was required. This took place and it was believed the issue  had been  resolved. 
However, due to reported ongoing issues an independent inspection was carried  out. Blue 
Motor says this report said the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint,  because  she was satisfied  that there was a fault with 
the car that was developing at the point of supply.  She said that Mr B had been 
inconvenienced by having a car not fit for purpose and needing to have it inspected and 
repaired multiple times. Because of this she recommended that Mr B be allowed to reject the 
car and have his monthly payments and insurance costs  refunded  from the date he reported  
the fault. She also recommended  he be paid £150  compensation  for the inconvenience  hed 
been caused.
Blue Motor  didnt accept  our investigators  view. It said the car passed an MOT at the point 
of supply and had there been an issue with the DPF or a warning light on at that time it 
wouldnt have. It reiterated that an independent inspection  took place which confirmed the 
car was fit for purpose, and while a DPF regeneration was required  this was a maintenance 
issue and not a fault. It said the report also confirmed the issue with the DPF wasnt a 
manufacturing or material defect.
Overall, it said there wasnt sufficient evidence to say the car wasnt  fit for purpose at the 
point of supply  and that the issues had developed after this.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations  into account, but ultimately my decision is 
based on what I consider  fair and reasonable.
Mr B acquired a used  car through a HPA.  Under  the regulations, Blue Motor  is liable if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account 
Ref: DRN72327822factors such  as the age and mileage of the car. At the point of acquisition  the car was around 
four and half years old and had been driven  around 54,600  miles.
Mr B experienced issues with the car shortly after he acquired it. In November  2018,  he 
reported that the car went into limp mode a month after acquisition  and was returned to the 
dealer and the DPF replaced. I dont have  a copy of the job card for this. However, I have 
seen information  from a subsequent investigation  in November 2018, which reports issues 
with the DPF. Therefore  I find it reasonable to accept that the repairs  initially  carried out 
didnt resolve the issue.
By November 2018, Mr B had driven  the car around 1,300 miles. Given  he had already 
needed repairs by this time, I find it reasonable to accept that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable at the point  of supply. Had the repairs  been  successful prior to this point then I 
accept they would have been  a reasonable remedy - but as they werent, I can understand 
why Mr B wished to reject the car.
A DPF regeneration was carried out in November 2018 but the issues of the EML coming on 
and the car going into limp mode  returned.  In January 2019, diagnostics  were carried out 
and an issue with the DPF was again  identified. Mr B had driven  around  1,000 miles 
between this date and when the DPF regeneration  had occurred the previous November.
Again action was taken  to resolve  the issue, but again the problem returned. So an 
independent inspection report was undertaken in March 2019, and this reported the car 
being in limp mode and displaying  issues consistent  with a partially-blocked  DPF.
Based on the information provided its clear  theres an ongoing issue  with the car which 
seems to be linked  to the DPF. And attempts made to resolve the problem, have been 
unsuccessful.
Blue Motor  says that the MOT carried out at the point of supply showed no issues  and that 
issues with the DPF are maintenance anyway, and therefore Mr Bs responsibility. 
Comments have also been made  by the dealer about the car being  returned with low fuel 
levels and the type of driving needed to regenerate the DPF. The inspection  report  also says 
that in its opinion there is no manufacturing  or material defect with the DPF.
I have taken all of this into consideration in my decision.
However, given when the problem first arose, and the limited  miles Mr B had been  able to 
drive by that time, I find, on balance, that the issue was more likely than not developing at 
the point of supply. The problems may not have been identified  in the MOT, but this doesnt 
necessarily mean they werent developing at the point. A number of repairs were 
undertaken, but these didnt resolve the issue and Mr Bs continued to experience the same 
problems with the car. The number of times the car has been in for investigation and repairs 
in the first few months I think shows it wasnt sufficiently durable.
Based on the above, I uphold this complaint. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr B should  now have his car collected  at no cost to him, and his agreement  ended with 
nothing further  owing. Had a deposit been  paid I would have expected this to have been  
refunded but the HPA shows no deposit  was paid.
Ref: DRN72327823Given the issues hes experienced  and his request to reject in November 2018, I think it also 
fair that Mr B is refunded  75% of his finance payments made from this date until end June 
2019. This refund reflects the fact that Mr B was without his car for periods of time while it 
was in for repair or investigation and the loss of enjoyment he had due to the car not 
performing as it should have. Mr B has explained  the limited  mileage the car did during this 
period which  is also reflected  in this refund. I havent  refunded the full amount as 
consideration has to be taken  to the fact that Mr B did still have some use of the car.  
Thereafter, Mr B says he stopped using the car and that it has been  off the road since July 
2019. Therefore  I also find it fair that 100%  of his payments are refunded from this date 
along with his insurance costs (evidence to be provided). 
Mr B has explained that he made four payments under the agreement  but then stopped  
paying due to the issues. He said that within one of those months the car was in the garage 
for three weeks. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels he should  receive a refund of some or all of the payments he 
made. However I have  to consider  that Mr B had the car for a period of time and while there  
were issues  the car was still available for use. Based on this I consider  the refund I have set 
out reasonable. 
I also appreciate the comments  that have been made about the amount of compensation 
and the upset that Mr B has been caused. I am sorry to hear of the stress  this issue has 
caused and I can see it has been ongoing  for an extended period. However, the complaint 
has taken time to resolve given the conflicting  evidence received about the issues. Overall, 
given the other redress in this complaint I find compensation of £150 is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1.allow Mr B to reject the car and collect at no cost to him;
2.end his HPA with nothing further owing and remove  and adverse information  
regarding this agreement from his credit file;
3.pay Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience that he has been caused.
4.refund  Mr B 75% of any payments made between  8 November 2018 and end June 
2019;
5.refund  Mr B any payments made from July 2019 onwards;
6.refund  Mr Bs insurance costs from July 2019 onwards (subject to evidence  being 
provided);
Items 4, 5 and 6 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Ref: DRN72327824If Blue Motor considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7232782