K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the rejection of a claim on a Great Lakes Insurance SE policy.  
background
Mr G, on behalf of his business,  made a claim for damage to helicopter rotor blades. Great 
Lakes rejected the claim, first on the basis that Mr H hadnt told them  about the damage in 
time, and later as they didnt think he had proved the claim was valid.  Mr G complained  to 
us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but didnt uphold  the complaint. They thought 
Mr G should have contacted Great Lakes earlier, they also thought  the claim failed on other 
grounds. Mr G didnt agree, so the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding the complaint either, for the same reasons as the investigator. 
The policy here does  require the insured to let Great Lakes know  immediately of any event 
likely to give rise to a claim. Whilst this has to be read in a realistic  fashion, I do think the 
time here between the alleged incident  and it being reported is too long. 
Mr G at first claimed that the rotor damage  may have  been due to an incident in 2015.  When 
that was rejected as being unlikely  due to inspections at the time and after,  it was suggested 
there was an incident in 2017 when things could  have gone wrong. Great Lakes  refused  to 
investigate further  as they didnt think the claim history was consistent, and they should have 
been told of the incident  in 2017, and werent.  
I have discounted  the 2015  incident as a cause of this damage,  which  was only noticed in 
2018. As for the 2017 incident it hasnt helped  Mr Gs case  that this was only recollected  
after the initial rejection of the claim. I also note he states the incident was bad enough for 
him to inspect the helicopter then (no damage was found) but he didnt  report it as his policy  
requires. 
Whilst I would expect  an insurer to apply the immediate notification clause reasonably, here I 
think they have  done so. For Mr G to have been concerned  enough about  the helicopter to 
inspect it means to me that he should  have reported the incident. 
Even if I didnt think this there are other issues with Mr Gs claim. In particular the policy  
doesnt cover wear and tear or deterioration.  And it seems to me a possibility that this is 
what happened here. Either the damage was down to simple wear and tear, and so isnt 
covered, or the damage was linked to a longstanding  deterioration  after either the 2015  
(although I doubt  that) or 2017 incidents, and again  would not be covered by this policy 
wording. 
Looking at all the evidence here,  and the inconsistencies in the history  of the claim, and the 
policy wording I dont  think I can reasonably ask Great Lakes to make any payment. 
Ref: DRN73414002my final decision
I make  no award against Great Lakes  Insurance SE. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7341400