K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out to cover a 
mortgage between  1998 and 2010. The policies covered Mr G only.  Mr and Mrs G say 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent  mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs G that they had a choice  
about it. But Mr and Mrs G say they were told their application was more  likely to be 
approved if they took the PPI.
1998 sale
Mr and Mrs G initially  took out PPI with their mortgage in 1998.
There isnt very much  information  available from this sale. Mr and Mrs G havent given us 
much detail about what was said. And Lloyds hasnt been able to send us any evidence from 
the sale showing Mr and Mrs G chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has 
passed since the sales though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs G that taking the PPI 
would have an impact  on their application.  So I think its likely Lloyds made it clear to Mr and 
Mrs G that they had a choice about  the PPI, and that Mr and Mrs G chose to take it.
2000 sale
Mr and Mrs G took out a further  advance on their mortgage in 2000, and amended  the PPI 
policy to cover their increased monthly  payments.
Lloyds has sent us copies of Mr and Mrs Gs application form and loan agreement  for this 
advance. And I cant see anything  on either of these  forms which suggests that Mr and 
Mrs Gs application would  be affected by them taking PPI.
Lloyds has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form, which shows  Mr G was to 
be covered by the PPI, and a direct  debit mandate to pay for the PPI, signed by Mr G.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Lloyds did make it clear to Mr and Mrs G that 
they had a choice about the PPI here,  and that they chose to take it.
Ref: DRN796898522001 sale
Mr and Mrs G took out another advance on their mortgage in 2001, and again amended the 
PPI to cover their increased monthly  repayments.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs application form for this advance. And this 
included a section  on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show  whether they 
wanted to apply for it. And the yes box has been  ticked.
Lloyds has also sent us copies of a separate PPI application form and a direct debit mandate 
to pay for the PPI, both signed  by Mr G.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think Lloyds  made it clear  to Mr and Mrs G that they had 
a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs G chose to take it.
2010 sale
Mr and Mrs G took out another advance on their mortgage in 2010, and took out a new PPI 
policy to cover the repayments for this advance.
Lloyds has sent us copies of Mr and Mrs Gs application form and loan agreement  for this 
advance. And I cant see anything  on either of these  forms which suggests that Mr and 
Mrs Gs application would  be affected by them taking PPI.
Lloyds has also sent us copies of a separate PPI application form and a direct debit mandate 
to pay for the PPI, both signed  by Mr G.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Lloyds made it clear to Mr and Mrs G that they had a 
choice about the PPI here, and that Mr and Mrs G chose  to take it.
all sales
Mr and Mrs G have also said they felt pressured  into taking the PPI. But they havent given 
us much detail about why they felt this. This is understandable given how long ago the sales  
were. But I dont think theres enough evidence here for me to say that Lloyds unfairly  
pressured them into taking out the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check that it was right for them.  
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of the sales, I think that it 
was. For example, Mr G doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policies couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs G have 
told us Mr G wouldve received sick pay for. And they wouldve meant Mr and Mrs G didnt 
need to rely on their savings to make  their mortgage repayments if Mr G wasnt earning.
Mr and Mrs G have said that Mr G had been with his employer for less than six months when 
the policies were sold in 2001 and 2010,  and so it wouldve been difficult  for him to make a 
claim. But Mr G had been with his employer for around four months and five months 
respectively in 2001 and 2010. And the terms of the policies say he wouldve been  able to 
make a claim for unemployment once hed reached  six months  continuous employment.
So he would have  reached six months continuous  employment a relatively short  amount  of 
time after the sales. The policies wouldve covered him for accident and sickness  in the 
Ref: DRN79689853same way as any other customer during this time.  And a mortgage  is a long-term financial 
commitment. So I think the policies were still right for Mr G, despite him not having six 
months continuous employment at the time of the sales.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs G clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Gs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policies offered appealing.  And for the same reasons I think  it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs G if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs G off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs G, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs G any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN79689854my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt  have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7968985