K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about problems she was having when applying for a Capital One (Europe) 
plc credit card online.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I thought  that Capital One could have done a bit more  when it communicated  
with Mrs P about her new card. And I thought that a payment of £100 to Mrs P for trouble 
and upset  and the final credit search  removing  from her credit file was a fair way to settle 
this complaint.
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it and didnt provide 
any additional comments for me to consider.
Capital One replied to my provisional decision to say that it didnt agree that it should remove  
the final credit search from Mrs Ps credit file  but it would do this anyway and pay the £100. 
Capital One didnt give me any additional  points to consider.
Because of this, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. Ive attached  this to the 
bottom of this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that Capital  One (Europe) plc should pay £100  
compensation to Mrs P and remove the final search  from her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70327872copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P complains about problems she was having when  applying for a Capital One (Europe) plc credit 
card online.
background
Mrs P made two online  applications for a credit card account with Capital One. Both applications  had 
the wrong postcode on it. The postcode on both of these was for Mrs Ps previous address, as she 
had recently  moved  house.  Capital One says the postcode  was entered  incorrectly by Mrs P on both 
occasions, and that this could  have  been  manually changed during the application  process. Mrs P 
noticed the error on the first application and called  Capital One to cancel it. 
Mrs P was worried about the number of credit  checks carried out if she continued processing  the 
application. And she was worried she wouldnt be accepted for a different credit card because of this. 
Mrs P called Capital One to see if she could change the incorrect  information on the second 
application. Capital One said it couldnt do this. Its representative said it could cancel  the current  
application and a new one could be submitted with the correct  information. Mrs P didnt want  to do 
this as she didnt want another search on her credit file. 
Capital One told Mrs P in an email that it needed documents to verify her identity within 
28 days in order for the second application  to be processed. Mrs P didnt send the identification 
documents in, and instead she says, applied  for a different card with a different lender. But Capital 
One later,  and unexpectedly for Mrs P, sent her out a new card in the post. . And so this again 
resulted in more credit searches she didnt  want on her file. Capital One said because  Mrs P didnt 
cancel the application,  its systems later did another check to see if the application could be processed 
 it was successful and this is why the card was sent.
Capital One sent the card to Mrs P using the wrong  postcode but, fortunately, she received it. 
Mrs P is unhappy  Capital  Ones online  system let her continue with the applications, given her 
address and postcode didnt match. She says if the online  application  had not let her continue,  then 
she wouldnt  have had searches on her credit file for the applications.
Finally, Mrs P complained about the issues shed had when she spoke to Capital One in December 
2017. The representative confirmed it would send her a final response on the matter,  but it didnt do 
this for quite some  time. And the response didnt provide her with much of an explanation  about what 
had happened. 
Mrs P referred her complaint  to this service. Our adjudicator thought  that Capital One could have 
done more for Mrs P and thought that Capital One should pay Mrs P £300 for the trouble and upset 
that had been caused.  Capital One didnt agree,  and although  it accepted that it could have done 
more, it thought  £100  was enough to settle the complaint. Mrs P didnt think  the £100 offer was fair. 
And because  of this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the information  available to me, I currently agree Capital One should pay Mrs P 
some compensation.  But I dont £300 is fair way to resolve this complaint. I think Capital One should  
pay Mrs P £100 and remove the final credit  search  from her file. Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN70327873Mrs P was unhappy  with the application process as a whole, saying that she shouldnt  have been 
allowed to continue with the application if incorrect  information  had been submitted. I dont think  
Capital One has done anything wrong in allowing Mrs Ps application to be processed when she input 
the wrong information  into the form. And I think there was a responsibility  on Mrs P, to check  the 
information she was submitting was correct. 
Capital One has a responsibility to ensure where  the information doesnt appear correct, to request 
additional information to check the identity of the consumer and to prevent fraudulent applications 
from being  processed. This is also stated in the terms and conditions  of the account  that Ive seen. So 
I think  Capital One has acted fairly  here.
Its clear Mrs P was concerned over the number  of searches that visible on her credit file. I dont think  
Capital One has done anything wrong when carrying  out searches on Mrs P. But I am going to ask 
Capital One to remove  the final credit  search from Mrs Ps account. Mrs P didnt respond to Capital  
Ones email  asking for her to confirm her identity. And so I can understand why Mrs P thought  the 
application had been cancelled. Capital  One made a final check on Mrs P to see if it could verify her 
with the information it already had. And I dont  think that this final check ought to have been carried 
out without confirming whether or not Mrs P still wanted the card. 
Capital One should have checked to see if Mrs P still wanted the card before sending it to her. It also 
sent the card to Mrs P using the wrong  postcode. Capital One ought  to have known that the address 
information wasnt  correct  given that Mrs P had told them about this before. But Mrs P received the 
card, activated it and used it. So it seems to me she still wanted the credit.  And if she didnt, I would 
have expected  her to have cancelled the card and closed the account. So although  I agree  Capital 
One could have done things  better here, I dont think Mrs P has lost out as a result.
Capital One has said it could have been more helpful when it spoke to Mrs P. It could  have let her 
know she could still continue the application without further  credit searches if she provided information  
to verify  her identity. Capital One confirmed it would  send Mrs P a final response to her complaint, but 
it didnt do this for quite some time. And the response didnt give Mrs P with much  of an explanation  
about what had happened. So Capital One could  have dealt with this better.
I think  Mrs P spent some time trying to resolve this issue. And I imagine it must have been frustrating 
for her when she made attempts to change the address on file. I think  Capital One could have been 
clearer with her in the way it communicated  with her  both when she spoke to them on the phone 
and when it didnt check she still wanted a new card. And so I currently think  Capital  One should pay 
£100 for the trouble  and upset this situation has caused Mrs P. And it should  remove the final search  
from her credit file.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Capital One (Europe)  plc should pay £100 compensation  to Mrs P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mrs P to accept  or reject  my 
decision before 27 April 2019.
Ref: DRN7032787