K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Santander  UK Plc (Santander) incorrectly  says he still has an outstanding  
balance on his mortgage account after he cleared the balance in 2014.  Hes also unhappy 
fees and insurance  premiums have been  applied to his account and not refunded. 
background
Mr C took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in May 1989 for around £60,500. 
The mortgage was sold by Santanders predecessor but Ill refer to Santander only. A great 
deal has happened  over the years  and both parties  have given us a lot of information. But Ill 
summarise whats  happened which is relevant  to my decision only.  
Mr Cs told us in 1991 he was unable to continue  working due to a medical  condition.  He 
continued to make payments towards  the account  he says through  support offered by the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) mortgage interest scheme  which was topped up 
using his own funds.  But since  that point Santander says, arrears  have built on his account 
which has resulted  in legal action being  taken on a number of occasions. 
Mr C has made a number of complaints to Santander about the arrears on his account. But 
Santander has maintained theyve been added correctly. Following one of his complaints, 
Santander accepted itd incorrectly  added  litigation  fees to his account. Instead,  it said it 
shouldve referred  him to its mortgage assist department due to his health in 2012 when the 
department was first set up. So around  November 2017, it agreed to refund the litigation fees 
applied since that point. Its told us it has applied five fees to Mr Cs account  and theyve  all 
been refunded.  Mr C doesnt  agree  the fees have  been refunded. He also says hes been 
charged buildings insurance premiums  incorrectly  and these werent  refunded either. 
In 2014, Mr C made a payment of around £60,506 to clear his mortgage as this was the 
amount he originally borrowed.  In July 2014,  Santander  wrote to him saying there was still 
around a further  £23,024 outstanding.  Mr C disagrees there is anything left to pay on the 
account. Instead, he thinks Santander  owes him money. Since  2014  regular payments have 
continued to be made  towards the account from the DWP. 
Unable to resolve  things with Santander, Mr C made a number of complaints to our service 
about his mortgage. Another Ombudsman  issued a jurisdiction  decision in November 2020. 
She said, having looked at everything, we could only consider whether  Santander:
incorrectly pursued Mr C for the amount it said was still outstanding
failed to refund (or incorrectly applied) fees and insurance premiums since 2012 
So this decision is about those two points only. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint about these points.  She thought it was clear 
the balance hadnt been cleared in 2014  and she wasnt satisfied any further  fees had been 
added to the account. Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and still thought we should be 
able to look at all of his complaint points. As things werent resolved at that stage, its been 
passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN76378842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I understand Mr Cs been through a number  of very difficult  years and hes had a 
lot to deal with whilst weve  looked into things. So I thank him for taking the time to give us 
the information he has. 
Outstanding balance
Santanders given  us statements of Mr Cs account,  some contact notes  and letters that 
were sent to him and his legal representatives  since 2012. These letters outline how much  
Mr C needs to pay to redeem his mortgage   around  £84,000. Once Mr C made the 
lumpsum payment to his account in 2014, he received a further letter  in July 2014  saying he 
still needs to pay £23,024.91  to redeem the mortgage in full. 
Santanders given  us a breakdown of Mr Cs account and copies of his statements. And it 
seems from this information his account  balance increased over the years   and mostly by 
2006  because of the fees and interest  added to his account. I understand Mr C thinks  this 
wasnt done correctly   and he was charged  too much interest  because  Santander  was 
applying his payments from the DWP incorrectly. But as explained above and in our 
jurisdiction decision,  thats something I cant look into as part of this complaint.
I can see the DWP has continued making  payments to Mr Cs mortgage account but I 
havent seen anything to suggest hes paid the outstanding  amount  off in full. I appreciate  he 
said he doesnt think he owes anything further on his mortgage. And instead he thinks  funds 
are owed to him by Santander. But Ive not seen anything to persuade me this is correct.  
And most of the reasons Mr Cs given as to why he thinks Santander  owes  him money are 
things weve  told him we cant look into.
Legal fees and building  insurance
Santanders given  us details of the fees that have been added to Mr Cs account since 2012. 
Its also given us a screenshot  to show a payment of £2829.20 was made to his account 
around the end of November 2017  and Mr Cs given us his summary statement for 2017 
which says the same thing. So Im satisfied the only legal fees that were charged since  2012 
have been refunded. 
Mr Cs said hes been incorrectly charged  insurance premiums which havent been refunded. 
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  any premiums  have  been  charged since 2012.  So I 
dont agree Santanders done anything wrong. I know  Mr Cs also raised concerns  about 
premiums charged from around 1998 until 2003 and a refund of those  premiums  that was 
meant to be paid. But as Ive explained,  I cant consider that as part of this complaint.  
Overall, based on everything  Ive seen in this complaint,  whilst  I understand Mr C has been 
through a very difficult time, I cant say Santander  has done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 4 April 2021.
Ref: DRN76378843Nadya Neve
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7637884