K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1994 alongside  a credit card. Mr S says Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. I note that this was a postal application with no apparent  involvement  from a 
representative. Ive seen a copy of the application form and theres  nothing  on this form 
to indicate Mr S would  have had to take PPI to get the credit  card.  Instead  it gave  Mr S a 
choice. Mr S ticked specifically to take PPI and signed the form. I appreciate that the 
specific instruction on the application  form was to write Yes in the box to take PPI. 
However, given that the other  selections on the form have also been made via a tick, I 
think that that the tick in the box for PPI was a clear indication that Mr S selected PPI 
and I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that this tick wasnt completed by Mr S 
at the time of signing the application form overall.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold,  BoS got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because  BoS 
didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about his existing 
repayment means at the time of the sale and the amount of monthly benefit of the policy.  
But these  points dont  change my decision.  The PPI policy would have paid out in addition to 
Ref: DRN70778192Mr S sick pay and savings and could have done so potentially for a much  longer period of 
time. And the cost of the policy was relatively  low in comparison to the benefit  provided.
what the Bank of Scotland plc needs to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest  he paid because of 
that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr S the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest if Mr S 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077819