K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out the policy in September 2010  during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H has himself said that he only vaguely remembers  the events of the sale.  Originally he 
said he was pretty sure that getting  the credit card was contingent upon having the PPI. 
However Mr H didnt  agree to the PPI when  he first applied for the card. It was when he rang 
Capital One to activate the card that he was sold PPI. Mr H subsequently said that he 
vaguely remembers being told that to activate the card he needed to buy PPI.
Looking at the call script  that was in use at the time, advisors made it clear that PPI was 
optional. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest that something different happened on this 
occasion. Overall Im satisfied that Mr H would have been given a choice about buying the 
policy. It seems  to me that Mr H probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt  have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Mr H, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr H with enough information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H would have received three months full pay from his employer if he was off sick. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr H would  have 
received full pay for. Mr H has told us he had some savings but having the policy  would have 
allowed him to retain these or use them to cover  other outgoings at what  would have been  a 
difficult time.
Mr H has said that his father would have  bailed  him out in extreme circumstances. But 
having the policy would have prevented the circumstances  from becoming extreme. 
Presumably asking relatives  for money  would be a last resort. And other  people  cant always  
be relied upon as their circumstances can change. So I think the policy could  have provided  
a useful benefit to Mr H.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information about  the policy as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
Ref: DRN75990712those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  
that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. 
Because Capital  One didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
As far as Im aware, the PPI is still running  on the credit card. Mr H may wish to consider 
whether he still requires the policy  and, if not, he should arrange to cancel it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7599071