K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
Ms W took out PPI during  a phone call with the business in 2003. The policy  was designed 
to protect  her card repayments in the event she was off work sick, through accident or if she 
was made  unemployed. It cost 79 pence for every  £100 she owed on the card.  And it would 
pay out a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding  balance for up to 12 months upon 
successful claim.
Ms W told us that at the time of taking out PPI she was working,  entitled  to statutory sick 
pay, she didnt  have any other means such as savings and she was in good health.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought Ms W had been given a 
choice and there was nothing  to suggest shed lost out such that Barclays should give her 
back everything she paid for the policy. But Capital Ones  offer to pay back  to Ms W some  of 
the cost due to high commission was fair in the circumstances.
Ms W disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Ms W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Capital One no longer  has a copy of the call recording, which isnt surprising given the 
time that has passed. But Capital One has provided  a copy of the telephone call script it 
says  and which I accept on the balance  of probabilities  was used during the phone  
call Ms W had when  she took out PPI. And based  on this I think the representative made  
it clear to Ms W that she didnt  have to take the policy out but that she chose to do so 
without undue pressure.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong  she 
didnt have any enhanced sick pay or savings to fall back on for example. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN71962622This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms 
W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said - but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Ms W hasnt suffered loss as a result of 
taking out PPI to the extent that Capital One (Europe) Plc have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms W.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7196262