K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains Uncle Buck Finance  LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In brief summary however, I concluded  Uncle  Buck shouldnt have given Mr P the last of the 
three loans  it had agreed for him. I invited both parties to the complaint to respond to my 
provisional findings.
Mr P responded to say he had nothing further to add. Uncle Buck  had not responded at the 
time of writing, and as the deadline  in my provisional decision has passed the case  has been 
returned to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered once  again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach  
to complaints about short-term lending - including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
As neither party to the complaint has put forward  any new evidence or arguments  I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
think Uncle Buck should have  given  Mr P loan 3.
putting things right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr P loan 3, so its not right that he should have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges  on this, or have it affect  his credit file in a negative  way. So to put 
things right I direct Uncle Buck to:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loan 3.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr P which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr P originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
should give Mr P a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if Mr P asks for one.
Ref: DRN78489732my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ps 
complaint in part and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to take the actions outlined in the 
putting things right  section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78489733COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr P took three loans with Uncle  Buck  in January and February 2014. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate  
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 09/01/2014 24/01/2014 1 £200.00 £269.90
2 27/01/2014 25/02/2014 1 £400.00 £539.80
3 26/02/2014 24/05/2014 1 £350.00 £472.33
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint, concluding Uncle Buck shouldnt have  given Mr P loans 2 or 
3. Uncle Buck disagreed and the case has now been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Uncle Buck had to assess Mr Ps applications  for borrowing to check  if he could  afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed  without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances.  Uncle  Bucks  checks  could have taken into account  a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments  and Mr Ps income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough 
checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest Uncle  Buck should have done more to establish  that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr P. These  factors include:
Mr P having  a low income (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid  being especially  high (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
Mr P having  a large number of loans and/or having these  loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, 
or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable  for Mr P.
Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay  his loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money  to make 
the repayments could of course  be an indicator  that Mr P was able to repay his loans sustainably. But 
Ref: DRN78489734it doesnt automatically  follow that this is the case. The FCAs  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  
states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue  difficulties and in particular, made on 
time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments  and without having  to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought  reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments without borrowing further,  then it follows that it should conclude those  repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context, and thought  
about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded  proportionate  checks would  have revealed Mr P had a number  of other 
short-term loans with other lenders which  were outstanding when he applied  for loan 2. She argued 
this was evidence that Mr P was having  problems managing his money  and, given the amounts 
outstanding to other lenders, loans 2 and 3 were unaffordable for him in any event.
I can see Uncle Bucks credit checks did identify short-term lending, though its unclear to me if very 
recently taken  loans  would have shown  up. Uncle  Buck  has said it used a near real-time checking 
service  but my understanding is that only loans from lenders which had subscribed to that service 
would have appeared  on a near real-time basis. So I cant be confident that all of Mr Ps other short-
term loans would  have  been revealed by these checks, especially as he tended to take and repay  
loans in fairly quick succession.
Its clear from the information Mr Ps provided  to this service that he had a large amount of other 
short-term borrowing at around the time he was borrowing from Uncle Buck. Enough, in my view,  to 
give a responsible lender  serious concerns about the way he was managing his finances and the 
sustainability of any prospective lending for him.
But that doesnt mean  that Uncle Buck  necessarily would, or should, have been aware  of this. 
Because Im unconvinced  that Uncle Bucks credit checks would have revealed all of Mr Ps short-
term credit commitments, I think  it would  have had to have gone a step further  to discover this 
situation. 
So for me to be able to say that Uncle Buck should have become fully aware  of Mr Ps other short-
term borrowing,  Id have to take the view that its checks had not been proportionate and it should  
have done more.  I understand our adjudicator thought the circumstances of Mr Ps borrowing 
suggested Uncle Buck should have done more when  he applied for loan 2. 
Its true that Mr P asked  to borrow twice as much, and he returned for this loan just three days after 
repaying loan 1. However, I dont think this is quite enough  for me to be able to say that Uncle Buck  
should have done more  at this point. After all, its possible  that Mr P could have encountered two 
situations in quick succession that meant he needed to take a short-term loan and, overall, Im 
inclined to give Uncle Buck  the benefit  of the doubt here.
I take a different view for loan 3. Mr P appears to have initially applied for loan 3 on the same day he 
repaid loan 2. Uncle Bucks notes show Mr P applied  for £400,  £500 and then £600 and all of these 
applications were declined. The next day he applied for £350 and this was accepted,  becoming loan 
3. By this point  I think  there  were a number  of concerning  aspects of the situation which lead me to 
conclude that Uncle Buck  should have done more before agreeing loan 3:
this would  be Mr Ps third loan in less than two months
Mr P was beginning to display a pattern of returning for loans of a greater or similar size 
immediately after repaying his most recent one
Mr Ps application behaviour suggested he was frequently running out of money
Ref: DRN78489735Its not uncommon for a borrower  exhibiting  the pattern of behaviour Ive outlined above, to be 
repaying multiple other short-term lenders. Repaying one lender tends to create a shortfall  in the 
borrowers finances,  meaning they need to borrow again to cover their other reasonable living 
expenses. In light of this I think more  robust checking of Mr Ps other short-term  commitments would  
have been proportionate before granting loan 3.
As I suggested earlier in this decision, I think such checks would have revealed Mr P had enough 
other short-term  lending to lead to serious  concerns about  the management of his finances and 
whether any further loans he was given  would  be sustainable. I dont  think a responsible lender would 
have given Mr P loan 3 if it had this knowledge. It follows  that I dont think Uncle  Buck would have 
given Mr P loan 3 had it carried out proportionate checks, and was therefore  wrong  to give him this 
loan.
putting things  right
Uncle Buck shouldnt have given Mr P loan 3, so its not right that he should have had to pay interest,  
fees or charges on this, or have it affect his credit file in a negative way. So to put things right I intend 
to direct it to:
E.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards  interest,  fees and charges  on 
loan 3.
F.Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr P which were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made  the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
G.Pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
H.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if Mr P asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to reply to my provisional decision by 30 April 2019. I will 
then review the case again.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7848973