K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains after his motor insurance policy, bought through  One Sure Insurance Limited 
(One Sure), was cancelled after premium payments were  missed. Mr J is unhappy with the 
service he received and feels  that the policy terms and conditions  were not followed. 
background
Mr J bought a motor insurance policy  through a broker, One Sure  in October  2018.  The 
policy was taken out with an initial deposit payment,  with the remainder of the premium  
being due within 28 days. At the end of this period, the payment had not been received and 
a late payment fee was applied. One Sure attempted to contact  Mr J by leaving him a 
voicemail message  and sending him text messages. 
At the end of November 2018,  Mr J called One Sure and informed them  that he wasnt  
happy with the level of service he had received. In particular, that the initial  documentation  
he had received included an incorrect vehicle registration number. One Sure  apologised for 
this and explained that it was a result of human  error and they had rectified it with new 
documentation as soon as they were made  aware.  
During this call, Mr J was also offered the option to cancel the policy.  However,  he was 
subsequently made  aware that this wasnt possible as there  appeared to be a third party  
claim being made on the policy.  Mr J was also told that the insurer  would be issuing him with 
a seven day notice  of cancellation due to the non-payment of the remainder of the policy  
premium. 
Mr Js insurer  cancelled the policy after this notice  period lapsed without payment. However, 
One Sure managed  to revoke this after a call from Mr J on the same  day. This was possible 
after Mr J entered into a finance agreement  for the remaining premium with a third party,  
repayable through a direct debit.  
Following failed direct debit payments and a default  being issued, Mr J was given a further 
notice of cancellation. Mr J made  a payment  towards the outstanding amount and also got 
an agreement to extend the notice  period  by a few days. However, after a further  default  and 
the passing of the notice period, the insurer cancelled the policy.
Mr J was not happy that the policy was cancelled or with the level of service he had 
received, and brought his complaint to our service. He said that policy  documentation and 
direct debit mandates had incorrect information  on and that he had difficulty  getting  through 
to anyone over the phone at times.  At one point  he could not be told whether he had 
breakdown cover or not. He also said that when he was considering  cancelling  the policy  he 
had been given a particular point  of contact, but that had been removed. Mr J has said that 
this was a breach of the policy terms and conditions and caused him to miss payments.
Our investigator looked at it and agreed that mistakes had been made. However, they 
concluded that One Sure were not responsible for cancelling the policy  or the impact  this 
had, as this was a decision  made by the insurer. Mr J didnt agree and asked for his 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN74958582Mr J has asked One Sure to remove any markers and adverse information on his credit file 
relating to the cancellation of this policy. However, it was cancelled  at the request of the 
insurer, due to the non-payment  of premium to a third-party finance  agreement.  One Sure  
werent responsible  for cancelling the policy and so I cannot  uphold this element  of the 
complaint against  them.
Mr J has stated that he didnt make some payments to the policy  due to the service  he 
received and the errors made by One Sure.  One of these acknowledged  by One Sure, was 
that documentation was issued to Mr J that included incorrect personal information. Whilst I 
appreciate that this would  have been frustrating  for Mr J, it was rectified  very quickly when 
he made them aware and this occurred during an initial cooling-off period. Mr J would have  
been able to cancel the policy  then if he didnt want to continue with it. 
Mr J has also said that he was coerced into continuing with the policy by being offered  one 
point of contact  at One Sure. This was at a time where Mr J had called One Sure  to discuss 
the possibility  of cancelling the policy. However,  as a claim by a third-party had begun,    
One Sure would no longer  agree to cancel the policy and pointed  to this being  included in 
the terms and conditions. I can see that Mr J was given one team  leader at One Sure, that 
he was able to call with any queries.  However, I think its reasonable that One Sure  couldnt  
offer this once the team leader had changed roles  and I havent seen enough to conclude  
that this was guaranteed  indefinitely or made a condition of the policy going forward.  
One Sure are not responsible for the decision to cancel this policy  and so I cannot  ask them  
to do anything in regard to how this is recorded on Mr Js credit  file. I am also satisfied  they 
corrected any incorrect information at the inception  of the policy  quickly  and without 
significant impact to Mr J. I also dont feel One Sure need to compensate Mr J for the delay 
in letting him know whether he had any breakdown cover and for no longer  being able to 
provide one team leader as a point  of contact. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495858