K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (Oakbrook) is holding her liable  for a loan 
she says she didnt  take out.
background
In August  2018,  Mrs H befriended  a man online who she now believes was a fraudster. He 
told her that he was a soldier based abroad without access  to normal  banking  facilities,  and 
that he wouldnt be paid until December 2018  when he was due to finish  his duty.
Over time he asked  her to send money to help him, which she did. He also asked her to 
share sensitive information such as her bank statements under the guise that he wanted to 
keep track  of what he owed. 
In September  2018, a loan was taken out in Mrs Hs name with Oakbrook for £3,500.  It isnt 
disputed that these funds were  paid into Mrs Hs account and that she then paid the funds 
on at the instruction of the fraudster.  
Mrs H says she didnt know that a loan had been taken out. She returned  from holiday in 
October 2018 to find post from several  loan companies in relation to recent loans taken out 
in her name, including  one with Oakbrook.
The fraudster told Mrs H that his phone had been hacked  and so she initially  thought  that 
might be how this had happened. But Mrs H later explained shed been  duped. 
Mrs H says she was told by the fraudster that his mother was in urgent need of medical 
attention and that his mothers friend  would be helping. The fraudster told Mrs H to expect  
funds into her account and asked her to use it to pay to the doctors treating his mother. 
Mrs H says she thought  this was where  the funds  had come from and that shed sent them  
on believing she was paying a doctor for this treatment.
Mrs H complained that she shouldnt be held liable  for the loan on the basis  that she didnt 
take it out, she doesnt now have  the money, and she cant  afford the repayments.  Mrs H 
has pointed out that there  are several inaccuracies  in the loan application and that the email 
address and telephone  number provided  are not hers.
Oakbrook say Mrs H is liable because she shared her bank information with a third party.  It 
also said she did receive the loan funds and paid them out herself.
Mrs H complained to our service; she let us know that she is on medication of which the side 
effects include affecting her memory  and concentration.  She was Mrs H has also provided 
us with screenshots of her conversations with the fraudster  she says these show she was 
the victim of a scam.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint; she explained she didnt think Mrs H had taken out 
the loan or known about it at the time. She also didnt think  it would be fair to require Mrs H 
to repay  the principal  sum paid into her account because she was satisfied Mrs H hadnt 
been aware of the loan and had acted in good  faith. 
She recommended that Oakbrook:
Write  off the debt in full
Ref: DRN77314942Reimburse Mrs H for any repayments  made and apply 8% interest to that amount
Remove any record of the debt from credit reference agencies
Oakbrook didnt agree; it offered to waive the interest on the loan but said she should  still be 
responsible for the sum paid to her.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for similar  reasons.
Ive reviewed the messages Mrs H has provided  and Im persuaded that she was the victim 
of a romance  scam. Its clear they were  in regular contact and that Mrs H was led to believe 
he cared for her.
Did Mrs H take out the loan?
It doesnt appear to be disputed  that Mrs H didnt take out the loan herself. But for clarity I 
agree that the evidence suggests a third party impersonated her. 
I say this because:
Mrs Hs account activity and screenshots of her regular conversations with the 
fraudster support the narrative that she has been  the victim of a romance scam.
The screenshots of these conversations  set out both where the fraudster tells her the 
funds are coming from (his mothers friend) and show  her informing him when she 
finds out there are loans in her name.
The email address and phone number  on the application dont match Mrs Hs 
genuine information.
The IP address  used  to apply for the loan was based a different city than Mrs H 
resides in and the broadband provider  used was also different from Mrs Hs.
There are other inaccuracies in the application  such as in relation to Mrs Hs 
employment information - suggesting the person completing the application had 
limited information about her.
As a starting point,  I therefore  agree it wouldnt be appropriate for Oakbrook to seek  to apply 
the terms of the loan to someone  that wasnt a party to it. And so, I think  Oakbrook should  
waive any interest or charges applied to the loan and ensure no information is reported to 
credit reference agencies in relation to it.
Should Mrs H be responsible for the principal sum paid to her?
I can understand why Oakbrook expects Mrs H to return  the funds it paid to her, even if it 
had made  a mistake  in sending them. However,  having considered  the matter carefully I 
dont think this would be fair in the circumstances.
This is because:
Ref: DRN77314943Mrs H is in a different position  now from when the funds were first paid to her. She 
has paid them on and no longer has the funds to return. Mrs H hasnt benefitted  from 
these funds.
In light of the reasons she was given by the fraudster for making the payments,  and 
her refusal to continue  sending  her own money, Im persuaded that Mrs H wouldnt 
have sent this £3,500  to the fraudster had she not received  it into the account first.
Mrs H has acted in good  faith - as Ive said above, she appears to have been the 
victim of a romance scam. I find the messages shes shared  to be persuasive;  they 
show that this fraudster used sophisticated techniques to apply pressure and a sense 
of urgency to manipulate Mrs H.
Im persuaded that Mrs H didnt realise the funds had come  from a loan and that she 
believed they were from someone  helping the fraudsters mother. Again,  the 
messages support  this and show she wasnt expecting to have to repay the funds. 
Rather she was expecting repayment  from the fraudster for the personal funds she 
had previously sent him.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained I uphold this complaint and require Oakbrook Finance Limited to:
Write  off the loan.
Reimburse Mrs H for any repayments  made and pay her interest at 8% simple  on this 
amount from the date of the payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any information in relation to this loan from credit reference agencies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7731494