K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society   trading as Portman Building Society 
(Nationwide)- mis-sold  them  payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs W arranged  a mortgage  with Nationwide. They also bought a monthly 
premium PPI policy which was in Mr Ws sole name. According to Nationwides records this 
policy was cancelled with in the cooling off period  and all premiums  were refunded. Mr and 
Mrs W took out another policy  in 1999  which was added  to their existing mortgage. But Mr 
and Mrs W feel that this policy was mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
After doing that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs W say they werent aware  they had the policy. Its not entirely clear how the 
policy was sold to Mr and Mrs W. But however the policy  was sold, Nationwide  shouldve 
made Mr and Mrs W aware they had a choice in buying the policy. It has provided  copies of 
Mr and Mrs Ws paperwork from the time of the sale. The copy of their PPI application form 
thats been provided isnt very clear  but I can see it was taken out in Mr Ws name and an 
option of what  level of cover was needed  has been  selected. This was also done after theyd 
taken out their mortgage and they had previously opted for - and cancelled - a PPI policy. So 
I think its likely Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice about whether to take it out or not, 
although I can understand why they cant remember this. 
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide recommended they take the PPI. Based on my experience of 
how Nationwide usually  sold policies at the time, I think its possible Nationwide explained  the 
benefits of taking PPI and the possible consequences if they didnt.  But I dont think its likely  
it gave them specific advice about whether to buy the policy. So this meant it didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs W got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Mr and Mrs W say they werent made  aware of all of the terms. Looking at everything  Ive 
been given, its possible the information Nationwide gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances 
at the time (as the policy was only in his name) it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Mr and Mrs W say Mr W had a generous level of sick pay benefits from his employer. But 
the PPI would have paid out alongside  these  benefits. Mr and Mrs W had borrowed funds 
against a large  and long term financial commitment, which was secured on their home.  So I 
think having the security  that Mr Ws share of the mortgage repayments would be made  if he 
was unable to work  would have been  important to them. So it looks  like the policy would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Ref: DRN73028862It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. Which  means  Nationwide doesnt have 
to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. 
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
I know Mr and Mrs W feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve  put 
time and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve 
raised, including what theyve said about  the fact Mr Ws employer would  have covered the 
mortgage repayments for two years. But it seems like at the time they took out PPI they 
werent aware of this option with Mr Ws employer. 
As they had already cancelled a policy previously,  I think they would  have been  aware  they 
could have cancelled  the policy if it no longer useful to them. So this point doesnt change 
my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay 
back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7302886