K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  has not been of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr M took receipt of a new car in March 2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with MBFS. He had problems with the car; a brief summary is as follows:
August 2017  sluggish acceleration; no upward gear change;  brake assist illuminated;  
keyless entry inoperable; reverse camera freezes; vibration through  vehicle in idle; poor 
radio reception; engine revving  when  changing gear;
October 2017  engine  vibration still an issue;
February 2018  poor gear changing;  rattling when car switches off;
July 2018  vibration at speed;  jerky  gear change; harsh vibration in idle; noisy  engine.
In October  2018 the dealership agreed to take the car back  and clear  the finance  for Mr M. 
They also reimbursed most of Mr Ms deposit and sent him a cheque  for £1,000.
Mr M complained to MBFS but they didnt agree to provide any further redress so he 
contacted this service.
Our adjudicator spoke  with MBFS and they agreed to make  a further offer.  They said theyd 
pay back the remaining  deposit of £892.46; would reimburse 10% of the 22 instalments 
Mr M had made towards his finance  agreement and also pay him £250 in respect  of the 
trouble and upset  that had been  caused. The adjudicator thought this was a reasonable 
offer. 
But Mr M didnt agree.  He said the problems with the car had almost led to a fatal accident 
and had been extremely stressful for his partner. He didnt think the redress  that had been 
provided had been  sufficient and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here 
I have to base  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it. 
Ref: DRN70070832The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I dont think MBFS are disputing the fact that this car wasnt  of satisfactory quality but for the 
avoidance of doubt I would explain that I dont think it was either.
There were several issues reported  from relatively early on and I note that the dealership 
were unable to replicate  some of them. But there were frequent  reports of vibration, reported  
within the first six months, that the dealership  clearly  failed to remedy. Im persuaded that as 
these problems were  identified after only five months of ownership and after just 6,500 miles,  
the car most  probably  had, or was developing, those faults at the point of sale. Its not 
possible to commission an independent report to check  these  faults as the car was returned 
some time ago; but I am persuaded  that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality and that it 
would be fair to allow Mr M to reject  it.
In those circumstances this service would usually ask the business to take the car back; end 
the finance agreement and refund Mr Ms deposit. Wed also usually consider whether any of 
the monthly instalments should be returned  in respect of the lack of use that has been 
experienced. I can see that Mr M has had to return the car frequently but Ive also reviewed 
the mileage thats  been completed and can see that hes been able to cover more than 
average mileage,  albeit  in a car that was proving  unreliable. In those circumstances I think 
MBFSs offer of a refund of 10% of payments is reasonable.
Wed also usually consider some  compensation for the trouble and upset caused and having 
reviewed the evidence I think MBFSs suggestion  of £250 is reasonable in the 
circumstances. And, overall,  I think the redress thats now offered is fair and reasonable and 
Im therefore  not asking  MBFS  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  to:
reimburse the remaining deposit of £892.46;
reimburse 10% of the 22 monthly  payments  totalling £832.67;
pay Mr M £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7007083