K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs E say Nationwide Building  Society  (trading as The Derbyshire Building 
Society) mis-sold  them the PPI. The policy covered both Mr and Mrs E. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered that this policy was sold in a meeting  where Nationwide  made a 
recommendation to take out PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not be able to 
remember this.
I say this because  Ive seen some  of the paperwork completed at the time of sale.  
In particular, the mortgage  application. Section 15 of the application was for PPI. 
Some of Mr and Mrs Es personal details have  been  typed on the form along with the 
benefit level required and the qualifying period before a claim could be made.  
Ive also noted  that section  16, which offered building  and contents  insurance has 
been marked through, presumably  by with Mrs E as her name  has been signed next 
to it. Its been hand written Please  could  you contact  us about buildingscontents. 
We did not agree at initial appointment to have this.
In my opinion, this suggests that Mr and Mrs E were aware  that taking insurance was 
not a condition of their mortgage as they felt that they didnt have to take buildings  
and contents insurance.  Mr and Mrs E have signed the overall  application. 
Ive also considered the mortgage offer letter dated 11 March  2004. This document 
doesnt make any reference  to PPI being  a condition of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs E have  said that they took PPI to have peace of mind, but also that they 
felt that they had to have PPI. I agree with Mr and Mrs E that PPI can provide some 
peace of mind. 
They may have  felt that, based on their circumstances, they wanted  to have PPI to 
help protect their mortgage repayments  if they were made unemployed or if either of 
them were  unwell and unable to work. But I havent  seen evidence  to conclude  that it 
was the Nationwide adviser  that caused  them  to feel like this.
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Nationwide  presented PPI as 
optional and Mr and Mrs E chose to take it out 
Ref: DRN78900852Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,   
I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  Ive noted that Mr and Mrs E have raised this a main  
complaint point. 
But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for them if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover and I dont think that Mr and Mrs E have lost out 
because of anything  that Nationwide might  have done wrong. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs E have  said - including  what theyve said about  
their existing means of making their repayments,  but I still think  that the recommendation to 
take PPI was suitable and that the policy was right for them as the PPI would  have paid out 
for longer than their existing means would have lasted for. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs E paid on their policy  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Es policy was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Es commission was 
less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  
Nationwide treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs E back  any 
of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7890085