K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality.  He wants to reject  the vehicle  and end the 
agreement.
background 
Mr P tells us he acquired this used vehicle in July 2018 through a dealer Ill call P. He says 
in early September the engine failed  and he had to have the vehicle recovered  by the AA to 
a local garage.  Mr P says the vehicle was eventually returned to P and found to need  a 
replacement engine. Mr P says he doesnt feel all the faults from the point of sale have been  
rectified. Hes since  told us BMF has terminated the agreement in early  November 2018 - 
and demanded  payment of the full amount remaining on the agreement.
BMF told us that following the breakdown  on 5 September the vehicle had been taken to P 
and repaired.  It said Mr P had been  notified the vehicle  was ready for collection - but hed 
refused to take it back.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 July 2019. I said it was my intention to 
uphold the complaint but only in part. I found  that as the repairs  had been carried  out 
successfully, Mr P was not entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement. But I felt he 
should be compensated for the period  hed been unable to use the vehicle. 
Since I issued my provisional  decision both parties  have responded. BMF says it accepts my 
provisional decision. Mr P said he felt that - as the vehicle had broken down only just over a 
week outside the 30 day point of rejection - it wasnt unreasonable to reject it. And he says 
the vehicle has now been sold for only £600  - a valuation he questions if the vehicle had 
been fully repaired.
I thank both parties for their replies.  But Ive not been provided with any additional 
information which would cause me to change my provisional view. So Ill mostly repeat it in 
my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr P experienced the disappointment  of the vehicle  breaking  down so soon after 
he acquired it. And I can understand that after such a serious failure  he would want to be 
satisfied the vehicle had been  correctly repaired.
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most  likely 
explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, I listen  to what  
the parties tell us, and I look to documentary and other evidence to help me reach  a decision 
which I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN78729942Mr Ps hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. This means BMF is responsible  
for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And if I thought the vehicle 
was not of satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect  BMF  to put things  right. 
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015.  Where goods are found not to be of satisfactory  
quality at the time of supply the CRA  gives the consumer  - dependent upon certain time 
limits - the right to reject  an item or have  it repaired.  And where the option to repair is 
exercised a further right to reject  may arise  if the repair is not successful.
In this case the vehicle broke down on 5 September - which  was outside the first 30 days 
following supply in which the short term right to reject usually has to be exercised.  A major 
part such  as an engine  should not require replacing  in such  a short  time - so I think  the 
probability is that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. This conclusion  is 
supported by the fact that BMF agreed to pay for the repairs.
I think Mr P was within his rights in requiring BMF  to take action to repair the vehicle. But it 
was also reasonable for BMF to expect that - if it had the vehicle repaired - Mr P would 
continue with the agreement.
Im aware Mr P has questioned the cost of the repairs  and whether they were  financially 
viable. But I dont think its a matter for either  him or me to query what  is a commercial 
decision for BMF. As Mr P wasnt required to pay for the repairs  I cant  see why it would be 
of relevance for him to know the cost.
After the vehicle had been repaired it was inspected by a company Ill refer to as D, on 26 
September. Ive seen  a report from D which identified  a fault with the engine misfiring. It 
seems this turned out to be a faulty  coil pack - which was replaced. And Mr P was then 
notified - on 27 September - that the vehicle  was ready to be collected. It seems he indicated 
at this point he would  not be collecting the vehicle.
The information Ive seen - including a video which seems to show  the engine running  after 
the coil pack had been replaced - indicates the vehicle  has probably been  fully repaired. So I 
dont think Mr P was entitled to reject the vehicle.  But - in practical terms - by refusing to 
collect it that is what he did. If he thought the vehicle had not been properly repaired then it 
was for him to show  this to be the case.  And - if he was able to do so - its likely he would 
have been entitled to reject the vehicle.
BMF wrote to Mr P and notified him that it had terminated  the agreement  from 2 November 
as it said he was in breach  of the agreement. Again I dont think  this was wrong. Mr P had 
made it clear  he wasnt going  to accept the vehicle  back  and BMF  was entitled to enforce the 
terms of the agreement if Mr P had not complied with them. That included  selling the vehicle 
by whatever means it deemed appropriate. And the terms and conditions  of the agreement 
permit BMF  to seek to recover any shortfall between the selling price  and the amount 
outstanding on the agreement from Mr P.
Ref: DRN78729943Where I think Mr P is entitled to be compensated  is for the period when he was unable to 
use the vehicle.  Hes told us that he was without  the vehicle for about  three  weeks  and this 
appears to be consistent with the other information  I have been  given.  The vehicle broke 
down on 5 September and wasnt ready  to be collected until 27 September.  I havent seen 
anything to show that he was provided with another vehicle - so he shouldnt have to pay for 
the period the vehicle was unusable.
Im going  to require  BMF  to reduce any payment it seeks from Mr P by remitting  the amount 
which would have been due for the period 5 September  to 27 September inclusive. In 
addition, I think Mr P should receive  £100 for the inconvenience of being without the vehicle.
I think its fair and reasonable for BMF to be allowed to deduct any sums arising  from my 
decision from the amount  it is owed  by Mr P.
In summary,  and for the reasons given above,  Im upholding this complaint but only to the 
limited extent that Ive indicated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint but only in part.
In order to settle the complaint I require  Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the following action:
1.Remit any payments  due from Mr P for the period  from 5 September 2018  to 27 
September 2018 (23 days inclusive)  and recalculate  any sums owed by Mr P under 
the agreement  accordingly.   
2.Credit £100 to Mr Ps account for the inconvenience caused  through  not having his     
vehicle. This sum is to be set against any amount  owing  on the agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
 
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872994