K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited  (trading as Money Shop)  irresponsibly 
lent to her.
background
Miss T opened an account with Money  Shop  in February 2012.  There were  a total of four 
drawdowns and for each  drawdown Miss T was due to repay  £125,  this was the principal 
plus interest. The account was fully repaid in April 2013.
Miss T complained to Money  Shop saying she was unable  to afford the borrowing and it 
shouldnt have lent to her. Money  Shop partially upheld  her complaint and as Miss T 
remained unhappy with the response, she referred  her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into her complaint and thought that Money Shop shouldnt  
have given Miss T the account from the start and recommended that interest  and charges on 
all loans, plus statutory interest, be paid to Miss T as redress.
Money Shop accepted the adjudication and offered to refund the interest and charges but 
Miss T didnt accept the offer.  Miss T has said she wants  the principal loan amounts as well 
because Money Shop  lent to her without taking  her own financial circumstances into account  
but took her ex-partners financial circumstances into account  when making its lending  
decision. Miss T has also said that she was led to believe that the account  was for her use 
but Money Shop had opened the account for the use of someone else.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly  speaking,  
this all means that Money Shop  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice,  this means it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make 
sure Miss T could  repay her loans in a sustainable  manner. 
Our adjudicator found that Money  Shop didnt carry out proportionate checks before lending 
to Miss T and had it carried  out sufficient checks,  its likely to have found that Miss T couldnt 
afford the loans. I agree  with this finding  and that Money Shop was wrong to lend to Miss T 
in the circumstances that it did. I can see that Miss T repaid the loans but encountered 
difficulties doing  this. At the time of the loan, I think there was sufficient evidence to show 
that Miss T was unable  to sustainably afford the loans.
When we find that a business has lent irresponsibly, which  is what  Money Shop has done 
here, we try to put the consumer back in the position  they wouldve been  had the loan not 
been given in the first place. The ideal situation  would  have  been  that the business never 
lent and the consumer never paid the interest and charges attached to the loan and also 
didnt get the benefit  of the loans at the time.  As it isnt possible to prevent a past event, this 
service takes the approach that a fair way to redress the wrong  done  by the business is to 
ask it to refund the cost of the loan i.e. any charges and interest  over and above the principal 
amount and add statutory  8% interest to the amount. 
Ref: DRN77244452This is what  the adjudicator has recommended here and while  I understand Miss Ts 
strength of feeling  that Money Shops lending was so irresponsible that she should also be 
given the principal borrowing here,  this isnt something I agree with. I acknowledge that there 
were issues  that arose at the time of the loan  particularly with Money Shop including 
Miss Ts ex-partners finances in determining her ability to afford the loan. The fact that 
Money Shop knew Miss T wasnt in a position  to afford the loan from the start should have 
prevented it from approving the loan facility.  But as I stated above, the lending cant be 
undone and Miss T and/or her ex-partner,  who she acknowledged she wanted to take 
borrowing on behalf of, had the benefit of the principal loan amount and so its fair for it to be 
repaid to Money Shop.
So the refund of interest and charges plus the statutory  8% is a fair way of redress in these 
circumstances and I dont  think Money Shop should pay Miss T the principal amount as part 
of her redress. As Money  Shop lent to Miss T when it shouldnt have done, it needs to put 
things right.
Ive also thought about whether Money  Shop has acted unfairly towards  Miss T in some  
other way. And having thought about this, I cant see that it did. I acknowledge that Miss T 
might have found the complaint process difficult but this isnt unusual as theres  a level of 
inconvenience associated  with a complaints process. But I dont think that Money Shop 
actively made the process more difficult or that it got something else wrong in the way it 
handled its dealing  with Miss T. 
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Miss T but I hope  that my explanation 
will help her understand why I think the offer of redress made is fair.
putting things right
refund  all interest and charges Miss T paid on all loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove adverse information about the loans from Miss Ts credit  file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Money Shop to take off tax from this interest. Money  Shop  must  
give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and require Instant Cash Loans Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7724445