K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Loans  2 Go Limited  (L2G) irresponsibly gave him a loan he couldnt 
afford to pay. 
background
Mr M was given  a loan of £250 in May 2018.  The loan was to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £56 and it had an APR of 961%. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint. He thought  that proportionate checks  
wouldve stopped  L2G from giving Mr M this loan and so he upheld the complaint. 
L2G didnt respond  to our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed  to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ms complaint.  
Having carefully considered everything  Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought it wouldve been proportionate for L2G 
to have carried out further checks  before agreeing to this loan. And he also set out why he 
thought L2G wouldnt have given  Mr M this loan if it had carried  out proportionate checks. As 
L2G didnt respond, I dont know what it thinks our adjudicator  got wrong when he looked  at 
the case.
In any event, my role here is to look at everything afresh and reach  my own conclusions. 
And having reviewed  everything provided,  I also think that proportionate checks  wouldve 
shown L2G that Mr M wasnt  in any sort of financial  position to be able to sustainably  repay  
this loan. 
In my view, proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr M was gambling 
significant sums of money and that he was unlikely to have the funds available to make the 
monthly repayments to this loan as and when they fell due. 
As L2G is expecting Mr M to pay an extraordinary  amount  of interest on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been given, I think that Mr M lost out because  of L2Gs failure to carry out 
proportionate checks before providing this loan.  This means Im upholding Mr Ms complaint 
and L2G needs to put things right.  
what L2G should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr M, L2G should:
reduce the starting balance on Mr Ms loan to £250; and
Ref: DRN76556112reduce the new starting balance on Mr Ms loan account by the amount of any 
payments Mr M made. Once the new starting  balance  wouldve been  cleared by Mr Ms 
payments so far then any payments, or partial  payments,  made after this should be 
treated as overpayments; and
refund any overpayments made if they were  any;
add interest at 8% per year simple  on any overpayments, if they were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file if the payments  hes 
already made are enough  to have  cleared the new starting  balance;
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give      
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
I would like to remind L2G of its obligation to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically 
should an outstanding balance remain on Mr Ms account  after the above is done  and it 
chooses to collect  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Loans  2 Go Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7655611