K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr H took out in 1999  when  he applied for a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr H disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. Mr H mainly  says that PPI was added without his 
knowledge and he didn't  knowingly agree to have  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think Lloyds made  Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
because the application form Mr H completed made it clear  that it was up to Mr H to say if he 
wanted PPI and hes ticked to say he required it. Mr H couldve left the box blank if he hadnt  
wanted PPI. 
I can understand why Mr H has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. But I think its 
likely that Mr H wouldve been able to see at the time that it was up to him to choose  if he 
wanted to protect  his repayments - and he signed  the completed form confirming that he 
wanted to do this. 
Lloyds said that it would  look at this complaint as if it had advised Mr H personally to take out 
the PPI. This means it not only had to give him important policy information in a clear way. It 
also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended  was suitable  for 
Mr H. Looking at the complaint  this way gives Mr Hs complaint the best chance of success  
as it imposes an extra  obligation on the bank. As its unclear how the PPI was sold,  I think  
thats fair  and its how Im going to look at Mr Hs complaint.
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr H based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time. I think its likely  that he mightve had some difficulty  affording  his 
credit card monthly  repayments for very long if he couldnt work. PPI wouldve covered him 
in the event of accident or sickness for up to 12 months per claim. 
And the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Mr H told us he didnt have any other means  to rely on to pay his credit card if he wasnt able 
to work. So I think PPI was worthwhile  for him and I cant say that Mr H didnt need PPI in his 
situation. 
Ref: DRN78222182Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr H made a claim. But Mr H chose  to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  this type of cover.  I cant see that he wouldve been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions or limitations. And Mr H couldve cancelled the 
policy at any time if his circumstances changed  and he felt the policy was becoming 
unaffordable for him.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr H wouldve made a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  find that Mr H has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve  
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Hs comments made  in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. But these points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7822218