K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr E was given six loans by Mr Lender between June 2016  and August 2018. The loans  fell 
into two distinct chains,  with a substantial gap between loans 2 and 3. Apart from the first 
loan, each of the loans  was scheduled to be repaid over several months as shown in the 
table below. Mr E has successfully repaid all his loans  and a summary of his borrowing from 
Mr Lender is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Number of 
Repayments
1 11/06/2016 25/07/2016 £     100 1
2 10/08/2016 24/08/2016 £     200 3
3 01/02/2018 25/04/2018 £     400 3
4 30/04/2018 05/06/2018 £  1,000 12
5 23/06/2018 27/06/2018 £  1,400 6
6 01/08/2018 10/10/2018 £  1,500 12
Mr Es complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think Mr Lender 
had been wrong  to give the first three loans to Mr E. But he didnt think the remaining loans 
should have been agreed. So he asked Mr Lender  to pay Mr E some  compensation.
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr E accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN71046212the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Mr Lender did some  checks before  it lent to Mr E. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen  a 
summary of those checks and I dont  think they showed anything  that should  have caused 
additional concerns to Mr Lender.  Generally, the information a consumer might see, when 
they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A 
lender might  only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences  
between the information shown to Mr Lender  by its credit checks and the information  Mr E 
thinks it should have  seen.
As I said earlier,  there was a significant gap between the repayment of loan 2 and Mr E 
asking to borrow again. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to have concluded that 
any financial  problems Mr E had faced at the time he took the first two loans had been  
resolved, and to base  its checks  accordingly. So I think that the checks Mr Lender did before 
agreeing the first three  loans were proportionate. The amounts that Mr E needed to repay  
were small compared with the disposable  income hed declared. Given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Es circumstances  at the time, and his borrowing 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first three loans. 
Ref: DRN71046213The amount  Mr E asked  to borrow on his fourth  loan increased significantly from what had 
gone before. I appreciate that the loan was repayable over a 12 month period and so the 
amounts that Mr E needed  to repay  each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a significant 
period of time.
So I think Mr Lender should have taken steps  to gain a far more  comprehensive 
understanding of Mr Es financial  circumstances than it had for the earlier loans. I dont think 
the checks Mr Lender did here were  sufficient or proportionate. I think  Mr Lender should 
have taken steps to independently verify Mr Es true financial position.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Es bank statements from the time to get a picture of what  better 
checks would have  shown  to Mr Lender. From those statements I can see that Mr E was 
borrowing from a number  of other  short term lenders at the same time he was asking for this 
loan from Mr Lender. I think that is something  that would have been identified  if Mr Lender 
had done what  I consider  to be proportionate checks here. And from that it would have been 
clear that Mr E was facing  significant  problems managing his money  and that he would be 
unlikely to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable  manner.  So I dont think  Mr Lender 
should have agreed to give this loan to him.
Mr E repaid  loan 4 after just over a month of the scheduled 12 month loan term. But, just a 
couple of weeks  later, he asked to borrow again.  And the amount of the loan he requested 
was significantly larger again. He also was scheduled to repay  this loan over only six months 
so the repayment he needed  to make each  month  had increased substantially. Mr E repaid 
that loan after just four days. But as before,  he asked to take another  even larger  loan just 
over a month later. So I think that Mr Es pattern of increasing loan amounts, early 
repayment, and reborrowing soon after repaying a loan should  have  caused  great  concerns  
to the lender.
So I think that Mr Lender should have continued  to make extensive  checks  before agreeing 
the last two loans.  And had it done so it would have seen that Mr E continued to borrow from 
a number of other short  term lenders at the same time he was asking for these  loans. As 
before that would have been a clear indication of the problems Mr E was facing managing 
his money and that he would be unlikely to be able to repay  the loans in a sustainable 
manner. So I dont  think Mr Lender  should have given loans 5 and 6 to Mr E either.
In summary  I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to given  Mr E loans 4 to 6. 
Mr Lender needs to pay Mr E some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to lend to Mr E after, and including,  the loan that 
he took on 30 April 2018 (loan 4). So for each  of those loans Mr Lender should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr E on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN71046214my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Es complaint and direct  PDL Finance Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7104621