K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr P bought a regular  premium PPI policy in 1997.  It was designed to protect his 
repayments on a mortgage with the B&B if he couldnt work due to illness,  injury or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint for the following reasons.
Mr P says that he felt like he would not be granted a mortgage  if did not take PPI and feels  
the sales advisor was incentivised  to sell PPI. B&B says it wouldve made  the optional nature  
of the PPI clear  and asked for his consent  before adding it on to his account. Where  there  is 
a dispute like this, I have to decide  what I think is more likely based on the evidence 
available  this includes Mr Ps testimony  as well as the documentary  evidence. 
Ive had a look at Mr Ps mortgage application  and can see there was a separate  section for 
PPI. There is a handwritten YES in response  to the question asking customers if they 
wanted PPI. The box requesting full cover for accident, sickness and unemployment has 
been ticked  while there was a less extensive option available. A benefit amount of £450  
has also been entered. His mortgage offer also sets out the cost of the policy after explaining 
the initial 6 months  would be free. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  B&B made it clear that Mr P didnt  
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out to cover  his mortgage repayments.  
Mr P also feels  B&B pressured  him to take the PPI by making him feel he wouldnt get the 
mortgage without  it. Pressure can be subjective so Id need persuasive evidence  to uphold  
his complaint on this basis. And while it may be that B&B encouraged him to take the PPI, I 
havent heard enough  to persuade me that Mr P didnt want  PPI and only took it because he 
was pressured  to take it so I dont uphold his complaint on this basis.  
Mr P says that he was advised to take out the policy but B&B say that no such  advice  was 
given. I havent  seen anything that suggests  B&B assessed his circumstances or gave him a 
tailored recommendation to take the PPI so I dont think it advised him to take the PPI. This 
means it didnt have to check  if it was right for him but it did have to make sure he got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.   
Ref: DRN72487002Its possible the information B&B gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And Mr P met the eligibility requirements  for the policy and he doesnt appear  to be affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. He also seems  to have had a need  for 
the cover  and I havent seen anything that suggests  it was unaffordable for him. 
I understand Mr P says he had good sick pay and a significant amount of savings available  
to help him make his repayments if he were unexpectedly  out of work. But as explained  
above, B&B only needed to provide clear information about the policy. And B&B did set out 
how much  Mr P would  have to pay for the cover and what  the PPI would pay out if hed 
made a claim. It was then really up to Mr P to either take the cover if he thought it was right 
for him, or decline it if he didnt feel he needed it because of the other means he had 
available. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. Which means I dont think this policy was mis-sold,  so B&B doesnt  have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
commission 
Mr Ps also remains  unhappy with the amount of commission charged on his PPI premiums  
that wasnt disclosed at the time he bought the policy. B&B has made an offer to refund 
some of the commission he was charged. 
B&B says it will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  B&B didnt tell Mr P, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
But Mr P feels  he should  get a higher  percentage than that offered by B&B.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses, like B&B, should deal with complaints  about 
PPI.
The FCA said that if a B&B got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that B&B 
should pay back the amount of commission and profit  share that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium.
B&B said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr P paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr P for the time he was out of pocket. 
Ref: DRN72487003So while Mr P has said he should  receive  more of the commission and profit share back  
because he wasnt told that B&B would receive any commission, B&B has done what  the 
rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ps particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means B&B should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling B&B to do anything more.   
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr P any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
B&B should pay back to Mr P the extra  he paid each  month  because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should also pay 
Mr P 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have  to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7248700