K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wrongly allowed her to transfer money to a 
company which  turned  out to be a scam.  Shes also complained about the way she was 
treated when she explained  what had happened.  
background
Miss A was moving to London and needed to find accommodation. She found  what  
appeared to be a letting agency  and transferred £970 to it from her HSBC  account. 
However, the agency was not what it appeared to be and Miss A received no further  contact 
from it. 
Miss A contacted HSBC to explain what had happened. She believes she was told that 
HSBC would return the money, since  shed been a victim of fraud. HSBC  explained  though 
that, since Miss A had made  the payment herself,  it wouldnt  make  a refund. 
Miss A wasnt satisfied with the banks response. It offered compensation, and ultimately  
increased its offer to £970  the amount Miss A had lost. She didnt  think that went far 
enough. One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened,  however, and thought that, 
in the circumstances, HSBCs offer was fair; he told Miss A thats what he thought. 
Miss A initially said she still thought the bank hadnt offered enough, but then appeared to 
indicate that she would, after all, accept  the offer. Our adjudicator  told HSBC, and it paid 
Miss A. However, she then said that she didnt think  the offer was fair after all. She remained 
concerned about  the way HSBC had handled her concerns.  Specifically,  she felt shed been  
discriminated against and that the bank had unfairly threatened to close  her accounts.  She 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do however agree that HSBC  has 
already done enough  to resolve her complaint, and so I shant be requiring it to any more.  
Miss A says that HSBC told her it would  provide  a refund, since  she was a victim of fraud.  I 
do think that HSBC  could have explained  a little better that what  it meant was that it would 
make a refund if someone else had taken money from Miss As account but not if, as 
happened here, she was tricked  into sending money herself. It could  have explained that it 
would try to recover money  from the receiving bank, but couldnt  guarantee that would be 
successful. In fact, HSBC did try to recover the money, but it had already been  transferred 
elsewhere. 
Miss A also complains about  the way she was treated in various contacts with HSBC. The 
adjudicator listened to call recordings but didnt think that HSBC  had been rude, or had 
discriminated against Miss A in the way she suggested. I agree with that assessment; I think  
the banks contact has been  appropriate and professional. 
Miss A also says the bank threatened to close her accounts. I can see that there  has been 
some discussion  of that, but as far as I can see it was triggered  by Miss As suggestion that 
she might  wish to take her business  elsewhere, not by any suggestion  that HSBC no longer 
wishes her to be a customer. 
Ref: DRN79859322I agree  that HSBC  was under no obligation to refund the money that Miss A was tricked into 
paying away. And, whilst the bank might have explained its policies a little more clearly,  I 
think it handed Miss As complaint fairly. In the circumstances, therefore, I agree with the 
adjudicator that, in paying Miss A £970, HSBC has done enough to resolve  her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything  further  to resolve  
Miss As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 26 December  2019..
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985932