K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) wont provide him 
with details of the fixed  fee arrangement it has in place with its panel  solicitors. 
background
Mr N has legal expenses insurance  which is underwritten  by DAS. In 2017 he made a claim 
on his policy  which related to a breach of contract issue. DAS appointed one of its panel 
solicitors to consider  the claim. However,  that firm was unable  to deal with the case because  
of its complexity and an alternative  firm was appointed. Mr N asked DAS for further 
information on the funding arrangements it had in place with that firm as he wanted  to be 
able to control expenditure on his case.  
DAS confirmed the panel solicitors in this case were  working under a fixed  fee arrangement  
but wouldnt provide further information as it said the details were  commercially sensitive. It 
said the solicitors would let Mr N know when hed used up half of the indemnity limit on his 
policy and when he was approaching the overall limit. 
Our investigator didnt  think DAS needed to do anything more  but he didnt agree. He said 
he needed information about the fixed fee arrangement  to meet  his responsibility under the 
policy terms to keep  costs  low. He argued law firms were required to provide details of their 
fee arrangements and others had done so. He didnt  accept the information  was 
commercially sensitive.  So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy  says that (subject to the other  terms and conditions) DAS will pay all 
reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the appointed representative  on a standard 
basis.  The policy doesnt say its the responsibility of the policyholder to manage those 
costs. And as DAS will be making payment under the policy  I think  its right responsibility for 
ensuring costs are reasonable and managing these on an ongoing basis  rests with it. 
I appreciate the policy also says the policyholder should take reasonable steps to keep any 
amounts DAS has to pay as low as possible. But I dont think Mr N needs to know  the details 
of the fixed fee arrangement DAS has with the panel solicitors  in order  to do that. The 
amount it will pay those  solicitors is, by definition, fixed. So it would be amounts that would 
fall outside of that arrangement which the policy is referencing  here.  
I appreciate other firms may have been prepared to disclose this information  to Mr N but that 
was for them  to decide. I dont think that means  DAS should have to disclose information  to 
him about its commercial  arrangements  with another  firm. The policy terms dont require it to 
do that. And while I can understand why Mr N wants to have this information DAS has 
explained the solicitors would let him know if there were any issues  relating to the indemnity 
limit. I think  thats reasonable and so I dont  think DAS  acted unfairly in deciding not to 
disclose further  information about the fixed fee arrangement to him. 
Ref: DRN70850432my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7085043