K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Finance 
applied unfair  charges  at the end of a hire purchase  agreement. He wants  the damage 
charge to be offset against the lower than contracted  mileage the vehicle covered during the 
period of the agreement.
background
Mr L tells us he took out a hire purchase  agreement with Skoda  in May 2015. In May 2018, 
at the end of the agreement he says it was inspected and marks were found  on the wheel 
arch. He said Skoda charged him £165 for this when he feels  it could be repaired for £50. He 
says Skoda didnt  give him the option to get the damage repaired himself. And he feels that 
the low mileage hes covered means the vehicle  wont have lost its expected value at the 
end of the agreement.
Skoda told us the vehicle was inspected by its collection agents, a company Ill refer to as 
B. It said the damage charge fell outside the fair wear and tear guidelines  of the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA). And it had applied the charge in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.  It said there was no provision within  the 
agreement to offset the damage charge against the fact that the vehicle had done less 
mileage than had been predicted at the start of the agreement. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said the damage  was 
outside BVRLA wear  and tear guidelines and the charges had been fairly  applied. He didnt 
think Skoda  was required to take account  of the lower than contracted mileage when 
considering the issue  of the damage charge.
Mr L didnt agree and said he thought Skoda should have let him have the vehicle repaired 
or showed him proof  the work  had been  done.  As its not been possible to resolve the 
complaint an ombudsman had been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr L is disappointed  at the charge being  applied in respect of damage  
he sees as no more  than fair wear  and tear. And particularly as his vehicle had covered 
considerably less mileage  than had been expected at the start of the agreement. The 
agreement itself allowed  for up to 12,000 miles to be covered before  any excess mileage  
charges would apply. It appears Mr L did a little more than 4,000 miles in the relevant period.
I understand his view that any potential loss of value of the vehicle due to the damage would 
be more than offset by the lower than expected mileage covered during the period of the 
agreement. But Im afraid thats not how things work. The terms and conditions  of the 
agreement do not require Skoda to offset  one aspect against  the other.
Ive seen the inspection report from B and the attached colour photographs. I agree with our 
adjudicator that the damage  identified  falls outside  BVRLA guidelines. And under the terms 
of the agreement I think its fair for Skoda to apply  this charge.
Ref: DRN74218302Theres no requirement for the work  to be actually carried  out as the charge can be a 
measure of the anticipated loss in value of the vehicle due to the damage.  And whilst Mr L 
says he didnt have  the chance  to repair the vehicle  I dont agree with that assertion. He 
knew the agreement  was drawing to a close and it was open  to him to have  the vehicle 
inspected and repaired himself. And I understand there was also a period of a week  between 
the inspection  and the collection of the vehicle.
The charge  itself is in line with what Id expect having regards to similar  complaints Ive 
seen. And it needs  to be considered that it includes estimated labour charges. In addition, if 
the damage was actually  to be repaired this might lead to other potential charges -such  as 
storage - being  applied.
In summary,  I think the damage charge was a reasonable estimate of the likely loss in value  
of the vehicle and associated costs.  It was applied in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the agreement. And theres no provision  or requirement for Skoda to offset the charge 
against any other part of the agreement.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr L, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7421830