K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (trading as Argos) recorded 
inaccurate information on her credit  file.
Background
Mrs H opened an account with Argos in 2006.  In May 2013  she was subject to a bankruptcy 
order and says that information about this was sent to her creditors.  In November 2018, she 
checked her credit file and found  that Argos was still recording on her account. She 
contacted Argos  and sent a copy of her bankruptcy discharge notice. Argos  amended her 
credit file to show a partial settlement on 22 May 2014. Mrs H thought  the settlement date 
should be her bankruptcy date of May 2013.
Argos says that in 2013, it received  notice  that Mrs H had entered bankruptcy and it updated 
her account  in line with this. It says it has no record of Mrs H providing her discharge from 
bankruptcy notice  in May 2014 but that when this was received in November 2018 (following 
Mrs Hs complaint) her account was updated  to show a partial  settlement date of May 2014.
Argos says that following  its final response  letter Mrs H queried the part settled status which  
it confirmed to be correct.  It says at that time it noticed a discrepancy  with the date of the 
part settlement  with two of the three credit bureaus  it reported to and so the required 
amendments were  made.
Our investigator didnt  initially uphold this complaint. He said there  were  no notes to show  
that Argos had received  the discharge notice before November 2018. He said that following 
Mrs Hs contact, Argos updated her credit file to show  a settlement date of May 2014. He 
said that it appeared Mrs H was in a payment arrangement at the time of the bankruptcy and 
that this was recorded on her credit file. He thought  that Argos  had acted fairly by updating 
Mrs Hs credit file once  it received the discharge  notice.
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators view. She said that the partial settlement recorded by 
Argos in 2014  was incorrect as the order of sequestration was made in May 2013 and her 
account should have been  closed at that time.  She said that there  was no payment plan in 
place until the settlement  date as the order of sequestration wouldnt allow preferential 
treatment of any creditor.
Following Mrs Hs comments our investigator  issued a second view. He thought  the main  
issue was when the date of settlement had been recorded. He noted that Mrs H wanted  the 
settlement date recorded as May 2013 but he said as the discharge of bankruptcy was in 
May 2014 it was right that Argos used this as the settlement date. However  he said that 
Argos was still reporting Mrs Hs account as in monthly arrears which  he didnt think  was 
correct. He thought  the monthly reporting of arears should have stopped in May 2014.
Argos didnt accept our investigators second view. It said that it hadnt reported arrears  on 
Mrs Hs account after the partial settlement date of May 2014.  It further  confirmed that a 
payment arrangement was in place prior to Mrs Hs bankruptcy.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN78779452Mrs H had an outstanding balance on her Argos account when she entered bankruptcy. 
Mrs H part settled her account  with Argos as part of her bankruptcy. Therefore it was 
correct that the status on her account  would be recorded as part settled;
Mrs Hs bankruptcy was discharged on May 2014 and, having looked through Argos  
process for dealing  with such  issues, Argos hadnt  done  anything wrong by recording the 
settlement date as May 2014;
the updated versions of the credit  reports didnt show that arrears  were reported after the 
settlement date;
there wasnt evidence  to show that Argos  received Mrs Hs discharge  of bankruptcy 
notice before November 2018. At this point it took action to update  the information 
recorded on her account;
further amendments  were needed  but I had nothing to suggest this issue caused Mrs H 
any financial loss.
I didnt uphold this complaint and no further information was provided in response to my 
provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further evidence was provided in response  to my provisional decision and so my decision 
hasnt changed.  Argos recorded Mrs Hs account  as part settled with a date of May 2014,  
which, as I explained,  reflected  the payment situation and the date of the bankruptcy  
discharge. There was no evidence of further arrears being recorded and Argos  had acted 
when it was made aware of required amendments.  Because of this, and as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I do not uphold  this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7877945