K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he got using  a hire purchase  agreement from 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS). He also says TFS didnt transfer  his full deposit, 
when he subsequently agreed to part exchange  the car.
Throughout Mr As complaint with us, he has been  represented by his daughter. But to make 
things simpler, Ill only refer to Mr A.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint and the settlement TFS should make  to Mr A.
I invited Mr A and TFS to let me have  any final comments and evidence before making my 
final decision. Mr A accepted my provisional  decision but TFS did not. In summary,  TFS 
said:
They couldnt look at a complaint about  the quality of the first car because  the dealer 
didnt involve them in the reasons for the part exchange.
They knew that Mr A was unhappy with the first vehicle,  but it the dealer made 
arrangements to sort the concerns out as a gesture of goodwill.
The first they became  aware of Mr As concerns was when  his daughter  contacted 
TFS in March 2018.
The dealer  believes the Mr A caused  the damage to the roof himself, by trying to fit 
roof bars and the damage was not there when the car was given to Mr A.
The dealer  didnt agree that Mr A could reject the first car and theres no evidence  to 
support that this option was ever available to him.
The part exchange paperwork clearly shows what Mr A had paid and agreed to. And 
theres nothing to say exactly  what Mr A was, or wasnt told, when he was given the 
part exchange paperwork.
The dealer  went above and beyond  to help Mr A to ensure he didnt lose out after the 
first car was damaged.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer TFS were hoping for  Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
the cause of the damage to the roof
Mr A says that he ordered the roof bars through the dealer, but never actually took 
possession of them. He says the first time he saw the roof bars, was when he returned  the 
Ref: DRN75955182first car to the dealer  and a member of staff brought them  in from the workshop area.  Mr A 
has provided his bank statements to show the purchase of the roof bars and subsequent 
refund.
I think Mr A has been consistent  and credible in what hes told us. I dont think  Mr A had a 
second set of roof bars which he tried to fit himself, causing damage to the roof. Mr A has 
told us that he made enquiries elsewhere,  to see if he could get the roof bars cheaper,  but in 
the end, chose to use the dealer. 
TFS have referred to an extract of Mr As complaint letter, where  they think he says the 
damage was caused by the fitting  of the roof bars. But, I think  Mr A refers to the dealer 
inspecting the damage,  when a he tried to return the car and the member of staff 
approached with the roof bars.
Mr As bank  statements  support what hes told us and I think its likely he wanted an 
accredited garage to fit the roof bars. I dont think Mr A caused the damage to the roof of the 
first car. I think the damage was there when Mr A got the first car, but he didnt notice it, until 
after hed had the car a short time.
TFSs awareness of the quality of the first car
I accept that TFS didnt  place a requirement on the dealer, to carry out a report  on the 
damage to the first cars roof and that they allowed  the dealer to try and resolve Mr As 
concerns. Under  the hire purchase agreement, TFS were the owners  of the first car, until all 
the repayments were  made. So, they had an interest  in knowing more about the cars 
condition. A report on the damage to the first car may have told us more about the quality of 
the car at the point of sale.
The dealer  didnt dispute that there was damage to the roof, and Ive concluded that I dont 
think it was Mr A who caused it. The dealer hasnt provided any job cards  to show  any 
repairs, but they say the car hasnt  been  returned  or any damage  reported. So, in the same 
way the dealer has suggested, I think its likely the dealer repaired damage.
Taking everything into consideration, I think the roof was damaged  before the car was given  
to Mr A and put right before the dealer sold the car for a second time. This means  I think the 
car provided  to Mr A, wasnt what a reasonable person would consider of satisfactory quality. 
TFS were  responsible for dealing with complaints  about the cars quality, so I think  TFS 
breached the contract they had with Mr A. 
TFS were  aware  that Mr As was unhappy  with the first car in 2016, but allowed the dealer to 
try and sort things out. We know now that the dealers efforts  gave Mr A more concerns  
when he realised he had more to pay than he thought for the second hire purchase  
agreement.
the part exchange documents
TFS says that the figures on the part exchange documents,  made it clear to Mr A the 
amounts that had been used as a deposit for purchase of the second  car. Mr A has told us 
that he wasnt really given an answer, to his questions at the time of the part exchange, 
about his original deposit. Instead, he says he was told by the dealer that he shouldnt worry 
and that they would sort everything.
Ref: DRN75955183On balance, I think Mr A would have had concerns  about the deposit he paid for the first car, 
so I think it is reasonable that he would have asked the dealer  questions.  I also think its 
likely, Mr A was given  some sort of reassurance from the dealer, even though this wasnt 
reflected in the part exchange paperwork. Taking  everything into consideration, I think Mr A 
would not have accepted  the part exchange, if he was told by the dealer that going ahead 
with the agreement, would mean  he would lose £1,259.37  after only a few weeks.
I agree  that it is likely the dealer was trying to retain Mr As as a customer. But, I dont think 
the loss of the deposit, Mr A had paid for the first car, was clearly  explained  to him. In all the 
circumstances, I still think TFS should  refund £1,259.37, which  is the difference between  the 
deposits used  in the first and second hire purchase agreements.  And TFS should pay 
interest, at an annual rate of 8% simple on this amount, from the time Mr A paid the deposit 
on the first car, because  he has been without the use of those funds.
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my 
final decision  is that Toyota  Financial Services (UK) Plc should:
-pay Mr A £1,259.37: and
-pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date Mr A paid the deposit on 
the first car, to the date of settlement.
TFS must pay these  amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts  my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the settlement amount 
from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If TFS deducts tax from any interest  it pays to Mr A, it should  provide Mr A with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75955184copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he got using  a hire purchase agreement from Toyota 
Financial Services  (UK) Plc (TFS). He also says TFS didnt transfer his full deposit, when he 
subsequently agreed to part exchange the car.
Throughout Mr As complaint  with us, he has been represented by his daughter. But to make things 
simpler, Ill only refer to Mr A.
background
In early January 2016,  Mr A got a used car from a local dealer. Mr A acquired  the car through  a hire 
purchase agreement with TFS and paid a cash deposit of around £1,600.  After  a couple of weeks,  Mr 
A tells us he noticed that the roof of the car was uneven, so he took it back to the dealer to see if he 
could return it.
Ref: DRN75955185The dealer agreed that there was a problem  with the roof, but says that the problem wasnt there 
when they sold the car to Mr A. As a solution, the dealer offered  to part exchange  the car for a 
different one. 
Mr A chose another car and the dealer arranged  for the outstanding balance  owed to TFS, to be 
repaid. The dealer  used the funds from a new hire purchase agreement in Mr As name, also with 
TFS, to purchase  the second car.
A year later,  Mr A paid a lump sum to TFS to reduce the balance of the agreement  for the second car. 
And in 2018, he asked them to confirm  what he owed.  He thought  there wouldnt be much left to 
repay, but found he owed much more than he was expecting.  Mr A saw from the information  given to 
him by TFS that the garage didnt use the full deposit hed given them  for the first car, in the 
agreement for the second car.
Mr A complained to TFS because he wanted them to give back the part of the deposit that wasnt 
transferred to the second agreement. In their response, TFS said that all the paperwork concerning 
the part exchange and the second  hire purchase agreement  was clear and signed by Mr A. Mr A 
didnt accept this and bought  his case to us.
Our investigator looked into what happened and agreed that Mr A was given all the information about 
the second hire purchase agreement before  he signed it. She wasnt persuaded by what Mr A said 
about the unsatisfactory quality  of the first cars  roof, or that the dealer had agreed that he could reject 
the car on that basis.
Mr A disagreed and said the dealer hadnt been clear about the deposit when they part exchanged 
the first car. Mr A said TFS had never given him a statement of what he owed, so he says that they 
didnt want him to see the payment history of the second agreement.
Mr A thinks the dealer  had most likely  used  the deposit  to pay for the repair costs,  before the first car 
was sold on. He also said that he couldnt  have  caused  the damage himself  as the whole of the roof 
was out of alignment, rather than just a dent.
The investigator didnt change  her conclusions,  so the case has been referred  to me to make a final 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to reach a different outcome  to the 
investigator. I think TFS should pay Mr A part of the full deposit he paid when  he purchased the first 
car. Ill explain why.
The quality of the first car supplied to Mr A.
Mr A entered  into a hire purchase agreement with TFS,  which allowed him to get the first car. Under 
this type of agreement, TFS are the supplier  of the goods. In Mr As case, the goods are a car. This 
means TFS are responsible for dealing  with complaints about the cars quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is implied  into the agreement between TFS and Mr A. The 
CRA says that goods  will be considered of satisfactory  quality where they meet  the standard  that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory,  taking into consideration the description  of the goods, 
the price paid and any other relevant circumstances. In complaints about  the quality  of a car, the price  
paid, the mileage at the time of the sale and the cars history need to be taken  into account.
In this case, the first car supplied to Mr A was a used car that had covered  around 23,500 miles  since 
it was first registered  in 2012. So, I think a reasonable person would  have different expectations of it 
Ref: DRN75955186compared to a brand new car. But, I think  those  expectations would  be more to do with wear  and tear, 
rather than significant damage to the roof.
I have asked both the dealer and Mr A for their thoughts on the damage to the roof. The dealer says 
that all cars are checked for issues before they are placed on their forecourt  to sell. The dealer has 
also provided  us with an internal invoice to show that a service and some preparation work was 
carried out, shortly before  the car was given to Mr A. There is no record of any damage to the cars 
roof before Mr A collected  it.
Mr A says that at the time he was shown  the car, because of its height, he could not have  noticed the 
damage to the roof alignment. The first time Mr A says he noticed the problem  was when he looked  at 
the car, head on, whilst walking up his driveway. Mr A took the car back to the dealer, two weeks after 
getting it and the dealer  agreed that the roof was damaged.  So, I have considered if it was likely  that 
the damage was done to the roof whilst the car was with Mr A. 
The dealer says that a possible cause of the roof damage, may have been due to someone trying to 
fit roof bars to the car themselves. Mr A says he ordered some roof bars from the dealer, shortly after 
he got the first car. He says he chose to do this because it was too expensive elsewhere. I dont think  
its likely  Mr A bought a set of roof bars himself, because he had them on order with the dealer and 
there was an arrangement for the dealer to fit them.  I dont  think it is likely  that Mr A would  have 
bought a different set and tried to have fitted  them in the meantime.
I think  Mr A has been  consistent  and credible  in what he has told us and I dont think  he noticed any 
damage to the roof straight away. Mr A has explained that the height of the car meant he could not 
see the whole of the roof and that the weather was bad when he went to collect it. 
Also, Mr A says that he has always dealt with the same  person at the dealers showroom, when hed 
bought cars in the past. The dealer has confirmed this, and Im persuaded that there would have been  
trust between  the two, with the condition  of the car. I dont think the damage would  have been obvious  
from a cursory inspection. I think its likely, Mr A only noticed it when  he returned home and the car 
was on his driveway. 
I have asked the dealer for a record of the work  carried out when the first car was part exchanged by 
Mr A. The dealer says there  is no record of any damage being repaired and they have not had any 
problems reported  by the next person  they sold the car to. The dealer said that it is likely  that any 
damage would have  been  put right by their own technicians. But, the dealer doesnt dispute that the 
damage was there.  In the absence of any job cards or records, I think the damage was easily 
corrected, at minimal  cost to the dealer.
I have found that a reasonable person would  not expect  damage  to the roof of the first car, given the 
age and mileage at the point of sale. I have also found that I dont think the damage was caused by 
Mr A in the two weeks  he had the car and that its likely  he would have only noticed the damage until 
after he took the car home. On balance, I think the damage was slight enough that it didnt need  
repairing. Or, the dealer  put it right before the car was sold to a different customer, but doesnt have a 
record of doing so. 
In all the circumstances, I think the first car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr 
A and I think  TFS breached  the contract they had with Mr A. It follows that Mr A should have been 
given a remedy at that stage. Mr A was dissatisfied with the car and he has told us he wanted  to 
reject it, soon after he got it. So, I think Mr A should have been allowed to exit the hire purchase 
agreement and have a refund of the deposit.  This didnt  happen,  so I have considered what happened  
next when the dealer arranged for a part exchange with the second car.
Ref: DRN75955187the part exchange and Mr As deposit
Mr A paid the dealer a total of £2,000 towards the first car. Some  of this was refunded by the dealer 
as Mr A didnt  need some  additional insurance  which he had initially  agreed to. This meant that the 
actual deposit paid by Mr A for the first car was £1,601.
When Mr A took the first car back,  the dealer  offered  a part exchange  and used £341.63 as a deposit 
for the second car. So, the total of the first deposit paid by Mr A didnt get used in the second hire 
purchase agreement.
The paperwork provided by TFS shows a breakdown of the second hire purchase agreement and the 
deposit used. Mr A said he and his wife asked  several  times about the initial deposit and were told 
that it would continue over to the new car. Whilst there is no record of what was said at the time, after 
taking everything into account,  I think  its very unlikely  Mr A would have gone ahead with the part 
exchange, if he was made aware of the size of the loss (over £1,000)  suffered in such a short space 
of time.
I have concluded that Mr A should have been given the opportunity to reject the first car and have his 
deposit refunded. Because the full deposit wasnt  used in the purchase of the second car, I think Mr A 
has lost out. And I think it should  have been made clearer to Mr A, that he would  be losing a 
significant portion of the first deposit  he paid to the dealer just two weeks earlier.
In all the circumstances, I think TFS should refund the difference between the two deposits used in 
the first and second hire purchase agreements. The paperwork shows that this difference  is 
£1,259.37. I also think TFS should pay interest, at an annual rate of 8% simple on this amount, from 
the time Mr A paid the deposit on the first car because he has been without the use of those funds.
the statements for the second hire purchase agreement
Mr A has explained to us that TFS didnt send him regular  statements  to show  how much he had 
repaid under the hire purchase agreement and the outstanding  balance.  The terms and conditions  of 
Mr As agreement say that he can ask them for a statement of the loan repayments  at any time.  I 
have considered this, and I can see it isnt part of the agreement  that statements  will be sent 
automatically at regular  intervals. 
TFS have told us that they sent Mr A annual statements and have provided  us with copies of what 
they sent to him in 2017 and 2018. I agree that its likely  TFS sent statements  to Mr As home  address 
at regular  intervals. So, I think TFS kept Mr A informed about the balance of his account. I accept 
what Mr A says, in that he may not have received the statements. But, I dont think TFS have withheld 
them, to avoid  telling  him what he owed.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr A 
or TFS by 23 December  2019, my provisional decision is that Toyota  Financial Services (UK) Plc 
should: 
-pay Mr A £1,259.37:  and
-pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date Mr A paid the deposit on the first 
car, to the date of settlement.
TFS must pay these amounts within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the settlement amount from the date of 
final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN75955188If TFS deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mr A, it should  provide Mr A with a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7595518