K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook  Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following his 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
background 
Mr B and his late mother were contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Ill refer to it as G. Following a meeting, Mr B agreed to enter into a contract  
with G for it to supply  and install  a solar panel system costing about  £10,700. To fund this, 
he also agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr B made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA. He said that G had told him that the 
solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more  
than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income.  But that hadnt happened. Instead, the 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher than the income. His solar panels also 
werent working.
Following our involvement, Shawbrook made an offer to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  It agreed 
that the benefits of the solar panel  system had been misrepresented.  It had calculated  the 
potential income  and savings to Mr B over the term of the loan. It then offered to restructure 
the loan so that he wouldnt  pay any more  than that over the 15 year term of the loan. It had 
also arranged for a solar  panel company to attend Mr Bs home  and fix the problem with the 
system to ensure that it was up and running  again.  It also offered to pay Mr B £200 for the 
trouble and upset  that had been  caused.
One of our investigators  considered the offer put forward. He thought it was fair. Mr B didnt 
agree. He wanted the solar panel system to be removed from his home and to receive a 
refund of the payments  he had made.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of the impact this complaint has had on Mr Bs health and of the 
passing of his late mother.
Neither Shawbrook  or Mr B dispute  that the benefits of the solar  panel system were 
misrepresented to him and as a result  this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
Ref: DRN75472552proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from Mr Bs home. Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome here is to put him in a position  where the panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing Mr B to keep the panels, I am satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
Ive carefully considered  the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. 
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr Bs solar panel system. 
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Bs 
solar panels,  it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-consumption 
rate of 37%.  This is the percentage of energy generated by his solar panels that he is 
expected to use rather than buying electricity from his energy provider.
Self-consumption is impacted by the amount of time someone is in their home  and able to 
use, or self-consume,  the electricity their solar panels are producing.  It is self-evident that 
determining an exact figure over the period of the loan is difficult.  My role is to determine fair 
compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable overall.  And in cases of 
this nature that isnt an exact science.
Im satisfied that using  a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. Im 
of the opinion that this takes  into account changing consumer occupancy habits over the 
lifetime of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, Im satisfied that it is 
highly likely  that Mr B will continue to benefit  from the system as a result of a reduction in his 
electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels  and the FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Shawbrook provide a 
fair and reasonable basis for calculating  fair compensation.
Ive also considered whether Shawbrook has taken into account the period of time that Mr 
Bs werent  working as they should have been. Im pleased that Shawbrook  has resolved the 
issue with the panels and ensure that the system is running as it should be. Shawbrook  has 
said that to calculate the benefits Mr B has received  so far, its used the latest FIT payment 
information it had. This means that it has used  the total kWh generated since the panels 
were installed  to that date, which included the period where the panels werent working  as 
they shouldve  been, to calculate the total benefits Mr B had received.  Im satisfied that this 
is fair.
By following the approach it has, Shawbrook  has calculated  that Mr B has overpaid by 
around £800, including 8% simple interest.  And it has said it will use this money  to reduce 
the outstanding balance  of Mr Bs loan and therefore  reduce his monthly payments.
I accept that Mr B may wish to use his overpayments  in the way Shawbrook has suggested, 
especially as he has said he has been  struggling  to afford the monthly payments. But I dont  
think this is the only choice he should be given.  I think  the fairest option would be to give Mr 
B the following options of how hed like his overpayments to be used:
Ref: DRN75472553(a) the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly  payment  resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new, lower  monthly payment, until the end of the loan term (this is 
Shawbrooks current proposal),
(c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
(d)the overpayments are returned  to Mr B and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
If, after the above has taken place, Mr B is still unable to make  his required contractual 
monthly payments  he should contact Shawbrook to arrange a suitable repayment plan.
Mr B has said that this whole episode has caused him trouble and upset. Im satisfied that 
there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first contacted Shawbrook that 
means that his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this did not happen 
undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset. Im satisfied that the £200 put forward by 
Shawbrook suitably reflects this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a)allow Mr B to keep the solar  panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and incomes  to Mr B from the panels  over the 15 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Bs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d)allow Mr B to decide how hed like his overpayments  to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
(e)pay Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN75472554Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also 
give him a certificate  showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN7547255