K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited  (BUPA) has cancelled  the private 
medical insurance policy she held with them since 1998.
background
Ms C took out private medical  insurance with BUPA in 1998  through  her then husband, 
Mr Gs, employers policy. The cover was extensive,  and the cost of the policy  was heavily  
subsidised by Mr Gs employer, so Ms C only had to pay 50% of the cost of the annual 
premiums. 
In 2002 Ms C and Mr G divorced and Ms C has told us they contacted  BUPA to inform  the 
underwriter of this and to record  Ms Cs new address on file. Ms C has said that the 
insurance policy was something that she and her ex-husband discussed in detail at the time 
and has evidenced  this by providing a copy of the divorce petition which explicitly refers  to 
the policy.
Ms C has explained  that Mr G was happy for her to stay on the policy, which listed him as 
the lead  member, but that she would pay her own premiums  separately. In the event of 
Mr G passing away, they specified that Ms C should become the lead member in his stead 
so the policy  could continue. 
Between 2002 and 2018 Ms C continued  to rely on the policy.  Indeed  between  2013 and 
2018 she made a total of 13 claims for various  minor procedures  all of which were paid for in 
full by BUPA. 
In 2016 BUPA asked Ms C to get a letter of authorisation from Mr G confirming that he was 
happy for it to deal with her directly  when it came to matters relating to her cover  under the 
policy, as well as any claims she may make in relation  to her own health. Ms C has said this 
was the first time she was asked for this. In 2018 she was told she needed to get this letter 
renewed as it was only valid for two years. Ms C asked if there was an alternative  way of 
providing authorisation as she didnt want to have to ask Mr G to send these letters every 
two years.  She also wanted confirmation  from BUPA that should anything  happen  to Mr G 
the policy would be put in her name  and continue under the same terms with the same  
discounted rate. 
At this point Ms C was advised to get Mr G to sign a power of attorney order which would 
allow her to deal with BUPA directly. Ms C did this but the explained  that she only wanted to 
be able to discuss the claim in relation to her own needs. She didnt want or need to be 
authorised to discuss the policy in relation to Mr G or any claims he may make.  
In January 2019, while these issues were ongoing, BUPA  emailed Ms C to explain that it 
was withdrawing  cover.  It said that as Ms C and Mr G were no longer married and no longer 
lived at the same address; she wasnt entitled  to cover under Mr Gs work scheme. It 
explained that she could continue with the same type of cover without a break but that going 
forward the cost of the premiums would double as the discounted rate would no longer be 
applied. Alternatively,  Ms C could look at other types  of cover at different rates  offered by the 
underwriter. It said it would keep the current policy in place  until its renewal date in July 2019  
but after that Ms C would have to have different cover in place. 
Ms C complained and said she believed this was extremely unfair. She said both she and 
Ref: DRN79976442Mr G had notified BUPA in 2002 of their divorce  and that despite this BUPA  had continued to 
provide her with cover  over the course of the following 17 years.  She has said that had 
BUPA explained in 2002 that she couldnt  stay on the policy she would have been in a much 
stronger position  to find alternative  cover  at a good  rate. She has said that in the intervening  
years she has made several small  claims and now finds herself  in need of cataract surgery. 
As a result, any new insurance provider is likely to apply restrictions and exclusions relating 
to existing conditions.  Exclusions which Ms C believes wouldnt have applied  in 2002. 
In addition to this Ms C has explained  that the NHS  waiting list for cataract surgery  in her 
area is extremely long and it will cost her £3,000 per eye to have this done privately and she 
needs to have both eyes done. As this wont be covered under any new policy  Ms C will 
have to pay for this herself if she wants it done  soon, which she does as she needs to be 
able to drive unimpeded. 
BUPA responded to Ms Cs complaint  by confirming that it had made  an error when it 
allowed her to stay on the policy after she and Mr G had divorced. It has confirmed that as 
soon as that happened Ms C was no longer entitled  to be covered under Mr Gs employers 
scheme and so she has benefitted from a discounted rate over 17 years  that she wasnt 
authorised to have.  It does sympathise  with the situation Ms C is in but believes that despite 
the increase in cost of premiums maintaining the existing  cover with BUPA at the full price  is 
still Ms Cs best option. It agrees that it may have  been easier for Ms C to arrange alternative 
cover in 2002 but that the savings she made  by being kept on Mr Gs policy  between  2002 
and 2019 makes up for the financial impact now. As such  it doesnt  accept that its error  has 
been financially  detrimental to Ms C overall.  
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Cs complaint already. She found that BUPA had 
made a serious  error when it had failed  to remove Ms C from Mr Gs policy  in 2002. She 
agreed that under the terms of the policy as soon  as Ms C and Mr G divorced Ms C was no 
longer entitled  to remain on the policy or have access  to the discounted  rates. She also 
agreed that it would  have  been better and easier  for Ms C to have found alternative cover, 
either with BUPA or elsewhere, in 2002.  The investigator said it was a very finely  balanced 
case as she had to consider  both the disadvantage  Ms C now finds herself in against the 
fact that she benefitted  from a substantial discount  for 17 years which she was not entitled 
to.
With this in mind the investigator upheld the complaint and said that the fairest thing to do at 
this point was for BUPA to pay Ms C £3,000 compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  
by BUPAs error in allowing Ms C to stay on the policy when it shouldnt. She came to this 
amount as it was approximately half the cost of the cataract surgery  Ms C would have had 
cover for under her ex-husbands policy. 
BUPA disagreed  with the investigators findings. It explained  that its records dont go back  as 
far as 2002  and the first indication it can find that Ms C and Mr G were no longer married 
was in 2016 when the first letter of authorisation was requested.  It does accept that it made  
an error by not removing  her from the policy, but it believes despite the cost of the premiums 
increasing it would still be better for Ms C to stay with the underwriter as she would have 
continuous cover with it and her cataract  surgery wouldnt be excluded.  It repeated  that Ms C 
had benefitted  from a substantial discount  for a long time that she wasnt entitled to and as 
such didnt feel it had disadvantaged her financially. 
It asked for an ombudsman to review  the case and so it has been passed to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN79976443my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding the 
complaint and for the same  reasons  as those set out by the investigator.
BUPA has said its unable to confirm  when Ms C and Mr G informed it of their divorce  as its 
records dont go back that far. However, based  on what Ms C has told us, and the fact that 
the policy was referenced explicitly in the divorce  petition, Im satisfied that Ms C and Mr G 
discussed it at the time and it seems likely Ms C did notify the underwriter in 2002 that she 
and Mr G were  divorcing. And so, I think BUPAs error dates to 2002. 
Therefore, I must determine what impact that error  has had on Ms C and whether shes  been  
disadvantaged by it. 
Ms C has told us that she has found alternative  cover with a different underwriter  at a similar 
monthly cost to what she had been  paying BUPA. She explained that although  BUPA offered 
to allow  her to stay with the same level of cover  without any exclusions relating to her 
cataracts, the monthly  premiums had doubled  in price and so she could no longer afford 
them. However, the replacement policy she has now is more  limited, contains exclusions  
and requires 25% co-payment on claims  which  means  that Ms C could be liable to pay up to 
£500 per claim going forward.  By comparison under the BUPA policy  she only had to pay a 
fixed annual excess of £100 if she claimed  in any given year. So, Ms C strongly believes she 
has been disadvantaged by BUPAs  mistake. 
In addition to this Ms C feels it should have been apparent to BUPA that she and Mr G were  
no longer married as shes paid her own premiums separately from Mr G, been at different 
addresses since 2002 and BUPA has contacted her directly at these  addresses  (while still 
contacting Mr G at his own address). She says both she and Mr G have been open  and 
transparent throughout the entire life span of the policy and that BUPA  has been grossly 
unfair in how it has handled this issue. 
I agree  that it is likely Ms C would  have been able to get a better deal on a policy  in 2002 
than she can now. She is older and has developed  medical conditions  over the past 17 
years which will either  be excluded  by new underwriters or negatively  impact the cost of the 
policy. This is evidenced by the information Ms C received when trying to arrange  alternative 
cover and the fact that her new policy wont allow her to claim for her cataract  surgery.  
However, I also agree that the discount Ms C received for 17 years was substantial  and she 
wasnt entitled to it. But this was BUPAs error,  not Ms Cs. In fact, based on everything Ive 
seen, it strikes me that Ms C did everything  she could to notify BUPA of the change in 
circumstances when  she and Mr G split up. And she has paid her own premiums  separately 
and resided at a different  address from the main policy  holder  since  2002. So, I think there 
was enough information on the file for BUPA  to query what was happening with the policy,  
and to have amended its error sooner than it did. And I think it needs to do more now to 
resolve the matter  for Ms C.
Therefore, I agree  that the fairest thing at this point  is for BUPA  to pay Ms C compensation 
for the mistake it made and the impact that mistake has had on her now.  BUPA  has said that 
overall it wouldve  been more cost effective  for Ms C to have stayed with it and paid a higher 
monthly premium, as overall her ongoing  cover wouldve been subject to less exclusions and 
Ref: DRN79976444she wouldnt  have to pay a percentage of her claims. However,  Ms C has told us that she 
cant afford the increase in monthly premiums, which is substantial. And its not possible for 
Ms C to get like for like cover  elsewhere as she is now priced out of the market. So, while  I 
accept BUPAs argument that overall it may have been more  cost effective for Ms C to have 
maintained her policy with it, I also accept  Ms Cs testimony that this isnt an option for her. 
So after taking everything into consideration, and with an acknowledgement that due to the 
passage of time its not possible  to put Ms C into the exact position she would have been in 
in 2002 had BUPA given her correct  information then, I think the fairest resolution to the 
complaint is for BUPA to pay Ms C £3,000 compensation for the trouble and upset it has 
caused. This is approximately half the cost of the cataract surgery  Ms C is now unable  to 
claim for under her new medical insurance policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. BUPA Insurance  Limited must:
pay Ms C £3,000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997644