K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complained to deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited (referred to as deVere), about  not 
being informed  about issues with the Four Elements Strategic Growth  Fund  within her 
pension. This fund became illiquid  and incurred losses.  She says she was not informed 
about this at the time by deVere and it was several  years before she discovered  that the 
fund was illiquid. She says she would have taken  action if she had known this  such  as 
reducing the income she was taking from her pension. In addition, Mrs C complained  about 
the charges being applied to the pension.
background
Mrs C had a Qualifying  Recognised Overseas  Pension Scheme (QROPS) which  was set up 
by deVere and Partners in South Africa. She became a client  of deVere in the UK in 
December 2012  and received advice about  this pension on 3 January 2013.
At that time deVere  said Mrs Cs existing pension portfolio was at a moderately adventurous 
level, compared to her assessed low to medium attitude to investment risk.
Mrs Cs pension investments were held in the following funds:
Miton  Optimal  Offshore Spec  Situations  fund 28% of the QROPS
Four Elements Strategic Growth fund 52% of the QROPS
VAM  Managed Funds Driehaus fund 20% of the QROPS
The recommendation was to sell 35% of the Four Elements Strategic Growth fund. The 
amount sold would be reinvested across three  new funds; Invesco Perpetual High Income 
fund, M&G Corporate  Bond  fund and in cash. The fund changes were implemented.
When further advice  was provided in December 2014, it was noted the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund was suspended.  deVere has confirmed  to this service  that the fund 
was suspended in February  2013.
Mrs C complained to deVere after she became aware the Four Elements Strategic Growth 
fund was in administration. She said she should have been told about the issues  with the 
fund. Had she known  about the losses she was likely to incur she wouldve adjusted the 
level of pension withdrawals she made.
deVere told Mrs C that the suitability of the pension plan, including  its charges and the initial 
underlying investments werent its responsibility.  The plan was set up by the deVere  Group  
in South Africa,  not deVere UK. It couldnt have done anything  about the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund as it was suspended. When they found  out Mrs C wasnt  on a mailing 
list from the South African division  of deVere (which  updated investors about the status  of 
the Strategic Growth  fund), it arranged for her to be included. The adviser  reports in 2014 
and 2016 stated the fund had been suspended.
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Cs complaint. His view was that Mrs C had been informed that 
the fund was suspended  and the charging structure of the pension was the responsibility  of 
an overseas firm  the advice having  been given  by that firm to set up the pension  originally. 
However, in his view the advice  in January 2013 was unsuitable. The majority of Mrs Cs 
pension was held in unregulated funds (UCIS) and the changes made were insufficient to 
make the resulting portfolio  suitable.
Ref: DRN74670472deVere disagreed.  In summary it:
Questioned the adjudicator considering the advice provided  to Mrs C in January 
2013. It suggested it was inappropriate to do so when the Mrs C had only complained 
about not being told of the Four Elements Strategic Growth funds  suspension, not 
the advice in 2013.
Said that Mrs Cs loss was not as she had suggested when taking into account  the 
withdrawals she had made.
Questioned the adjudicators statements with respect to unregulated funds. It said the 
FCA guidance about unregulated funds only applied to new recommendations or 
promotions, not situations where the client already  held the fund. It did any event it 
did advise selling  some  of the unregulated funds. 
Said it did not sell unregulated investments  and agreed they would not be suitable  as 
new investments for the vast majority of its clients. When dealing  with existing 
holdings it said a different approach  is appropriate  considering the particular 
circumstances and then discussing  this with the client. 
It had not ignored the unregulated funds, it looked to gradually reduce  the exposure 
to these funds  over time and to reinvest  in mainstream UK investments.  It was 
unfortunate that the Strategic Growth fund became illiquid so soon after the advice in 
January 2013  - but that was outside  its control
The adjudicators view remained  that the advice  in January 2013 left Mrs C with an 
unsuitable pension  investment portfolio.
Mr C replied to the adjudicators assessment  on behalf of himself  and Mrs C. He said that 
DeVere was ignoring the charges applicable  to the pension.  He also said that the original  
pension value was much higher than was being  set out. Furthermore  he and Mrs C only took 
the sums  from the pension that deVere recommended  - and this was on the basis  that they 
werent reducing the value of their fund by taking withdrawals  they thought they were only 
taking the increase in pension value each year. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would say that it was appropriate for the adjudicator to consider the advice Mrs C 
had been provided with in January 2013.  As deVere may be aware,  this service has an 
inquisitorial remit. In any event, the adjudicator  did not, as deVere suggests, look  through 
an entire file to see if there is anything a client might want  to complain about.  He 
considered whether Mrs C should  have remained invested in a fund which subsequently 
resulted in the losses to her pension that Mrs C complained about. This is clearly  closely 
associated with the complaint Mrs C has made.   
deVere (UK) did not give the advice to set up the QROPS originally. Therefore it is not 
responsible for that advice or recommendation. So, the charging structure of the QROPS is 
not something that deVere had responsibility for and it did not determine  what charges would 
Ref: DRN74670473be applied. And the original investments  chosen  for that QROPS  would also not be the 
responsibility of deVere. deVere UK was receiving a fee from the QROPS  provider after 
2012, but that does not seem to me unreasonable, or of an unreasonable  level.   
Having said that, Mrs C did become a client  of deVere in 2012  and it reviewed the QROPS 
in January 2013. deVere undertook a risk assessment that resulted in Mrs C being defined 
as a low to medium risk investor.  
In the Annual  Portfolio  Report dated 3 January 2013 deVere set out that Mrs Cs portfolio 
had a Moderately Adventurous risk grading. 
It risk graded the funds  as follows:
Miton Optimal Offshore Spec  Situations  fund (28%) - moderate
Four Elements Strategic  Growth  fund (52%) - moderate
VAM Managed Funds Driehaus fund (20%)  moderately adventurous 
(although in 2014 this was classified as adventurous)
As the adjudicator set out, deVere recommended that Mrs C sell 35% of the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund.  These were to be replaced  with lower risk income (which deVere 
classed as moderate risk) and corporate  bond  funds (which  deVere classed as low risk). 
Assuming deVeres  risk gradings, this would appear  to have resulted in over 80% of the 
portfolio being  held in moderately adventurous and moderate risk investments with the 
remainder in lower risk investments.
With over 80% of the portfolio being  held in moderate and moderately adventurous risk 
investments, I do not believe  this recommendation led to Mrs Cs portfolio being  realigned  
with her defined low to moderate risk grading. This is bearing in mind that three  retained  
original holdings were  UCIS. UCIS do not benefit  from the protections afforded  by UK 
regulation  such as cover by the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme - and are 
usually classed as higher  risk. 
I note that in December 2014, deVere  gave further advice to Mrs C. Her attitude to risk was 
defined as low-moderate. The report set out at the time that the Four Elements Strategic 
Growth fund now only made up about 4% of the portfolio   which  was because the fund had 
been suspended. The adviser  recommended  selling  the Miton fund and investing £10,000 in 
the JP Morgan Multi Asset Income fund and £10,000 in the Invesco Sterling Bond fund. 
In January 2016, further advice was provided to sell part of the holdings  in the VAM
Managed Fund (LUX) Driehaus fund and hold them in cash. The report  did factually set out 
that the Four Elements  Strategic Growth fund was suspended. It also set out the current  
valuation of the QROPS   which  was significantly less than the value in 2012.
Whist I note deVere  says that it was reducing the risk and unregulated holdings  of the 
portfolio over time (which it did), bearing  in mind  Mrs Cs risk tolerance,  the portfolio was still 
of a higher level of risk than was appropriate  for her after the changes  in 2013. Furthermore, 
she still had significant  holdings in unregulated funds which exacerbated the risks (and 
which persisted for some years). The value of Mrs Cs pension was directly affected by this 
because of the continuation of the holding  of the Four Elements Strategic  Growth  fund. 
deVere had the opportunity of rebalancing Mrs Cs portfolio in 2013 to a risk level that met 
her attitude  to risk and also fully address the risks of her holdings in unregulated funds. I 
Ref: DRN74670474would mention that I have not seen  anything in Mrs Cs background that would indicate  she 
was the kind of sophisticated investor  for which unregulated funds would be suitable. 
So, taking everything  into account, I believe deVere  should have gone further in January 
2013 and rebalance her portfolio so that her holdings were of a risk level and type that were 
suitable for her  which I do not believe they were. The ramifications  of that have  continued 
until the present.  
I therefore uphold  the complaint on this basis.
I note that Mrs C also complains about the lack of confirmation over time about the 
suspension of the Four Elements Strategic Growth fund and the pension  reduction  in value. 
The suspension of the fund was noted in the 2014  and 2016 reports, as was the pension 
value, although  the suspension was not specifically  discussed  in those reports.  Furthermore 
the valuations  by the QROPS provider do set out the overall value  and the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund value. So I could not say this information was not disclosed.  I would 
have expected that there would be more  documented comment from the adviser about the 
suspension and its consequent effect  on value and it is not clear why this was not set out. 
However, in any event, once the fund was suspended I do not believe there  was any further 
action that could practically be taken with it. Mrs C could  have  reduced  or ceased to take 
income from the QROPS.  But she has had the benefit of that income, having simply 
withdrawn pension value  rather  than leave it within the QROPS. So I do not believe any 
further action  is necessary in this respect, bearing  in mind the redress  I will suggest in 
resolution of this complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs Cs QROPS portfolio should  have  been invested differently from 
January 2013.  But its not possible to say precisely what makeup that portfolio  should have 
had. But Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mrs C's 
circumstances, objectives and risk tolerance from January 2013. 
what should  deVere do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, deVere must:
Compare the performance of Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable. deVere  should also add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, deVere should pay into Mrs C's pension plan to increase  its value  by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
Ref: DRN74670475If deVere is unable  to pay the total amount into Mrs C's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mrs C £250 for the upset  and inconvenience caused  by the reduction in value of 
her pension  and the suspension of her funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If deVere deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs C how much has been  taken off. deVere should give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
QROPS mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  IndexJanuary 2013date of this 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the Four Elements Strategic Growth fund. So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. deVere  should 
take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as I set out above.
If deVere is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. deVere may require that Mrs C provides an undertaking to 
pay deVere any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. deVere will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN74670476fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if deVere  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs C was willing to accept some  investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the  
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs C's circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that deVere and Partners (UK) Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited  should  provide details  of its calculation to Mrs C in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467047