K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  the charges and interest applied to their mortgage account 
with Pepper (UK) Limited, which trades  as Engage Credit (Engage). 
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with GE Money  Home Lending Limited  (GE Money) in 
November 2005,  which was transferred to Engage on 23 March 2015.
The mortgage has been in arrears for some time, with additional interest and charges 
accruing over a number  of years.
In November 2015, Mr and Mrs D raised  a complaint  through  our service with Engage about 
the fees and charges added to their mortgage. 
Engage sent its final response letter to Mr and Mrs D on 13 January 2016. It said that 
complaints had been raised about charges  previously,  with GE Money having sent them  a 
response on 23 August  2012. So it said it had only reviewed the additional  amounts  added 
to the mortgage  since  that date, which comprised: 
Direct debit recall fees;
Monthly arrears/administration  fees;
A miscellaneous  repossession  charge;
A monthly litigation fee;
Loan re-optimisation fees;
A returned cheque  fee;
Solicitors costs;
A charge for changing the payment date; and
Additional interest.
Engage didnt think any of these amounts had been applied incorrectly.  It said theyd been  
charged to cover additional  work  that either  it or GE Money had been  required to carry out.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and referred  the matter to us. They were particularly 
concerned that despite paying an extra £500 a month in line with the terms of a Suspended 
Possession Order, their mortgage balance wasnt reducing because  of the additional 
amounts that were  being added.
As there are some restrictions on which aspects of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  we can 
consider, I issued a jurisdiction decision  setting out that we were only able to look at 
amounts added to the mortgage between 1 February 2013  and 13 January 2016.
my provisional decision  
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on the complaint last month, setting out why I 
thought it should be upheld. I said:
While the complaint has been with us, Engage has offered to refund some of the fees 
and charges that have been applied to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage over the years. Ill 
cover that in more detail  below. Of those that remain, there  are some that I think 
should remain and some that I think Engage  should refund. 
Ref: DRN71035542I should start by saying  that the mortgage  conditions allowed the lender (initially 
GE Money  and then Engage) to recover its reasonable expenses in connection  with 
the mortgage from Mr and Mrs D. It also allows for these amounts to be added  to the 
mortgage and for interest to be charged until theyre  repaid.  This is also common  
practice across the industry.
So I think both GE Money and Engage  had the contractual  right to recover expenses 
from Mr and Mrs D and to do so by adding them to the mortgage, as theyve done.
Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair to apply each charge in more detail. For 
ease, Ive set out my current  thoughts  under each category  of charge below.
monthly arrears administration charges
Reviewing a history of the transactions for the period in question here, I can see a total 
of 20 fees for additional administration carried out while the mortgage was in arrears. 
When an account is in arrears, it typically requires more work and management than 
would otherwise be the case. Its common for lenders to charge for this, and to do so 
by way of a set fee (rather than on an individual  case  by case  basis). This is also 
specifically provided  for within the mortgage conditions. And the fees are set out in a 
separate tariff of charges: GE Money charged £40, and Engage charged £27.50.
While we think its fair for a lender to charge  for such additional work, there are some 
caveats to this. For example, we wont always think its reasonable to apply a charge in 
months where theres  an agreed payment arrangement in place and thats  being  
maintained. And of course  well look to see whether the lender did actually carry out 
any additional work in the first place  or whether it just applied  the charge  as a matter  
of course.
Here, Engage has already offered to refund eight of the £40 arrears administration  
fees applied by GE Money. It says Mr and Mrs D made payments of or around the 
contractual monthly payment  in three  months where  a fee was also charged (March 
2013, February 2014 and March 2014)  so it will reverse those  fees. Thats in line 
with our approach  and seems fair to me.
The other five, Engage  says, were applied in the same month  as legal fees were  
added so its also willing to reverse these (those  being March 2010, May 2013  (twice), 
November 2014,  January  2015 and March 2015). The account  had been referred to 
solicitors and recovery action was already underway. It ought  also to have followed 
that less management work was required.  So I dont  think  it would be reasonable to 
effectively charge Mr and Mrs D in the same month  and agree  that it would be fair to 
reverse these fees too.
Engage has also offered  to refund a sixth fee that predates the period we can 
investigate (which was applied in March 2010)  though  for the reasons explained 
thats not something I can comment on, save for making Mr and Mrs D aware of it.
The offer leaves a further 12 arrears administration fees on the account.  So Ive looked 
at each of these and the circumstances in which they were applied. 
Ref: DRN71035543One of those was applied  in July 2013. It seems  to me that following the logic of not 
charging when  legal  work is underway,  and where no significant additional 
administration has been required, that this fee should also be reversed. I think the 
same is true of the fees GE Money  applied in December 2014  and February 2015, and 
those applied by Engage  in May and June 2015. While legal fees might not have been 
applied in those  specific months, I think the account  was being handled primarily by 
the lenders solicitors and I cant see that significant additional administration  due to 
the account arrears  was being carried out by either  GE Money or Engage.
An arrears  administration  fee was also applied each month between April 2014 and 
October 2014. But having looked over the internal account notes, I cant  see that 
GE Money  was actually  carrying  out much  in the way of additional  management work 
to justify these extra  charges.  There  are very few notes  made  over this period 
altogether, and notably nothing seems to have  happened at all between 10 April and 
3 August (when  an automated  valuation was requested) and then between  11 August 
and 9 October (when the account  is reviewed). So I currently think that these seven 
fees, charged between  April and October 2014,  should be reversed too.
unpaid cheque and unpaid direct debit charges
A total of five unpaid cheque charges and three unpaid  direct debit charges were also 
applied to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage over the period in question (all by GE Money  
between February 2013  and May 2014). Each of those charges  was £25.
A certain  level of administration is required when a payment is returned  whether its 
a direct debit or cheque  payment that is bounced. So charges for this additional work 
arent uncommon either.
Looking at the account history,  each  fee was applied when a payment was returned.  
So I dont  see any basis for directing a refund. 
legal fees
Over the period in question, a total of £1,652.60 was added to Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage in respect  of legal fees.  These were all costs billed by solicitors  and then 
passed on to Mr and Mrs D, as provided for by the mortgage conditions.
Of that amount,  a total of £1,131.60 was added  by GE Money  between  April 2013 and 
March 2015. Ive asked both GE Money  and Engage for copies of the invoices to 
which the fees relate  but neither has been  able to provide them. So its difficult  for 
me to say exactly what work was done to justify these amounts.
I have, however, carefully reviewed the internal notes on the account  to understand 
what was happening over this period. Having done so, its clear to me that given the 
substantial arrears and the court action that followed, there wouldve been a high level 
of involvement from solicitors over this period. GE Money was looking to enforce a 
possession order obtained  some years prior, which brought its own legal process. 
Ref: DRN71035544Against the level of work that I expect wouldve been reasonably  required in this 
respect, the invoiced amounts dont appear  out of line with what Ive seen  in similar 
situations previously  or unusually high. So, on the basis of the limited information  
available to me, I currently think the amounts  were  fairly incurred and therefore 
legitimately passed  on to Mr and Mrs D.
While the accounts  been with Engage, a further  two invoices for solicitors costs  were 
charged to the mortgage on 8 October 2015  and 8 November  2015 (totalling £521). 
These were  in connection with the hearing  that took place in October 2015, at which  
the warrant previously  granted was suspended. Ive reviewed the invoices for this 
work. The amounts  billed for dont appear unreasonable in light of the work that was 
required. So again I dont think it was wrong  for Engage to pay them and then add the 
costs to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage.
Around the same time, a further charge of £366  was applied in respect of an invoice 
from a third party maintenance company.  This was for preparation for an eviction,  for 
which a warrant had previously been  obtained. While it ultimately wasnt  utilised   the 
warrant was suspended as above   I dont think it was unreasonable for Engage to 
have taken the steps it did prior to this. Ive reviewed the invoice from the maintenance 
company, and the work carried out seems to have  been a necessary part of that 
process. So I dont  think  it was unfair for Engage to recover  this cost from Mr and 
Mrs D either.
miscellaneous repossession charges
GE Money  applied a charge of £90 to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  on 22 January 2015, 
which is described as miscellaneous  repossession charges. An internal account note 
of 15 January 2015 suggests this was a fee charges for same day BA cancellation   
with BA an abbreviation  for Bailiffs Appointment.
At that time,  GE Money had a warrant to take possession of Mr and Mrs Ds property, 
which it was looking to enforce  hence the instruction of a bailiff.  GE Money received 
notice of an application hearing on either 12 or 13 January 2015   and with that further 
hearing being scheduled, the bailiffs appointment was cancelled. 
Theres very little to support exactly why this fee was charged. The only information  I 
do have suggested  it was because the bailiffs appointment was cancelled on the 
same day  but it seems  to me that couldve been done once the further  application 
hearing was scheduled (at least 48 hours  earlier).  In turn, it would  appear  that had it 
been cancelled  at the earliest opportunity, there  wouldnt have been a fee.
So unless Im provided with any further information  as to the basis  of this charge, Im 
likely to tell Engage to refund it and reverse the interest its accrued as a result of 
being added to the mortgage.
litigation fees
Engage applied two £50 litigation  fees to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage (in July and August 
2015). Its tariff provides  for this charge. Specifically, it says:
Ref: DRN71035545Charged to your account each month it is being managed  within 
our litigation  area to cover the costs of our management of the 
litigation process. This fee will not be charged in months where 
there is an arrangement  in place and maintained to repay the 
outstanding arrears balance or the contractual monthly instalment 
has been received.  This is in addition to our solicitors costs 
incurred throughout  the litigation process  and is in place  of the 
monthly arrears fee.
Im not convinced it was fair for Engage  to apply these fees to Mr and Mrs Ds account 
given the circumstances. By this time, legal action was at a very advanced stage: the 
warrant for eviction had been granted and Engage was seeking to enforce it. A date of 
eviction had been scheduled. 
The arrears  were at a significant level and I think it was clear that the only basis upon  
which Engage  would halt that action  was by way of a substantial payment from Mr and 
Mrs D  for which theyd been asking for some time and of which  there was no sign.  
Im not convinced, therefore, that its reasonable to charge  Mr and Mrs D for some 
fairly routine administrative  work while the account was being  handled  by solicitors 
(and for which they were also being  charged).  
So, based  on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to tell Engage to reverse  the two 
litigation fees charges  in July and August 2015.
additional amounts payable  after changing  the payment  date
Mr and Mrs D were charged  two additional amounts that have been labelled interest   
due date change. 
Mr and Mrs D changed their payment  date in July 2013, moving it from the 16th of each 
month to the 27th. With interest being  charged daily, the knock-on effect of this was 
that more interest  would be charged  (with payments being made later,  the debt was 
outstanding and therefore incurring  interest for longer). While the monthly payment 
would later be changed, there was a short period while the additional interest  would 
accrue and need  to be made up. GE Money wrote to Mr and Mrs D at the time, 
explaining this and confirming their wish to add the additional interest to the balance. 
So I cant see anything wrong  in GE Money adding £201.80 to the mortgage in this 
respect on 27 August  2018, which appears to account for this.
Mr and Mrs D made  a similar change later that year. A further £54.74 was added on 
30 November, after they moved the payment further back  to the 30th of each month.  
Again, GE Money wrote to Mr and Mrs D to explain how this would work. And again, 
the amount appears to reflect the additional  interest that accrued as a result of the 
change  so I cant see an error  here.
Ref: DRN71035546additional interest
Engage has explained that interest  is calculated daily on the balance of the account 
and applied  once  a month.  The interest  applied as a result of the arrears (and the fees)  
balance is described  as additional interest.  In short, when payments were  missed or 
charges added, that is additional money Mr and Mrs D owed  upon  which  further 
interest was incurred until those amounts were repaid.
I appreciate how this additional  interest would also feel like an extra  burden for Mr and 
Mrs D. And to my mind  its highly  likely  to have been  one of the biggest  barriers they 
faced in reducing their balance once they resumed payments. But it is common  
practice for interest to be charged  on money owed and I dont think I can reasonably  
expect either  lender  to have foregone this in the circumstances. So I dont think these 
amounts have been unfairly or unreasonably  applied to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage.
Im pleased to note that while  the complaint has been ongoing, Engage has taken 
steps to assist Mr and Mrs D by reducing the amount of interest theyre charged  
which in turn is helping them to repay the amount  they owe more quickly. But I dont 
think either lender  did anything wrong in declining to offer such a reduction sooner. 
I note that Mr and Mrs D would also like Engage to consider  freezing the interest 
altogether now, but thats not something  I could direct them  to do as part of this 
complaint. I invite Engages comments on that request in response  to this provisional  
decision but ultimately, if Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  about how Engage  is currently  
treating them then that will need  to be considered  under a new complaint.
responses to the provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs D raised  some queries  in response to my provisional decision:
They wanted confirmation that the fees I was intending to require Engage  to refund 
were in addition  to those it had offered  to reverse  and whether  that offer included 
the interest those  fees had incurred.
They didnt think theyd made any changes to the payment date since the Suspended 
Possession Order had been granted, so questioned  the additional amounts Id 
referred to in this respect.
They queried why Id only looked  at fees and interest charged over a three-year 
period.
They said our Service had previously  told them that delays in dealing with their 
complaint had been caused by a wider investigation into possible wrongdoing when 
GE Money sold its mortgages  on to other companies  but Id not referred  to that in 
my provisional decision. They  also wanted  to know whether  theyd be able to raise  a 
separate complaint about being mis-sold the mortgage.
Ref: DRN71035547Engage responded to say that it didnt accept my provisional decision. It responded with 
further comments in respect  of each of the fees and charges,  all of which  it still believed  
were legitimate. 
In summary,  it said:
On the arrears administration charges, it highlighted records  of the work  carried out 
on the account to support the application  of each  fee. It said such fees were  fixed  
they werent variable  or directly linked  to the amount of work carried  out in any 
particular month.  It said it had only offered a refund of certain fees applied by the 
previous lender where there was no evidence of account  management  activity  as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
On the litigation  fees, it said that most  companies charged such  a fee. It said this 
type of work was usually completed by more experienced  staff with specific  skills or 
knowledge. Where  legal action was being  taken, various stages of checks would be 
completed.
On the miscellaneous  repossession  charge, it didnt agree that GE Money had 48 
hours notice in which it couldve cancelled the hearing. It said that GE Money 
received notice of the application hearing on 13 January 2015 which was scheduled 
for the following day. The eviction was scheduled  for the same  day and wasnt  
cancelled, as GE Money intended  to oppose  the application and proceed with the 
eviction.
Engage didnt respond to my invitation for comment on Mr and Mrs Ds request  that it 
consider freezing the interest  altogether.
developments since the provisional decision
In light of Engages  further comments,  I wrote  to both parties to explain that Id changed my 
mind in respect of the miscellaneous repossession charge.
In its response,  Engage had explained that GE Money had still intended  to proceed with the 
eviction (subject to the outcome of the application  hearing). So it hadnt  cancelled the bailiff 
on receipt of notice of Mr and Mrs Ds application. 
I thought that was reasonable.  It had a warrant for eviction  that it was entitled to enforce, so 
if the application hearing had been unsuccessful it could (and would) have proceeded.  It was 
therefore only once  the hearing  had taken place  and the eviction had been suspended   
that the bailiffs appointment was cancelled. As the hearing was the same day of the bailiffs 
appointment, the same day cancellation  was inevitable. The administrative costs incurred in 
that cancellation were  then legitimately passed on to Mr and Mrs D by way of adding them to 
the mortgage, as provided for within the terms and conditions of the account.  
I invited the parties  to let me have any comments or evidence they wished to present in 
response  but neither replied with anything further.
Ref: DRN71035548my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached largely  the same conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision, save  for the 
slight change in respect of the miscellaneous  possession charge as set out above. Ill 
explain why the parties further submissions havent  led me to a different view.
In relation to the monthly arrears administration charges, Ive taken on board Engages 
further comments. I appreciate that the fees are fixed and arent directly linked to the amount 
of work it carried out during the month  in which it was charged.  And in fact, as a matter  of 
course it may well simply apply such fees if the account is in arrears and theres  no payment 
arrangement in place.  Ive not questioned its contractual  right to do that.
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  in considering  whether it was fair for such  
charges to be applied, we take into consideration the individual circumstances of the account 
in question  which will include, amongst  several  other things, the amount of work the lender 
was actually put to.
Engage has pointed me to records of the work  it did in months  where fees were charged and 
which I said ought to be refunded. This,  though, wasnt new information  Id already 
reviewed and considered  these records  before reaching my provisional decision. 
I still think that given  the known  conduct and status  of the account, the fact that legal action 
was underway and in light of the markedly limited level of additional work that either lender 
seems to have been put to, it would be fair for Engage to reverse the fees as detailed in my 
provisional decision. Thats in addition to those it had already offered to refund.  As I 
explained, I found the rationale for this offer to be in keeping with our approach. So I would  
likely have directed  Engage  to reverse these fees, had it not already offered to do so. So for 
the avoidance of doubt, Im also requiring Engage to reverse these fees too  save  for the 
one applied  in March 2010,  which falls outside  of our jurisdiction.
In reversing the fees, a refund of both the charges and any interest  they incurred ought to be 
applied to the account. 
I know Mr and Mrs D queried why I was only looking at the fees applied over a limited period  
of time. The reasons for this were set out in my decision as to our jurisdiction in respect  of 
their complaint, and I cant helpfully add more to that here.
litigation fees
Im still not persuaded it was fair for Engage to apply the litigation fees to Mr and Mrs Ds 
account given  the circumstances. 
Engage has tried to explain the basis of the charge  further, saying that additional  work   
distinct to the legal work running parallel  wouldve been  undertaken by specialist members 
of staff. But its not provided any real detail in response to my further  enquiries  about what  
this work  entailed or the staff that carried it out, such that a higher charge was warranted.
So with little additional evidence on this point, I still dont think it was fair to apply  the 
litigation fees for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN71035549additional amounts payable  after changing  the payment  date
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs D said they didnt think theyd made any 
changes to the payment date since the Suspended Possession Order  had been granted.  But 
the evidence I have seen suggests otherwise.  Notes  of contact on the account  show  that two 
requests were made   one on 16 July 2013 and one on 5 November 2013. Weve shared the 
detail of those  notes with Mr and Mrs D and theyve not replied with any further comments.
So Im still satisfied that changes were  made  to the payment date in line with Mr and Mrs Ds 
requests. This led to additional interest  being charged, which I think  was legitimate for the 
reasons explained in my provisional  decision.
concerns about  the sale of the mortgage
I note Mr and Mrs D are concerned at possible wrongdoing by GE Money in how it sold on 
its portfolio of mortgages  including theirs  which Ive not commented on in my decision. 
Theyve suggested that a member of our staff said we were looking into that sale  which is 
not the case. What we have said is that the transfer  led to questions  about which of the two 
businesses was responsible for complaints like Mr and Mrs Ds and which  needed to be 
worked through before we could proceed   rather than the sale itself being of concern. 
Mr and Mrs D have also queried whether they can raise a complaint about how the mortgage  
was sold to them in the first place. They are free to do so and should speak to our 
investigator if they would  like any assistance in that regard. Likewise if they retain any 
concerns about  the transfer of their mortgage from GE Money to Engage, theyd  need  to 
raise that as a separate matter too.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and require 
Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit)  to:
Honour its offer to refund the eight  £40 arrears administration fees as detailed  above;
Refund the ten £40 arrears administration fees as Ive identified above;
Refund the two £27.50 monthly  arrears fees (applied in May and June 2015);
Refund the two £50 litigation  fees;
Reverse the interest associated with each of the above fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7103554