K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2010 alongside  a loan. Miss K says Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
This decision only looks at PPI sold alongside  the 2010 loan. Ive already sent Miss K a 
decision explaining  why I cant  consider  the sale of PPI alongside the loans sold in 2005, 
2007 and 2008. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss K has said she wasnt given enough  information about the PPI and felt like she had to 
have it. Lloyds have  said the optional nature of the policy would have been clear. Where 
theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my decision on what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened, taking into account  all the evidence that is available.
Lloyds have provided me with a copy of the loan agreement completed at the time. I can see 
PPI is shown in a separate box which requires a tick next to where it says  I wish to 
purchase Loan Protection Insurance if PPI is wanted as well as a separate signature  from 
the credit. I can see PPI has been  selected  and Miss K has signed for PPI separately from 
the credit   which I think indicates  that she wanted the cover. The box also specifically says 
This insurance is optional  so if Miss K didnt want the PPI she didnt have to complete the 
section. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration, I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss K didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
Ive thought about what Miss K has said about feeling pressured  to take out the PPI. But 
pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think  is pressure another  may not. I 
cant say what was discussed when the PPI was sold. And I think its possible it couldve 
been suggested to Miss K that it was a good idea to take the policy  but that isnt the same as 
saying she must have it. So without stronger evidence of this I cant fairly  uphold the 
complaint on this basis. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss K so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss K has said she would have received six months full followed  by six months half sick 
pay from her employer  at the time, as well as having some  savings.  But the PPI policy would  
have paid out in addition  to her sick pay and potentially for the duration of the loan. It would 
also have covered Miss K for 12 months if she lost her job - on top of any redundancy  
Ref: DRN79460532payment she may have  got. And it wouldve allowed her to use any savings she had for 
other expenses, or keep them intact  for the future. So, based on what Ive been told, I still 
think the PPI was useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K. But Lloyds 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss K because: 
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission  and    profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Miss K about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Miss K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss K has said but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Miss K any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Miss K any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Miss K the extra she paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Miss K 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss K can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN79460533my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Miss K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7946053