K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about the refusal of etika Finance UK Limited (EFL)  to give her the full 
refund she has requested.
background
In October  2017 Ms W entered into a contract for a number of beauty treatments and 
products. Specifically, she paid for six facial  treatments and a number of products that were  
meant to work in tandem  with the treatments.  The contract with the supplier was funded by a 
point of sale loan supplied by EFL.
Ms W is dissatisfied  because she says she did not get all the treatments she paid the 
supplier for, rather she got some  substituted  treatments  which  were not like for like 
replacements. Further, she considers that the contract with the supplier was misrepresented  
to her as she has found out that the supplier was not licensed to use the products that it sold 
to her. Further Ms W indicated she was unaware  the finance was supplied by EFL rather  
than the supplier. Her stance is that she would not have  gone ahead with the contract if she 
had known any of this. Ms W complained to EFL relying on the rights she has under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  She has these rights as she used  a point of sale loan 
to pay for the contract with the supplier.
EFLs position  was that Ms W isnt entitled to a refund. It thought  she had received all of the 
treatments and products  shed paid for. It acknowledged there is a dispute between  the 
supplier and the company (the licensor) whose  products the supplier used. But the 
products used on Ms W were  genuine. So, it didnt agree there  had been a 
misrepresentation. Moreover,  EFL thought given the documents  shed signed and the 
information it had sent to her when the loan was taken out, she ought reasonably  to have 
been aware that it was providing  her with the finance.
Dissatisfied with EFLs  response Ms W came  to our service. At this point Ms W then raised 
new issues that EFL had not had an opportunity  to respond to. She talked about  being 
pressured into agreeing to the contract. Further, Ms W mentioned irregularities in the 
process to credit check her and she suggested  she could not afford  to borrow.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ws complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he said if there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold EFL responsible  for this taking into account what  Section 75 
says. However, our investigator  concluded  Ms W had received everything that she had paid 
for. He could  see that the licensor did not agree that the supplier was licensed by it to use 
the products.  But our investigator thought that issue  did not mean that the contract had been 
misrepresented to Ms W. He said this because there  was no suggestion  that the products 
were counterfeit. Rather she had received genuine products albeit the licensor had not 
wanted the supplier  to sell them. But this was an intellectual property dispute between  the 
supplier and the licensor, and it did not impact  on her complaint.
EFL accepted our investigators recommendation, Ms W rejected it. In short, she responded 
to say, she still thought  she was entitled to a full refund, she indicated that other consumers  
who had gone  to court had got full refunds on the basis that the supplier was passing itself 
off as something that it was not. She explained  why she is a vulnerable  consumer. She 
talked about skin conditions that she has that will need long term solutions,  she explained 
that the supplier  was meant to provide these,  but it cannot as it is no longer trading.
Ref: DRN79550382We could go no further at this stage, so I was asked to take a fresh look at Ms Ws 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I regret to tell Ms W that I think  I have no 
proper basis to uphold  her complaint. I recognise that it is likely that she will find my 
conclusion upsetting, that is not my intention, far from it. I explain below why I have reached  
this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms W brings  her complaint based on the rights she has under  Section  75. Section 75 says, 
amongst other things,  that in certain  circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a 
transaction financed  by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against  the credit  
provider. So, if here, I thought Ms Ws contract had been breached or if I thought  there had 
been a misrepresentation I might say it was fair and reasonable for EFL to have to put it 
right.
Ms W has mentioned what she says has happened in the courts  where she suggests these 
same circumstances have been  looked  at. If I understand her correctly  she is suggesting 
that because a court has decided in a certain  way this service  must too. I dont know  the 
details of those  court cases she mentions.  But, I think its important to set out my role here. 
In considering a complaint about  a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats  a 
fair way to resolve  Ms Ws complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other 
things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt  mean  
Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Ms W pursued  
a claim for misrepresentation or breach  of contract. Our service  is an informal  alternative to 
the courts. 
Ive seen an invoice  from the supplier that sets out the services and goods that Ms W was 
meant to get from the supplier. Ms W doesnt  suggest she didnt get the number of facial  
treatments set out in the invoice (six) rather she says she got six treatments but the fifth and 
sixth treatment were different cheaper treatments.  She explains that she was given these 
alternative treatments because she had medical  conditions that meant  the original 
treatments were not appropriate  for her. It does not appear that Ms W complained at the 
Ref: DRN79550383time about this as I might reasonably have expected her to do. Especially since she tells us 
the alternative treatment  cost less than half the amount of the treatment she paid for. 
Moreover, Ms W tells us despite this substitution she then afterwards  went on to buy a 
further batch of it seems  the very same facial treatments shed been told were not suitable 
for her. In all the circumstances, I dont  find her version of these events  persuasive.  If follows 
I dont find that Ms W didnt get the goods and services she paid the supplier  for.
Ms W explains why she considers that the contract  was misrepresented  to her. In this 
context a misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that led to her making  the 
contract with the supplier. Ms W tells us about  two things  here.  
First, she suggests it was important to her that the supplier was using the licensors  
products. But she has found out that the supplier was using these without permission and if 
she had known this that would have  changed her mind about contracting. 
Secondly she tells us she knew she was applying for finance, but she thought  the supplier 
was providing it. Had she known that it wasnt  she would not have gone ahead. 
I accept that by implication, the supplier was representing itself as being  an authorised 
licensee. But Im not persuaded  that the irregular  status of the supplier in relation to the 
licensor was something  that would have dissuaded  Ms W from contracting had she known 
about it. She has not explained why this was so important to her.
It is clear that Ms W knew she was applying for finance to pay for the beauty treatments and 
the products.  But she says she was led to believe the supplier was providing the finance and 
she would  not have gone ahead if she had known it was otherwise. 
Again, Ms W hasnt explained why it was important for her that the supplier was providing 
the finance. Neither can I see what benefit  the supplier wouldve gained  by giving Ms W 
incorrect information about this. In all the circumstances, I am not satisfied that Ms W was 
given inaccurate  information  about  this that led her to contract.
For all of these reasons I have no fair and reasonable basis for saying that EFL must give 
Ms W the refund she asks it for.
Ms W has now also raised  issues about  the sales process in particular saying she was 
asked to provide  the details of a friend  as if they were her details so she could pass the 
credit check,  that she could not afford the lending, that her vulnerability as a consumer was 
not taken into account and that she was made to take out the finance because  of the undue 
pressure put on her by the supplier acting as EFLs credit broker.  
These are serious matters. But these also appear  to be new matters and they have not been  
considered by EFL in its final response  to Ms W or investigated within this complaint. It 
follows that I am unable  to look at these new matters in this final decision. I am not saying 
though Ms W can go no further  with these particular issues, only that she can do no further 
with them  in this specific complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN79550384Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7955038