K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that MYJAR  Limited  gave  her a loan that she couldnt afford.
background
Mrs S was given an instalment loan for £2,450  by MYJAR on 19 November 2017. It was
repayable by 12 monthly instalments. The first instalment was £371.02 followed by ten
instalments of £369.93 and a final instalment of £369.84. Mrs S said that sheer desperation
had pushed her to seek the loan from MYJAR.  The loan compounded her debt spiral. She
said that if MYJAR had carried out a credit check, it would have seen her numerous payday
loans and debts,  that every  credit card was maxed  out and that she was £5,000  overdrawn.
She had a significant online gambling  issue which she used her payday  loans  for. Mrs S
repaid the loan early in January 2018, but only because she sold her house to repay her
debts.
MYJAR said that before granting  the loan, it had asked Mrs S for information about  her
monthly net income, housing costs, monthly  credit commitments (including  payments on
credit cards, personal loans and car loans) and other monthly expenses (including  food,
travel, utilities and other regular outgoings). It also conducted other checks, including a credit
check with a credit reference agency and credit scoring. It also said that it checks that
customers do not have  excessive levels of unsecured debt at the time of their loan
applications. MYJAR said that it relied on the information Mrs S had provided about  her
budget and personal circumstances  and based on the information it held, the loan would
have been affordable.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded that MYJARs checks didnt go far enough. She noted  that Mrs S
had declared to MYJAR that she had a monthly income of £3,000 and regular expenditure of
£750. But because  of the large loan amount and the duration of the repayments, she said
that it would  have been proportionate to gather more information from Mrs S about her short
term lending. If MYJAR  had done  this, it would have seen that Mrs S had £2,455 in existing
short term lending commitments  to five other lenders that month.  So the adjudicator  said that
Mrs S was unable to sustainably meet the repayments and recommended  that MYJAR
should:
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mrs S paid on her loan;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of
  settlement*;
- Remove any negative information  about the loan from Mrs Ss credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax MYJAR has taken off if she asks for one. If
MYJAR intend to apply  the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so
after deducting the tax.
MYJAR disagreed. It said that it used statistical data which showed that Mrs S would have
needed £436 each month in order to provide herself  with a minimum standard of living after
paying her bills. It calculated Mrs Ss net disposable  income which it reduced by 40% to
achieve an overall affordability  score.  It then calculated  Mrs Ss monthly affordable amount
to be £577.60.  So Mrs Ss highest  loan instalment of £371.02  was within  this amount.
Ref: DRN75722852MYJAR also said that it checked that its customers didnt have excessive levels of
unsecured debt. It noted that the adjudicator  had said that Mrs Ss existing payday loans
totalled £2,455 and that its loan amount was around the same amount. So MYJAR said that
it was more manageable for Mrs S to have its instalment loan to consolidate her debts  over a
longer term and with lower interest.  There was no reason for it to refuse the loan as Mrs S
could easily  afford it.
The adjudicator responded to say that MYJARs evidence showed that it didnt ask Mrs S
about her outstanding payday loans and so it wouldnt have known what Mrs S would be
using the money  for. She noted that within two weeks  of MYJARs loan, Mrs S had asked for
four more  loans from other lenders totalling over £2,100. She said that MYJAR would have
been aware of Mrs Ss reliance on short term lending if it had asked her about this and not
lent to her.
Mrs S responded to say that she hadnt borrowed from MYJAR to consolidate  her other
loans.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to MYJAR on 7 December 2018.  I summarise my findings:
I explained that MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks  to make 
sure Mrs S could afford to repay  the loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs S was borrowing, the length of the loan 
agreement and her lending history. But there  was no set list of checks MYJAR had to do.
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mrs S took 
her loan from MYJAR. Its regulations for lenders are set out in its consumer credit 
sourcebook. These regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The FCA defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments  
without undue difficulty. It says this means  borrowers should be able to make  their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.
I noted that the loan needed  to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments. So the amounts that 
Mrs S needed to repay each month were smaller than if shed taken a normal  payday  loan.  
But she was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs S. I noted that MYJAR had 
taken details of Mrs Ss income  (£3,000) as well as details about her housing  costs, (£400), 
other monthly expenses  (£200) and monthly  credit  repayments (£150).
I also noted that MYJAR had carried out a credit check. It had summarised this and it 
appeared that Mrs S had taken eight  new accounts in the previous three months, her 
balances had increased on 11 accounts in the previous three months,  her unsecured  debt 
was almost £20,000 and her monthly  debt repayments appeared to be £720.
I also noted MYJARs affordability report which showed that Mrs S had four loans totalling
Ref: DRN75722853£850.
So, in view of the information provided  by the credit  check, I didnt think MYJAR could be
confident that the information  Mrs S had provided  reflected  her true financial position,
especially relating  to her other debt and her monthly  credit  repayments. I also thought that
further checks were reasonable as the loan was to be repaid over 12 months.  So, I thought it
would have been proportionate for MYJAR  to have asked Mrs S some more questions  about
what the credit checks showed.
I couldnt see if MYJAR did ask Mrs S any more about her outstanding credit. So Id tried to
find out more  about  this by looking at Mrs Ss bank  statements for the month  prior to
MYJARs loan, to see what better checks would have shown it. I could see that Mrs S
received payday  loans  totalling £498 which would  have required repayment around  the
same time as MYJARs  loan. I could also see Mrs S was paying regular financial 
commitments of around £826. I noted  that Mrs S had told MYJAR  that she made  monthly 
credit repayments of £150. But, taking into account  Mrs Ss disposable income of £2,250, I 
didnt think the loan and credit card repayments shown in the statements were sufficient for 
me to conclude that MYJARs loan wasnt affordable. So, if MYJAR  had carried  out what I 
considered to be proportionate  checks before the loan, I thought  it was likely that MYJAR 
would have still concluded that this loan was affordable. So I didnt think it was wrong to give 
Mrs S this loan.
I appreciated that Mrs Ss financial situation was actually much worse  than shed told 
MYJAR. Shed said she had gambling  issues. But Mrs S hadnt  told MYJAR about these and 
I didnt think this was information that, what I considered to be proportionate checks  on this 
loan, would have  uncovered. So I didnt  think it was reasonable  for Mrs S to have expected  
MYJAR to have factored her gambling into its assessment of the affordability of the loan.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs S or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
MYJAR hasnt provided any further  information in response to my provisional decision.
Mrs S responded to say that she disagreed.  She said,  in summary, that MYJAR hadnt 
carried out proportionate or appropriate  checks before lending to her. The loan amount was 
significant and she had to repay the loan over a whole year.  Mrs S said that MYJAR  should 
have asked her for her bank statements to demonstrate her financial situation. If it had done 
this, it would have  uncovered her gambling  issues. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully thought  about Mrs Ss response  to my provisional decision, and Im sorry to 
read about her personal and health  issues.
I note that Mrs S said that MYJAR hadnt carried out proportionate  checks and that it should 
have asked for her bank  statements. In my provisional decision Id considered that Mrs Ss 
loan was a first loan with MYJAR and noted the amount of her 12 loan repayments and the 
amount of her income. Id also considered the results of MYJARs  credit check. And Id 
concluded that MYJARs checks werent sufficient and it should have asked Mrs S more 
Ref: DRN75722854about what the credit checks  showed.  I thought that it should have asked Mrs S more about 
her credit commitments.  But I didnt think that at that stage of MYJARs relationship with 
Mrs S that it needed to independently check the true state of Mrs Ss finances by asking to 
see her bank statements.
Id tried to find out more  about Mrs Ss credit commitments by looking at her bank  
statements for the month prior to MYJARs  loan. But MYJAR wouldnt have been obliged  to 
check Mrs Ss bank  statements to find out more about  her credit commitments.  It could have,  
for example, asked  Mrs S specifically about these. Id noted  the credit  commitments shown 
on Mrs Ss bank statements in the month before the loan. And as set out in my provisional 
decision, I didnt  think it would be reasonable for me to conclude from what  Id seen that 
Mrs S didnt have enough  left over from her normal income to repay her loan from MYJAR. 
The loan repayments appeared  affordable  based  on Mrs Ss declared disposable income 
and the credit commitments  shown  on her bank statements. So I still dont think that carrying 
out what I consider  to be proportionate checks wouldve uncovered anything that wouldve 
stopped MYJAR  from giving the loan to Mrs S. 
I appreciate that Mrs S says that her financial situation was very poor. She was borrowing 
from a number of short  term lenders  and she was using some of that money to support her 
gambling. But the gambling wasnt something  Mrs S had told MYJAR about when she 
applied for the loan.  And I dont think it was something that what I consider to be 
proportionate checks would have discovered  either.  
So, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions, and overall I dont think that 
MYJAR was wrong to provide  the loan to Mrs S.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7572285