K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax, unfairly declined  their 
claim for storm  damage.  They say they went  ahead  with the repairs on Halifaxs instruction, 
but its surveyor later declined the claim after there  was no damage left to inspect.
background
Mr and Mrs H made  a claim for storm damage  to their roof. There was also water  damage to 
the inside  of their home. Mr H told Halifax by email that they wished to make a claim on their 
home insurance. They said the incident had occurred four weeks earlier   but their roof had 
been covered  by a tarpaulin.  In his email Mr H also explained that they hadnt told Halifax  
about the incident earlier because they were waiting  for their builder to confirm what work 
was needed, who was beginning the repairs  in a few days.
Halifax spoke to Mrs H three days after receiving Mr Hs email, but the repairs  were already 
underway. Halifax told Mrs H that because the repairs  had started it couldnt validate the 
damage, so it couldnt confirm it would deal with the claim. But Halifax asked Mrs H for 
photos and a detailed report from their builder  to consider. 
On receipt of the builders photos  and invoice, Halifax  appointed a surveyor. The surveyor  
reported that the area of the roof that hadnt been  repaired  was inadequately constructed;  
and the valley lining  was defective  and showing signs of wear and tear, and long term 
issues. The surveyor therefore concluded  that it was likely the repaired area had also been 
defective, so they declined  the claim.
Mr and Mrs H complained. In response  Halifax said it couldnt  find a record of it authorising 
the repairs and it highlighted the following policy term: Do not throw  away any damaged  
items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry out any non-emergency repairs  
before we have  had a chance to inspect them. Halifax also concluded  that the claim had 
been correctly  declined due to signs of wear and tear on other parts of the roof.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought  Halifax had declined 
the claim fairly because  it hadnt been given  an opportunity to inspect the damage before 
repairs were undertaken.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so their complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. They reiterated that they were doing  the repairs on Halifaxs instruction.
Halifax has since raised concern that the repairs relate to a previous claim for storm damage 
that was cash settled without an inspection. The first claim was made 13 weeks before the 
second claim  and five weeks  after the first claim was made Mr H told Halifax the repair  had 
failed or their builder  had caused further issues because water marks had reappeared on 
their ceiling. Halifax declined to cover any further costs on the first claim because  faulty 
workmanship isnt covered under their policy. 
Mr H also chased the cash  settlement on the first claim by email, six days  after the second  
incident is said to have happened; and Halifax has questioned why Mr H didnt mention the 
second incident when chasing  the first settlement.
Ref: DRN71985552my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When the evidence is inconclusive or 
incomplete, as some  of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   that 
is, what I consider is most likely to have  happened, in light of the evidence that is available  
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Firstly, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs recollections that they were  working under  the 
instruction of Halifax when completing the repairs on the second claim.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs H and Halifax. This took place three days  after Halifax 
was notified of the claim by email. Mrs H explained that the roof was stripped by the builder 
after the storm and then covered with a tarpaulin. During the call Mrs H also explained the 
builder was on the roof completing  the repairs. The handler advised  Mrs H that because 
Halifax hadnt had a chance  to validate the claim,  it could be declined   but the handler 
asked for the builder  to take photos and provide a report.
Mr H has told us that he had the initial call with Halifax and he was told to go ahead with the 
work as long as he took photos.  He says that Mrs Hs call was with the business appointed  
to assess the damage  and this call came after he had already been told to go ahead.  But 
Ive listened to Mrs Hs call and Im satisfied it was with Halifax,  not its surveyor (which 
hadnt yet been appointed). 
There was no suggestion during Mrs Hs call, or in Mr Hs initial email, that discussions had 
already taken place.  Halifax  also says it cant find any record  of a call taking place for this 
claim before Mr Hs email reporting  the incident.  Our investigator  has also asked Mr H for 
phone records to support  what he says, and Mr H has told us about two calls.  However,  the 
first call took place before  the incident  had happened (so its likely that call was about  the 
first claim),  and the second  call took place after Mrs Hs phone call.
So having  considered all the information  weve been  provided,  on balance,  Im persuaded 
the roof was stripped and the repairs scheduled  before Halifax  was even notified of the 
damage, and that it didnt give the go ahead on either of these actions.  
Although Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H were told by Halifax they could start the repairs 
without an inspection on their second claim, Ive considered whether the claim should still 
succeed. 
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service  would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those  are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and all the evidence  with these three 
questions in mind.
Halifax has confirmed that there  were  storm conditions on the date the damage is reported 
to have happened, so Im satisfied the claim meets the first condition.
Ref: DRN71985553The next two conditions are much  more difficult to satisfy  not only because the works had 
already started  before Halifax  could inspect,  but also because  the only photos of the roof 
presented by Mr and Mrs H were of it already stripped. So theres nothing  to show the 
damage caused by the storm or the condition of that area of the roof. 
The builders  invoice does  describe the cause of the damage as high winds, and some of the 
works listed seem consistent  with repairs needed following a storm. But even if I were to give 
the benefit of doubt by deciding all the repairs on the invoice were typical  of damage caused  
by storm winds  having weighed the limited evidence available,  on balance,  Im persuaded 
the claim fails our third condition. 
I say this because,  based on the surveyors observations, I consider it likely that the main 
cause of the damage was the roof had deteriorated  over a period of time and it had been 
poorly constructed; and the storm conditions  simply highlighted the problem, rather than 
caused it. This type of damage is specifically  excluded under the policy.
The policy terms explain  that Halifax should  be given an opportunity  to inspect  before non-
emergency repairs are completed,  which Im persuaded wasnt the case here.  So in view of 
that, and the limited  photos, I dont consider it unreasonable for the surveyor  to have based 
their conclusions on the condition of another  part of the roof  and Ive not been told 
anything that leads me to doubt the surveyors observations.
Furthermore, although Mr and Mrs H say the damage for the second claim was in a different 
area, both claims relate to the annexe. We have asked Mr and Mrs H if they can provide any 
documentary evidence  to show  that the poor workmanship following the first claim  was put 
right prior to the second incident, but it hasnt  been forthcoming. So Im also not persuaded 
the second claim is unrelated to the poor workmanship following the first claim.
Therefore, having  carefully considered the available information, and taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt acted unreasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Hs 
second storm damage claim.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H. But for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold 
this complaint against Bank of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7198555