K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss M has said she was not given  adequate  information or an explanation about  PPI. She 
has said she would never have benefitted from the policy and she didnt need  it because of 
the sick pay she would have received from her employer at the time.
These events took place  a considerable time ago and I certainly  dont doubt Miss Ms 
recollections about being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and honestly held. Records show  
that she applied  for her credit card through the post.  We know this because weve been sent 
the postal application form she filled out and signed.
Having looked  at the application, I can see it gave  what  appears to be an obvious choice to 
either have,  or not have, the PPI. Miss M ticked the box to add the PPI policy  and she 
signed the form too. If Miss M didnt want PPI, she did not have to tick to take it  she 
could have left the box unticked.  So I think Barclays made it clear that Miss M didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this now many years later.
As this was a postal application, I think Miss M would have completed the application 
without any intervention from Barclays. I also think she would have done this in her own 
time. So it wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt  therefore need to make  sure the 
policy was suitable  for Miss M. The decision about buying the cover and whether it was 
right for her was for Miss M to make.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Miss M has said she would have received six months full followed by six months  half sick 
pay from her employer  at the time. But this policy would  cover 10% of the outstanding  
balance of her account for up to 12 months  if she was too sick to work or she lost her job. 
And this would be in addition  to, and potentially  for longer, than any sick pay she would 
receive at full pay. So I still think the PPI would  have been useful to her.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:  
Ref: DRN78785722Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Miss M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7878572