K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Amigo Loans Ltd irresponsibly gave him a loan and two further  top-up 
loans. 
background 
In July 2014, Amigo approved a £5,000 loan application for Mr E repayable  over two years. 
Two top-up loans  were also later approved. One for £5,000  in August 2015 repayable over 
four years (£2,757.62  was used to settle loan one),  and another  for £5,750 in December 
2016 repayable over two years (£4,488.64 was used to settle loan two).
Mr E complained to Amigo  about  being given  the loans. He says he had a gambling problem 
and Amigo would have  found this out if a thorough check had been completed. He says he 
told Amigo he was taking  out the loans  in order to consolidate his existing debts. He says 
they should have realised  he hadnt  done this each time he requested  a top up.  
Amigo says it carried out a thorough check each time it lent money to Mr E which included a 
telephone call where it asked several  questions about his existing debts  and ability to repay. 
It said for the first loan it could see Mr E had several defaults recorded on his credit  file but 
as these were all historic it didnt suggest he was in financial difficulty anymore. It said 
questions were also asked about  Mr Es future  expenditure (as he was going to be moving 
out of his parents home) and this showed  he had sufficient disposable income  to afford  the 
repayments for the loan. 
Amigo said that when  Mr E applied for the top-up loans some of his previous debts had been 
paid off since the previous loan was taken out. It said this reassured  it that Mr E had used its 
loan for debt consolidation. 
I sent Mr E and Amigo my provisional decision on 22 May 2019.  My provisional  decision 
initially summarised the regulatory  framework,  relevant law and relevant publications (this is 
copied in full in the appendix to this decision in order to give proper context to this final 
decision). I then explained why I thought Mr Es complaint should be upheld.  A copy of the 
relevant part of my provisional decision is below:
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E 
would be able to repay his loans  in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr E wouldve been  able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Amigo ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing Mr Es indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt  have provided 
further loans?
Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ref: DRN79983222Amigo was required to carry  out a reasonable assessment  of Mr Es ability  to repay  the 
borrowing in a sustainable way. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability risk check.  
These checks should be sufficient to ensure  the borrower can repay the debt sustainably 
without undue difficulty. 
The thoroughness  of the check Amigo carries out should be proportionate to the situation, 
taking into consideration:
the customers circumstances (including  their lending history);
the amount  of credit and total repayable;
the term of the loan;
the size of the repayments; and 
any other relevant  factors. 
The checks  Amigo carried out for all three  loans were broadly the same.  
Did Amigo complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E would be 
able to repay her loans  in a sustainable  way? 
Amigo had a discussion with Mr E prior to approving the initial  loan. It asked him about  the 
reason he needed the loan, which Mr E said was for paying  off existing debts and a lump 
sum towards  the cost of moving out of his parents house. Amigo  asked him about  his 
expected future outgoings once hed moved  out (as these were  likely to be higher), and it is 
these higher figures it used to assess his regular  outgoings. 
Amigo also asked about Mr Es existing debts. Ive seen that Amigo had completed a credit 
check which showed Mr E owed around £10,500 to 14 other creditors. Only one of those 
debts didnt have  adverse  data recorded against it in the previous six months, eight were 
defaulted and a further three were at least five months in arrears. So I dont agree with 
Amigo when it says Mr Es financial difficulties appeared  to be historic.  From the information  
it had available  it ought to have been very clear  that hed had recent problems managing  
debts and that there was a possibility he might  have been struggling financially.
Mr E explained to Amigo that he had £2,000 in savings  and his parents were also going to 
give him another £2,000  to help clear his debts.  He said hed also use a little over half of the 
£5,000 borrowed  from Amigo to pay back his existing debts. Amigos representative seems 
to have had some concerns about what Mr E was saying. He asked Mr E to confirm that he 
was certain he had these  savings  available  to pay back his existing debts. The way this was 
positioned in the call persuades me that Amigo wouldnt have granted the loan unless this 
money was available to Mr E. 
But instead  of seeking proof of the savings which appeared  important to its lending decision,  
Amigo granted the loan anyway. I dont think this was a reasonable decision to make. There 
were already  clear  signs that Mr E might  be in financial difficulty  and Amigo was willing to 
rely on self-declared  savings, which on the face of it wouldnt seem reasonably plausible that 
he had access to. I say this because Mr E was clearly thousands of pounds in debt and four 
of those debts  were payday  loans. Mr Es use of payday lending called into question  whether 
he really had these  funds available. 
So taking all of this into consideration, I dont  think Amigo  carried  out a proportionate  check  
for the first loan. I dont think Amigo did enough to establish that Mr E would be able to 
sustainably repay  the borrowing over the term.
Ref: DRN79983223would proportionate checks more likely than not have  shown that Mr E couldnt sustainably  
repay these  loans?
As Ive concluded that Amigo didnt carry out proportionate checks, I now need to consider 
whether its lending decision ought likely to have  been any different if a proportionate  check  
had been carried  out. 
I cant be certain what additional information  and evidence  Amigo would have asked for if it 
had picked up on the concerns Ive mentioned earlier in my decision.  But I do think it would 
have been proportionate  for it to have  verified  Mr Es declared savings and outgoings. This is 
because of the number of concerns (as Ive highlighted  earlier)  about possible financial 
difficulties and his ability to sustainably repay the borrowing.  
Ive reviewed Mr Es current account statements from around the time each loan was 
granted to get an idea of what information Amigo would  likely have seen  if it had asked to 
verify his outgoings. His account shows a significant volume  of gambling transactions  which  
often exceeded  his monthly  income  and relatively regular use of payday lending.  This 
suggest to me that Mr E was reliant  on payday loans and other forms or unsustainable 
borrowing to meet his essential living costs and to further fund his gambling.  So I think that 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have  shown that Mr Es ability to repay 
these loans was largely dependent  on his success as a gambler.  This indicates Mr E was 
unlikely to be able to repay  any of the loans Amigo  gave him in a sustainable  way. 
For these reasons, I think a proportionate check would likely  have  shown Amigo that Mr E 
couldnt afford the borrowing. It follows, that the initial loan wasnt lent responsibly. 
bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Amigo ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Es indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
As Ive provisionally found that loan one shouldnt have been given, it follows that the two 
subsequent top-up loans  should  also be automatically upheld. This is because  had the initial 
loan not been granted  it wouldnt  have been  possible  for Mr E to apply for top-ups. But in any 
event, I think it would be helpful to set out why I think Amigo ought to have  realised with both 
loans two and three  that further  borrowing was unsustainable for Mr E. 
loan two
Mr E applied for the first top up loan around  a year after the initial loan. Again there  was a 
phone call with Amigo before the loan was granted. Mr E said he wanted the top up loan to 
consolidate his existing debts (including his current loan with Amigo).  Mr E said he was still 
living with his parents  and had decided not to move out until all of his debts were cleared. 
Amigos credit check  showed Mr E had ten outstanding creditors (one of which  was Amigo) 
with a combined debt of around £9,500. Mr E explained that all of the outstanding debts 
would be consolidated by the new loan or paid off through savings that he had. He told 
Amigo he had managed to save around  £2,800. 
Amigo says that because Mr E had used the previous  loan to consolidate  some  of his 
existing debts (as he said he would) then it didnt have any concerns about  granting him the 
second loan. But given what Amigo knew, I dont think  this was a reasonable decision to 
make without completing further checks first. 
Ref: DRN79983224I say this because  Mr E had told Amigo previously  that he had access  to £4,000  which hed 
use to pay off his existing debts. He said his aim was to clear all of his debts in order  to be 
able to buy his own property. But Mr Es overall  debt had only reduced by £1,000 between  
the first and second  loans. So Amigo ought to have  realised Mr E either may not have had 
the £4,000 savings he initially  claimed, or may have used them for something other than 
reducing his debt. 
Amigo could also see that of the four debts  Mr E said hed use loan one to pay off in full, only 
one of those debts had actually been paid off when  he applied for loan two. This should 
have raised concerns with Amigo about (a) how accurate  Mr Es self-declared  savings and 
outgoings were  and (b) his ability to sustainably  repay the loan. 
As well as granting further credit, Amigo was also agreeing to increase the term of the loan 
by an additional  four years. So I dont  think it was proportionate to only carry out essentially 
the same  check as it did with loan one  particularly because of the other concerns Ive 
highlighted above.
loan three
The checks  Amigo carried out for loan three were equally if not even more insufficient than 
for loan two. It had been a little over a year since loan two was taken out. Once again Amigo 
spoke to Mr E on the phone before  granting the loan.  Mr E explained that the new top up 
was for debt consolidation and a little bit for Christmas. 
The call was surprisingly brief, when  compared  to the calls that took place before the first 
two loans were approved.  There was very little scrutiny applied to what Mr E had said.  
Although I acknowledge the number  of creditors showing on Mr Es credit  file had halved 
between loan two and loan three. And this does indicate he likely used loan two to 
consolidate some  of his existing  debts.  
But Mr Es overall debt had again only reduced by around £1,000. This was despite him 
claiming to have had £2,800 in savings to pay off his debts when he took out loan two. I think 
this ought to have raised concerns with Amigo for the same  reasons I explained above 
(about loan two). 
Its also worth highlighting here that Mr E had declared he had in excess of £1,000  in 
disposable income each month. I think that Amigo ought reasonably to have suspected that 
this information  may have  been inaccurate. I say this because  Mr E having  disposable  
income of this amount meant that he would have  been  able to clear not only his existing loan 
with Amigo but his four other  debts  in around  eight to nine months. So on the face of it, 
Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have  questioned why Mr E needed to take out 
borrowing for a further two years and pay a high rate of interest  on it, if he genuinely had this 
level of disposable  income.
Mr E was also now entering into a pattern of borrowing with Amigo. This was his third loan in 
as many years. And he hadnt  managed  to clear his previous  two loans without taking out 
further borrowing  from Amigo.  This might suggest he was relying on borrowing to meet  
everyday living  costs. This combined  with the other points Ive mentioned ought to have 
prompted Amigo to complete  more thorough checks before agreeing  to lend as it suggested 
further borrowing  was likely to be unsustainable  for Mr E. 
Ref: DRN79983225was there  any other reason Amigo acted unfairly  in granting the credit?
Ive not seen anything that makes me think Amigo acted  unfairly  or unreasonably  towards  
Mr E in some other way. 
putting things  right
Mr E has had the benefit of being able to use the money Amigo  lent to him. It does  appear  
he did use the majority of it to pay off existing borrowing. So it would be unfair to say he 
doesnt have to pay anything back to Amigo. But Mr E shouldnt  have  been  given these 
loans. 
Mr E has borrowed a total of £8,503.74 across all three loans so this should be all he has to 
pay back to Amigo. If hes already paid back more than this, then Amigo  needs to treat any 
payments made after £8,503.74 as overpayments.  Amigo should refund any overpayment to 
Mr E adding 8% simple interest  per year from the date of overpayment  to the date of 
settlement. 
If there is still a balance for Mr E to pay, after all this has been done,  Amigo should arrange  
an affordable (interest free) repayment  plan with him. As these loans shouldnt have been 
granted, it wouldnt be fair for Amigo to report  any adverse  information  on Mr Es credit file.
Both Amigo and Mr E accepted my provisional  decision  and had no further comments to 
make. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided anything  
further, I see no reason  to depart  from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Amigo  Loans Ltd to:
Remove all interest and charges from the three loans so that Mr E only owes Amigo  
a total of £8,503.74.
If Mr E has already paid more  than £8,503.74 to Amigo  then it should  refund any 
overpayment to him. It should add 8% simple interest  per year from the date of any 
overpayment to the date of settlement.   
Remove any adverse  data entries for these three loans from Mr Es credit  file. 
If Amigo considers tax should be deducted  from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Mr E with a certificate showing how much  its taken off. This is so Mr E can reclaim 
that amount,  assuming he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79983226
Ref: DRN79983227appendix  relevant  considerations  as set out in my provisional  decision
the regulatory framework
regulation by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (from  1 April 2014)
Amigo gave Mr E all three loans after regulation  of Consumer Credit  Licensees had transferred from 
the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.  Amigo 
initially obtained interim  permission to provide  consumer  credit before it went  on to successfully apply 
for authorisation as a consumer credit provider. 
Amigos interim permission to provide consumer  credit and its eventual  authorisation  to do so meant 
that it was subject to the FCA rules  and regulations  from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers  like Amigo when 
providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms  obligations  in relation to responsible lending. 
Section 5.2.1R (2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a borrower a 
loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account the information of which the 
firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, to 
make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G (2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1)  says:
Ref: DRN79983228In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments  under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable 
commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, within 
a reasonable period;  and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise  security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite  meaning.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  says:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  customers 
income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
CONC also contains the additional obligations  owed  by guarantor  loan providers to guarantors  when  
providing a guarantor loan. The additional requirements in relation  to an assessment  of the 
guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC  5.2.5R. 
As the guarantor isnt a party to this complaint, I dont think that its necessary  to set out all the rules 
and guidance relating  to the additional obligations owed to guarantor in this decision. That said I do 
think its useful for me to set out CONC 5.2.6G which says:
(2) The provision of the guarantee or indemnity (or both), and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R , does  not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under  CONC  5.2.1R or CONC 
5.2.2R.  Firms are reminded of the rule in CONC  5.3.4R  that the assessment of 
the borrower must not be based primarily or solely  on the value of any security provided 
by the borrower.
Ref: DRN79983229Section 140 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Es loans were given to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act came into force  on 
6 April 2007. Section 140A  sets out circumstances where the court may determine  that the 
relationship between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between  creditors and debtors
(1)The court  may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement  if 
it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more  of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b)the way in which  the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  
regard to all matters it thinks relevant  (including matters  relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court  shall (except  to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done  (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation 
to, an associate or a former  associate  of the creditor as if done (or not done)  by, or on 
behalf of, or in relation  to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship  
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  agreement  
which is an exempt  agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order  (regulated mortgage 
contracts and regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could  make should it determine  that the relationship  
between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section  140B says:
140B Powers  of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or more of 
the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to repay (in 
whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor, the associate 
or the former associate or to any other person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to do or not to do 
(or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection  with the 
agreement or any related agreement;
Ref: DRN799832210(c)reduce or discharge  any sum payable  by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct the return to a surety of any property provided  by him for the purposes of a 
security;
(e)otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a 
surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, between 
any persons.
other relevant publications 
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that regulated/authorised lenders have to adhere to. But 
they represent a minimum standard for firms.  Im also required to take into account  any other 
guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio Strategy  Letter to firms  providing high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all the firms it 
allocated to its High  Cost Lenders portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that 
High Cost Lenders pose  to consumers and the markets they operate  in. On page two of this letter, the 
FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed their 
strategies and business models. We considered  a wide range of information and data, including firms 
regulatory histories, the number and nature  of complaints,  and findings from the HCCR.  We also 
carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which  involved issuing  a data request to firms in 
October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways  that consumers may be harmed across the High Cost 
Lenders portfolio:
a high volume  of relending, which  may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient, leading  to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor lending:
the proportion of loan repayments that guarantors make has risen considerably, which  
could indicate  that affordability on the part of the borrowers is falling
On page three  of the letter,  in the section  entitled  Complaints it says:
We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing the root causes of complaints and 
taking into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant decisions.  We gave further detail 
about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in the Dear CEO  letter we issued to 
HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work was provided on page four of the letter. The section  
entitled Additional focus  for firms  providing guarantor lending said:
Ref: DRN799832211As well as the areas of focus  above, we will also prioritise  our supervisory work with firms that provide 
guarantor loans in the following area: 
Payments made  by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed that many guarantors  make  at least one repayment 
and the proportion of guarantors making payments  is growing. We want to understand the root 
causes for this increase,  and whether firms are conducting adequate  affordability assessments. We 
are also concerned that guarantors may not fully understand how likely it is that they will be called 
upon to make  a payment.  So, as well as our broad portfolio-wide work  on relending, we will start a 
piece of complementary  work on guarantor lending.  This will establish whether  potential guarantors 
have enough information to understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being  
enforced.
the FCAs Dear  CEO letter  on affordability of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all HCSTC  
providers. The letter was about the issues surrounding the increase in complaints about unaffordable 
lending.
The third paragraph of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published  four examples of determinations of individual 
complaints about payday  loans to illustrate its approach to the issues raised in those complaints  (see: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant,  firms should  take 
these examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their own effective procedures 
for complaints  handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged  in our 
price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we were concerned that repeat 
borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is harmful to the borrower. We 
noted that rigorous affordability assessments were key to avoiding harm  in this area, and firms should 
ensure they are making responsible assessments  of the sustainability of borrowing.
the FCA Executive  Director  of Supervisions  (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit  Summit, 
London, on 21 March  2019  
The FCAs  Executive Director of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit Summit, which  took place 
on 21 March 2019, entitled  What  can the consumer  credit sector  expect from the FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much  of what was said in the High Cost Credit portfolio strategy  letter (set out 
above) issued  on 6 March 2019. And in his speech  the Executive Director  of Supervision  said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic  increase in the use of guarantor loans  by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these  have more  than 
doubled since  2016.  
While these  products provide an opportunity for those with thin credit files - poor or limited credit 
history - we do have concerns. Concerns about affordability. Recent  work we have done in this area 
showed that many guarantors are making at least 1 payment and the proportion  of guarantors  making 
these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal evidence  that guarantors  may not understand how likely it is that they 
will be called upon to make a payment. Our work  will therefore focus on affordability and on 
Ref: DRN799832212understanding whether  potential guarantors have enough information to understand the likelihood and 
implications of the guarantee being enforced. 
We have  already amended  certain  rules  to ensure  that the protections they provide to borrowers also 
extend to guarantors, for example rules requiring forbearance, pre-contractual explanations and fair 
treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified that firms  must undertake a reasonable 
assessment of the potential for the guarantors  commitment to have a significant adverse  impact on 
their financial situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published  guidance on our view of what constitutes  
enforcement of the guarantee under  the CCA  in practice this means  we expect firms to provide 
guarantors with adequate notice before exercising  a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest rates charged on these products  considering that 
these guarantors  are deemed to be credit worthy, we will therefore be considering this and the 
business models  of these  firms.
Ref: DRN7998322