K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained Tesco Personal  Finance PLC, trading as Tesco 
Bank, wont refund him for six years  of transactions he didnt  authorise.
background
In August 2018 Mr S contacted Tesco  Bank.  He didnt recognise three 
transactions being deducted from his credit card for £16.97  each. He 
decided to cancel his card and close his credit card account.
In line with regulations, Tesco  Bank firstly refunded  transactions to 
Mr Ss account. They  then investigated  what had happened with the 
merchant whod  been making these transactions. The details they 
obtained showed Mr Ss address and email  address being used when  
the purchase was first set up in 2012. It then looked as if someone Mr S 
knew in his household had signed up to the service. Tesco Bank 
believed Mr S had authorised these transactions and re-debited his 
account.
Mr S didnt believe Tesco Bank  could  show how hed authorised these  
transactions either  by signature or other means. He brought  his 
complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included Mr Ss statements 
throughout the time of the withdrawals, as well as a phone call Mr S had 
with Tesco Bank  in December 2017.  Overall  she felt this pointed to Mr S 
having authorised the transactions.
Mr S continued to disagree with this. He believed as Tesco  Bank could 
not show  how the first transaction  was authenticated in 2012, it wasnt  
fair to say he should be liable for this and consequent transactions. Hes 
asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a similar  conclusion to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN79592752When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into 
account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been  good  industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services  Regulations  are the relevant law here. These 
primarily require  banks to refund customers if they didnt make or 
authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply 
but nothing thats  had a marked impact  on the decision  Im making here. 
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
There are two other pieces of legislation which are also relevant  here: 
the Consumer Credit Act which Mr S has referenced and the distance 
selling regulations.  Mr S should be aware that Ive considered both in 
coming to my conclusion.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the 
transactions, as well as what  Tesco Bank and Mr S have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were 
made were covered in our investigators  view of 4 May 2020. I dont 
intend to repeat everything that was said there.  I will, of course,  refer to 
those aspects which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr S 
and Tesco Bank Ive read the file thoroughly.
Ive reviewed the following issues:
Mr S has raised the question whether the transactions were 
properly authenticated when they first took place. I can see an 
initial payment of £1.99  which is more than likely the cost of the 
initial seven-day trial for the service being  bought  in October  
2012. Seven  days later a transaction of £16.97  is made,  followed 
by monthly  transactions for the next six years.
Ive reviewed the limited evidence Tesco Bank holds about this 
transaction. Whilst this doesnt  definitively confirm the merchant 
had the three-digit  code on the back  of the card when transactions 
started, I believe its more than likely they did. I say this because it 
Ref: DRN79592753would have been part of the data needed to confirm to Tesco  Bank 
the merchant had the appropriate  authentication to process the 
payment. Understandably the data Tesco Bank now holds is 
limited because of the time that has elapsed. As this is the case 
Im satisfied I can base my conclusion on what I believe must  have 
happened.
Mr S has asked whether we can share the evidence to show  the 
profile of the person who signed up to the service paid by his card. 
Tesco Bank  has shared  the fact that this was tied to Mr Ss email  
and own address with another name. Its not the case  that I need 
to see any signature  or photograph  to verify who made or 
authorised the transactions.  The merchant also confirmed  the 
account was still being logged into in September 2018.
Ive also considered that this payment of £16.97 was made every  
month to Mr Ss credit  card for more than six years. I dont dispute  
Mr S wasnt receiving  paper  statements during a lot of this period 
but it remains his responsibility  to check what  transactions were 
being made to his account.  Mr S has said he wasnt looking out for 
the transactions of £16.97  so wouldnt have noticed  them.
Mr S spoke to Tesco Bank  in December 2017. During this call 
Tesco Bank  referred  to this now disputed transaction and named 
the merchant. Mr S confirmed he knew who they were.  I dont think 
its unreasonable to believe in doing this Mr S was saying hed 
authorised these transactions.
I note the name of the merchant in all likelihood changed in mid-
2018. The merchant  debited Mr Ss account  on 25 April under the 
old name. There are then no further  transactions until 13 August 
when three payments of £16.97  under the new name are debited.  
Mr S noticed  straightaway and contacted Tesco Bank.  This 
suggests to me it could  be the change of name which prompted 
Mr S to notice these transactions.  It may be hed always known 
transactions under the old name were authorised.
Overall considering the evidence I believe  Mr S authorised  the 
transactions. I wont be asking  Tesco Bank to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given,  my final decision is not to uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint against  Tesco Personal  Finance PLC, trading as Tesco  Bank.
Ref: DRN79592754Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision before 29 June 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7959275