K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2005. Mr D says Bank of Scotland PLC (Halifax  at the time) mis-sold him the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mr Ds credit card application and a copy  of the credit  
agreement that he signed at the time of sale. I can see that there was a section on his 
application called Product Details, below which there was reference to PPI. And in the box 
next to PPI there is an X. The X is computer generated like the rest of the information 
about Mr D  which is, in my view, the likely result of a conversation between him and BoS 
as both parties seem to agree  that the sale took place in branch and theres  nothing  
persuasive to suggest anything  different. 
Mr Ds credit agreement is more difficult  to decipher. But having  compared it with a clearer  
sample of the same  agreement, it looks like there was a section on PPI that gave him the 
opportunity to commit to the decision he appears to have made during his meeting with BoS.  
I cant tell whether he ticked for the policy. But it does look like he signed for it. So Im 
satisfied he agreed  to take PPI. And given  the evidence in front of me, Im not persuaded he 
did that because  he thought he had to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr D  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time,  I think that the policy was 
suitable for him. He doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And in light of what hes told us about his own means 
of keeping up with his repayments  in the event he found himself out of or unable to work,  he 
seems to have had a need for the cover as his savings were limited  and his sick pay did fall 
away reasonably  significantly after six months.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr D clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr D about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
Ref: DRN75307662This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr D paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give Mr D back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Unless BoS has already  paid Mr D, it will make the necessary arrangements  now that Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7530766