K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about National House-Building Council, it provides a building warranty 
for his home. Mr K initially made  a claim to NHBC in 2012, which  it declined  and which he 
made again in 2015 and 2017. As NHBC has recently declined  the claim again  Mr K is 
unhappy.
background
Mr K made a claim to NHBC in 2012 about water getting into his home  in two areas. As the 
claim had been  made in years three to ten of the warranty, NHBC considered the claim 
under section 3. NHBC noted that the applicable policy  wording was:
 
What NHBC will pay for
A The full Cost, if it is more than 500 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical  Damage  
caused by a Defect in [certain] parts of the house,  bungalow,  maisonette or flat.
NHBC noted that indexing at that time meant  the value the claim would need to exceed in 
order to be accepted was £880.  It completed a repair scope and found the cost to it did not 
reach that sum. It declined the claim.  
Mr K repeated the claim  in 2015  and NHBC undertook investigations. It recommended  some 
further repairs but maintained the claim was declined. Mr K didnt complete any repairs  and 
in 2017 he made the same claim again. NHBC reviewed the repair  costs  and felt they were 
still within the £880 minimum claim value. It declined the claim  again.  
Mr K complained to this service and an investigator reviewing the matter initially  felt it had 
been unfair for NHBC  to rely on its cost to repair in order to decline the claim.  NHBC 
challenged her opinion  and she reviewed it. She said NHBC should consider further quotes 
from Mr K. Mr K believed NHBCs challenge of the findings had been unfair but he provided 
it with further quotes.
Having reviewed the further quotes  NHBC said it felt they were excessive and included  work 
that it hadnt agreed was necessary. Mr K said that was not the case,  the quotes had been 
based on NHBCs scope.  But he also said more work was needed  than NHBC had scoped 
for. NHBC  maintained that the cost to it for the work agreed as necessary in 2012 was below 
the indexed value necessary for a valid claim.  It wasnt minded to do anything or make  any 
payment to Mr K and he made a further  complaint to this service.  
Our first investigator had left so a different  investigator reviewed matters.  She felt that 
NHBC, in answering  Mr Ks claim and complaint had fairly  applied the applicable policy  
wording. She didnt  uphold the complaint or make any recommendation against NHBC. 
Mr K said he wouldnt  accept our view unless we could provide  proof to him that it would only 
cost NHBC its stated  sum to complete  the work. He also said he was disappointed that our 
initial investigator had felt that NHBC couldnt rely on its costs and her provisional decision 
was reversed only after NHBC  questioned the validity  of the quotation I provided. He noted 
that the current investigators findings  had changed dramatically and he said that brought  
them into doubt.  He asked that an ombudsman  review  matters.
 
Ref: DRN74135292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any 
disappointment this causes Mr K, I dont intend  to uphold his complaint.  
I appreciate that this has been a long on-going  matter for Mr K and I understand it is 
important to him. I know he received some previous findings from our service but Id clarify 
that he has not had a decision from an ombudsman  previously, either a provisional or a final 
one. And our investigators issue views. If both sides accept a view issued by an investigator 
then the matter closes. But if either doesnt then the matter moves on for a formal  decision 
by an ombudsman. An ombudsman  isnt bound to reach the same findings as an investigator  
 although we strive for consistency throughout the service to try to ensure investigators are 
aware of what ombudsmen are likely to conclude on certain  issues. But as each case  is 
taken on its own merits, subject to the evidence provided, and considered by individuals  
there are, unavoidably, occasions  where  investigators views will differ  from decisions 
reached by an ombudsman.
That said my decision  on this complaint is the same as the view of the investigator  that 
considered it immediately prior to it being  passed  to me. She considered  NHBCs policy 
liability in line with the policy wording, and I have little to add in addition to that. In summary 
NHBCs policy doesnt cover work  that will cost it less than the index linked value applicable 
to the cover.  NHBC has satisfied me that its cost, in this case, is less than that. And Im 
aware it has shared  its repair scopes  with Mr K, so he knows  what work its costs are based 
on. The fact that Mr Ks quotes come in significantly more  than NHBCs doesnt  change what  
Mr K is entitled to receive and NHBC is liable for under the policy.  Whilst I appreciate it is 
frustrating for Mr K, I cant reasonably require NHBC to act outside of the policy  in place.
It may help Mr K to understand that many  insurance  policies  general household policies as 
well as building warranties  often contain  a clause that allows an insurer  to settle claims in 
line with what it will cost them to complete the work. As long as an insurer  applies such a 
clause fairly,  we wont interfere. Here,  in light of NHBCs  policy wording which  requires a 
certain value to be reached  before  the claim is accepted, NHBC, in my view,  has not treated 
Mr K unfairly.
  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7413529