K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Covea Insurance  plc unfairly declined  part of his buildings  insurance claim.
background
Mr L contacted Covea in December 2017 to report a leak on the flat roof of his kitchen. He 
said this had only become evident  following a partial collapse of the kitchen ceiling. Mr L 
made a claim on his buildings insurance  for storm damage.
Covea declined Mr Ls claim. It said it had been unable  to confirm the cause of the damage. 
Mr L had gone  ahead  with the works  before it could investigate.  Given the age of the flat roof 
it thought the main  problem was related to its life expectancy.  It said that as Mr L had 
accidental damage  cover it would meet his claim for repairs  to his kitchen ceiling.
Mr L had a number  of concerns about what happened. For example, he told us Covea were  
happy for the work to be carried out to avoid further  damage, minimise costs and reduce the 
inconvenience to his family. He says the roof had been well maintained  and he feels Covea 
are calling his integrity into question.
Our investigator didnt  think a storm was the main  cause  of the damage to the roof. He didnt 
uphold the case. Mr L disagreed, so his complaint  has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
When Im thinking about cases  involving storm damage I ask myself three questions. Was 
there a storm on or around the date of loss? Is the nature of the damage  claimed  for 
consistent with storm damage? And were the storm conditions the main cause of the 
damage?
Its only if I think the answer to each  of these questions is yes that Id say Covea should be 
liable to pay the claim. Based on the information  Ive been given by both parties, I dont think  
thats the case here. Ill explain  why.
Ive listened to the initial call that Mr L made  to his insurer about his claim on 8 December 
2017. During the call Covea  checked and accepted thered been stormy conditions in the 
area around  the time the damage had become  apparent.  So theres no dispute on this point.
Covea wanted  to send one of its agents to review  the damage  to Mr Ls roof. But he 
confirmed in the call that the work  had already  been done. Covea then asked for a report  
from the contractor he used detailing the cause of the damage.
Mr L sent an email to Covea on 11 December 2017, which included a message from his 
contractor that The cause of damage  to the roof was storm damage.  Mr L also provided us 
with an undated  invoice on headed paper from the contractor  in which  it was stated the 
cause of damage  was wind lifted felt  water got in damaged boards so we had to [re]place 
complete flat kitchen  roof.
Ref: DRN71977452I note the contractor recorded on the invoice weve been given that the works were  carried  
out on 15 December  2017. If this were  correct it would indicate Covea couldve been given 
an opportunity to inspect  the damaged roof prior to works starting. I can only assume  this is 
an error by Mr Ls contractor given what hed told Covea in his claim call.
Covea didnt feel it could  rely on the information it had been provided about  how the damage 
was caused to Mr Ls roof. So it asked one of its agents to carry out a desktop validation  
using the information that was available. It concluded the damage had been caused  by rain 
water ingress ongoing over a long period of time.
Neither the contractor  nor Coveas agent has provided evidence that provides absolute 
certainty about the cause of the damage to the roof. The main problem is that a full 
investigation wasnt possible  because the works were completed prior to Mr L notifying his 
claim. And despite  what he told us in response  to the investigators view, Ive not found  any 
evidence to show Covea  authorised or approved works prior to them taking place.
In his call to Covea  Mr L confirmed that his flat roof was about  20 years  old. He also 
indicated that he thought  the leak in his roof must have been ongoing.
On balance I give more  weight to the insurers evidence  about the most likely cause of 
damage to Mr Ls roof  that it was effectively wear and tear. Mr L hasnt done enough to 
show the main cause of the problem with his roof was storm damage.  
Although I understand Mr Ls concern, I dont think he should view Coveas decision to reject  
his claim for damage to his roof as a reflection on his integrity.  Rather, it tried to assess  
things in the normal way, taking into account  what his policy provided for. Im persuaded that 
Covea acted fairly when  it rejected this element of Mr Ls claim. 
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint for the reasons Ive set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7197745