K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to act on their 
instructions in May 2012 to invest £12,000  in an Index Bond. 
Theyve requested  compensation  on £12,000  thats  still in their bank account based on 
interest the other  Index Bond received when it matured.
background 
In my provisional decision of 20 August 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision,  I partially upheld the complaint and said Nat West should pay £250 
compensation for trouble  and upset caused.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, 
despite what Mr and Mrs J said, I was unable  to say that NatWest had failed to action the 
third bond.   
NatWest responded  and accepted my provisional decision to pay the sum of £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused. 
Mrs and Mrs J also responded.  They disagreed  with my conclusion and felt that Id reached 
it not having fully considered the facts of the case. Theyve made  a substantial number of 
points but in summary, they made the following key submissions:
The ombudsman has made no comment on a number of issues,  including: the 
correspondence and documentation from NatWest being full of inaccuracies; Mr J 
being incorrectly addressed by his middle name; Mrs Js being addressed by the 
wrong initial.
NatWest has failed  them through under the Sale and Supply of Goods Act 1982. 
NatWest informed them with three  different letters of three bond investments being in 
its holding account awaiting  start dates, gaining  interest. 
NatWests actions  regarding the movement of cash to and from their savings account 
caused the third bond to miss its start date and NatWest failed to correct  its mistake.  
They didnt receive any notification of these actions, and received no statements, 
when the monies were  moved.  
They had several other bank  accounts and thats  why they werent  aware of the 
£12,000 not being used  for the bond. They had no reason to doubt that the business 
wouldnt to what they wanted. 
The ombudsman said that these policies were set up in a complex way, and were 
very confusing.  So Mr and Mrs J wouldnt have been  aware  of what was going on.  
Monies were taken out of their savings account  as follows: 
ofor the Index bond  account  number ending 046 (reference number ending 
060) in joint names. 
ofor the Special Edition bond   account number ending 927 (reference ending  
033) in the name  of Mrs J only.  
ofor the Index bond (which the ombudsman has made no reference  to)  
account number  ending 564 ( reference  number ending 056) earning interest  
waiting the start date.
oAll the monies  were then paid back into the savings account.  
oMr J asks why NatWest has given them three  sets of application numbers, 
three sets of reference numbers,  and three sets of holding certificates?  
oAt this time NatWest also didnt give them any statements and never 
apologised for their actions. 
Ref: DRN75632332NatWests letter  dated 28 May 2012 with regard to their branch meeting was 
incorrect, and made  no mention of Mr and Mrs J agreeing to open two new ISAs   
but they were  nevertheless opened without their consent. 
If only two applications were contained in the business file, why were there three 
letters written to Mr and or Mrs J from NatWests investment department? 
They  Mr and Mrs J  wouldnt have agreed  to the movement of the additional  funds 
that wouldve  been done by the bank. 
All the evidence has been provided  but it has been ignored by the adjudicator.
The ombudsman hasnt acknowledged the missing bond  as the one with the joint 
names. They cant understand  why itd cause confusion as it had its own account 
number and reference number. 
NatWest to date hasnt apologised for its actions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusion  remains as set out previously, and for much the same 
reasons. I partially uphold  this complaint. 
Ive covered the points I consider to be relevant to my decision  and the thrust of Mr and 
Mrs Js key points have  already been covered. Therefore I dont feel it necessary to go over 
the points again in detail.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  the purpose  of my decision isnt to address every  single 
point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs J and NatWest,  
and reach  what I think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of 
the case. 
So despite  what  Mr and Mrs J say, I still think NatWest should pay them £250 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused. 
I think much  of the confusion has been caused  by the letters referred to by Mr and Mrs J, 
thats resulted  in them thinking three separate investments were  started.  
But on the on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what they say, Im unable to 
say that the business made  a mistake  resulting in only two investments starting rather  than 
three  and then failed  to rectify  the mistake leaving Mr and Mrs J with only two investments. 
Im not persuaded that the fund movements, which  I appreciate are confusing  but probably  
necessary given the way the interest  payments work, along with the documentation  Mr and 
Mrs J refer to, are evidence of this. 
Its primarily Mr and Mrs Js interpretation of the facts which Im not persuaded by. I note the 
2012 recommendation letter made clear that only two investments  were started. And 
NatWest has categorically confirmed that the additional letter was an error and didnt relate  
to a third bond although accepts that confusion may have been caused.  
Im also mindful that the application  form submitted also refers to only two investments  the 
Auto Pilot and the Index bond. The adjudicator notes that two of the letters were of the same 
font and one was different. He thought it was likely that one of the policies probably the joint 
policy  was mistakenly given a different  policy number. I dont know if thats correct, but 
Ref: DRN75632333whatever the explanation Im not persuaded that it related to three  different bonds  in the way 
envisaged by Mr and Mrs J. 
The amounts in the holding account  are bound to attract interest because as Ive explained 
this is the process  by which  NatWest is able to honour its undertaking to pay the additional 
interest. 
NatWest acknowledges  that it didnt get things rights, made mistakes and didnt provide the 
level of service it ought to have provided  that was overall the reason for my awarding £250 
compensation for trouble  and upset caused.   
On balance Im persuaded by NatWests explanation  as to the reasons for the three letters  
sent to Mr and Mrs J. It explains broadly  why NatWest sent the additional  documents.  
  
Im unable to give an answer  as to specifically why Nationwide moved  the funds in the way 
that it did and the number  of times  that it did - other than to say that it was probably the 
process necessary  to enable it to pay the interest. 
So in conclusion, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  Im unable  to safely say that 
NatWests actions  regarding the movement  of cash to and from Mr and Mrs Js savings 
account  caused the third bond to miss its start date, and that NatWest then failed to correct 
its mistake. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
partially uphold  this complaint. 
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs J £250 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75632334COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) failed to act on their 
instructions in May 2012 to invest  £12,000  in an Index Bond. 
Theyve requested  compensation on £12,000 thats still in their bank account based on interest the 
other Index  Bond received  when it matured.
background
Mr and Mrs J say they applied to invest £12,000  each  in three Bonds - two Index Bonds in joint 
names, and an Auto-Pilot Bond in Mrs Js name.
But, when they expected the Auto-Pilot Bond  and two Index Bonds to mature  in January
2018 and June 2018 respectively, they only received  a maturity value for the Auto-Pilot Bond and one 
Index Bond.
Mr and Mrs J say they completed applications to invest in three  Bonds in May 2012 and NatWest 
hasnt processed one of their applications. 
NatWest rejected the complaint. It provided applications completed  by Mr and Mrs J for two Bonds - 
the Auto Pilot and one Index  Bond - in May 2012. 
NatWest argued that, if Mr and Mrs J believed  that they applied to invest  £12,000 each  in three 
Bonds, their bank  statements and annual  Bond valuations since May 2012 wouldve  told them that 
they had invested £24,000,  and not £36,000.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  In summary he 
said:
Given the complex way the Bonds were set up  involving different policy numbers and credit 
debts  it was very difficult for Mr and Mrs J to work out what was going  on. 
But having looked at the statements  its clear  that the only amounts taken out were as follows:
o£12,015 into an Index  Bond in joint names. 
o£12,023 into an Auto-Pilot Bond in Mrs Js name only. 
NatWest has disclosed  that only two application forms were  completed.  
There was no application, statements  or valuations to confirm  a third Bond.
The missing Bond was the Index  Bond   the same  as the Index Bond held in joint names  
its likely  this is what caused confusion   but theres no evidence that a third Bond was 
applied for or set up. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. In summary Mr J made the following key 
submissions:
NatWest has failed  to use reasonable care and skill. Its breached the banking codes  which 
say that it will deal with customers  fairly.  
They  had details of three Bonds being put in NatWests holding  account. 
They  had several bank accounts  in operation at the time and the Bonds were set up in a very 
complex way, which  is why they didnt  notice  £12,000  not being  used. 
Despite what the adjudicator says about seeing only two applications, why would  they have 
been sent three letters  on three  different occasions suggesting three Bonds had been set up 
having had money removed from their savings  account  and placed in a holding account.   
NatWest didnt send out an account statement for that period so they wouldnt have  known 
what was going on with their funds. 
Ref: DRN75632335If NatWest was authorised to remove money for two Bonds the withdrawals suggest it 
withdrew money  potentially  for a third Bond   without  authority which amounted  to theft. 
The adjudicator hasnt considered the evidence appropriately. 
The adjudicator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded  to change  his mind. He 
maintains that £24,000 was taken out not £36,000 even if account statements  werent provided. And 
he would expect customers to check their post-sale  documents to make sure that they have what they 
applied for. 
Mr and Mrs J maintain NatWest made the error  and had too many eggs in one basket. Its not their 
fault it didnt process a third application.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, subject to any further submissions provisionally Im 
unable to safely say that NatWest has failed  to carry out Mr and Mrs Js instructions to invest  £12,000 
in an Index Bond. 
However I think it has made a number  of administrative errors and oversights  for which Mr and Mrs J 
are due some compensation.  
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Js strength of feeling about  this matter.
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings  focus on what I consider  to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by them and NatWest, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant  law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ive seen no evidence that persuades me that Mr and Mrs J applied  to invest in a third Bond, which  
wasnt processed. 
Whilst the Bonds  may have been set up in a complex way  which  may have  been necessary  given 
the way the initial interest payments worked   on balance  I think Mr and Mrs J were likely to have 
seen at the end of the process that £12,000 remained unused and that they only had two Bonds set 
up, despite the correspondence, about the movement of funds,  between  the parties. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs J say, Im unable to safely say NatWest failed to process the applications in 
line with the instructions at the time. I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have set up a third Bond if 
thats what  they asked it to do. At the very least it wouldve meant more money  for the business  so it 
had a clear  incentive. 
Its likely  Mr and Mrs J wanted to invest  in three Bonds, and that was their intention, but owing  to an 
oversight which on the evidence Im unable  to attribute  to NatWest, they only made two applications.
Ref: DRN75632336Im not suggesting Mr and Mrs J arent telling the truth. Its possible they applied for the third Bond  
and it wasnt processed. But on a balance of probabilities  Im unable to conclude that this is what  
happened.  
I think  NatWest acted  in good faith in carrying out the instructions as they were at the time,  as 
opposed to purposefully  or negligently processing  only two of the three applications.  
Im mindful of points made by Mr J, but in light of what Ive explained above Im not persuaded that 
NatWest failed to treat Mr and Mrs J with reasonable care and skill or that it didnt treat them fairly. 
I note Mr J feels NatWests actions amount to theft even if the additional money  was returned  which 
on balance suggests  that he now accepts only £24,000 was taken  and not £36,000 which wouldve 
been indicative of only two accounts being set up . But if Mr and Mrs J still feel a crime has been 
committed they may wish to refer their complaint to the appropriate authorities. Im conscious  the 
investment process was complex and Ive seen  no evidence that NatWest had an intention to 
permanently deprive  Mr and Mrs J of their funds.  
Notwithstanding the correspondence Mr J says they received, Ive seen no evidence that an 
application was made for the Index Bond or that the £12,000 in question  was invested at all and not 
just fund movements.  Despite the movement of funds I cant say that this was because NatWest had 
missed the start date for the third bond and decided  to return the money.   
Notwithstanding all of the above, it seems to me that administrative errors were  made by NatWest  
and its records contained errors  as detailed by Mr J, but whilst none of this is evidence that a third 
Bond was applied for and not set up, I think its evidence of circumstances that would have confused 
Mr and Mrs J and added to their distress and inconvenience.  In the circumstances Im minded to say 
NatWest should pay Mr and Mrs J £250 compensation for this service related issue.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed  with my decision to partially uphold this complaint and I 
realise this isnt what they want to hear.  Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im unable to give them 
what they want. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions provisionally  I partially uphold this 
complaint. 
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs J £250  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.  
Dara Islam
ombudsman
 
 
Ref: DRN7563233