K822xcomplaint
Ms Es complaint is about the level of compensation offered to her by Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  (FICL) for a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
Ms Es complaint to this service is about  her storecard  with the account number ending 
4010. And this decision  relates to that account  only.
 In her response to my provisional  findings  Ms E has mentioned another account ending  
7283. FICL has confirmed  to us that this is a separate  account  to 4010 and was opened  in 
October 2005. If Ms E wishes to find out more about  account ending 7283  she should 
contact FICL in the first instance.
background 
In 2018 Ms E complained  about a PPI policy attached to a storecard ending 4010.
In June 2018 FICL wrote to Ms E. In the letter FICL said itd upheld her complaint and 
offered to pay her a total of £613.37.
The offer was made up as follows:
£111.73 refund of PPI premiums added to her account.
£249.96 refund of interest added to Ms Es account because of the PPI premiums
£251.68 compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple (net of tax) for the time Ms E 
had been out of pocket.
Ms E remained unhappy. She didnt accept FICLs offer £613.37 and asked us to step in.  
Ms E told us shed held the storecard for many years and therefore had paid more PPI 
premiums than FICL had refunded. Ms E thought the compensation should be much more.
An adjudicator from this service contacted FICL to ask for a detailed breakdown of the offer 
and evidence of when Ms Es PPI policy started and ended.
FICL replied and showed us screenshots of its internal  systems.  FICL told us that it had 
miscalculated Ms Es offer.
FICL said Ms Es storecard account had been applied for in March 1995.  At the time Ms E 
had not asked for any insurance policies to be added  to her account.
FICL doesnt have  detailed  statement  data from before August 2005. But it could see that in 
total Ms E had been  charged £169.73 in premiums for insurance policies. FICL originally 
thought that £58 of this was for a type of policy called Card  Protection. 
              
Card Protection is not PPI; it is a type of insurance  that protects against identity theft, fraud  
or theft of the card. 
In its original offer FICL deducted  £58 from the total insurance premiums  paid leaving 
£111.73 which it assumed were  for PPI. And it based its offer on this figure.
Ref: DRN77101022However, FICL found evidence that Ms E only ever paid one PPI premium  of £12.73. It said 
the PPI was added to Ms Es account  on 14 June 2002 and then cancelled  on 15 July 2002.  
FICL told us that all the other insurance  premiums Ms E had paid were for the Card 
Protection Policy and not for PPI. 
FICL told us it had withdrawn the original offer and had recalculated  a new offer using the 
new information. Its new offer was for £71.64 and was made up as follows:
£12.73 refund of PPI premiums added  to Ms Es account.
£29.45 refund of interest added  to Ms Es account because of the PPI premiums.
£29.46 compensatory interest  calculated at 8% simple (net of tax) for the time Ms E 
had been out of pocket.
Our adjudicator thought the evidence FICL had showed us was correct and that FICL didnt 
need to do anymore.
Ms E asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman  and the complaint was 
passed to me.
In January 2019 I issued my provisional  findings on Ms Es complaint  and invited both 
parties to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think  about.       
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to find that FICLs most  recent  offer of 
£71.64 was fair. I also said I was intending  to award  Ms E an additional £150 for the trouble 
and upset shed  experienced  because FICL miscalculated the original offer. My main  
reasons for this were:
Ms E did not accept  FICLs  original  offer of £613.37.
Ive seen evidence  which  persuaded me that Ms E only ever paid one premium of 
£12.73 for PPI.
The other amounts  shed been  charged  for insurance were for a Card Protection 
Policy against card theft and fraudulent use of the card and not for PPI.
I thought the new offer of £71.64 was fair. I could see FICL  had offered to refund the 
£12.73 premium that Ms E was charged  in July 2002. It had also agreed to refund the 
interest added  to the account because of the PPI premium. And FICL  had offered to 
pay Ms E compensatory interest  calculated at 8% simple  per year. This is what Id 
expect FICL to do so I thought  itd calculated  the latest offer of £71.64 fairly and in 
line with our guidelines.
I also thought  it must have been  upsetting for Ms E to question the original offer only 
to find that it had been calculated  wrongly and to then receive a new offer that is 
substantially lower.  From what Id seen FICL had all the information  it needed  to 
make an accurate offer the first time. I looked  at a letter dated August 2018 which 
FICL says it sent to Ms E setting out the new offer. And I found it surprising that FICL 
didnt apologise  to Ms E for its error  in sending  her the earlier, incorrect  offer. So I 
said I was intending to award Ms E an additional £150.00 to compensate her for the 
upset FICL caused her to experience due to its error.
Ref: DRN77101023.FICL has not responded to my provisional findings.
Ms E told us she wasnt happy that the revised  offer of £71.64 was lower  than the one she 
complained about.
Ms E has asked if the new offer of £71.64 is in addition to the original offer of £613.37. Ms E 
has also asked if the £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience  is in addition to the 
original offer of £613.37.
Ms E also said she recalled holding the storecard from the around the mid nineties  to 2012. 
She told us she complained in 2012  and was told she had never  held PPI. Ms E says that 
FICL should have  compensated  her in 2012.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
To clarify, in my provisional findings I found  that the new offer of £71.64 which  FICL  sent to 
Ms E in August 2018 was fair. The original  offer of £613.37 made in June 2018  was 
withdrawn by FICL. So only the £71.64  was to be paid to Ms E. 
Ms E has expressed her unhappiness that the new offer from FICL of £71.64 is much less 
than the original offer of £613.37.
Ms E didnt accept the original offer from FICL. Ive seen no evidence that Ms E signed and 
returned the acceptance form to FICL.  Because of this it wouldnt  be fair for me to hold FICL 
to its original wrongly calculated offer. Instead of accepting the offer,  Ms E sent a copy of the  
offer to this service to check if the it was fair. 
When we asked FICL for its file, it told us it had miscalculated the original offer and had 
withdrawn it, replacing it with the new offer.  It said it had told Ms E of the new offer in August 
2018.
The sequence of events was a little unclear  as FICL  says it wrote to Ms E in August 2018 
with the new offer of £71.64. But Ms E didnt contact this service until October  2018  when 
she complained  about the original offer only. But Ms E has now confirmed that she did 
receive both the original  and revised offer before she contacted us.
But in any event when  a business has mis-sold PPI we expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd  be in if the PPI had not been sold. Ive checked the latest offer of £71.64  and 
I think it does this. 
Ms E only paid one PPI premium and FICL has offered to refund this, plus interest Ms E was 
charged because  of the PPI premium, and its added compensatory interest for the time     
Ms E has been out of pocket. And this is what Id expect  FICL to do.
Ms E has told us FICL  should have  compensated her in 2012.  But the new offer includes 
interest calculated at 8% per year up to date.  So Ms E hasnt lost out because of this.
Ref: DRN77101024Because Ms E didnt  accept the original offer I dont  think  it would be fair for me to direct 
FICL to honour that offer, particularly when I am aware that it isnt accurate. 
But I do think FICLs error caused Ms E distress and inconvenience  and so I am directing 
FICL to pay her an additional  £150 to compensate her for this.
So I am directing  FICL to pay Ms E the offer of £71.64 plus £150. 
Ms E has mentioned in her reply  to my provisional  findings that she held the storecard from 
the mid-nineties  so thinks she paid more PPI premiums. But the application form shows     
Ms E didnt opt to add PPI when she took out the storecard. And FICLs  records  show  it was 
only added  in June  2002 and cancelled in July 2002. So although Ms E held the storecard 
for many years, she only ever paid one PPI premium. 
Part of the reason for FICL making  an error  on the original offer was that it thought premiums 
Ms E paid for a Card  Protection Policy were PPI premiums. Ive not looked at the sale of 
the Card Protection  Policy  in this decision.  If Ms E wants to question how this policy  came  to 
be sold to her shell need to contact FICL in the first instance.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision  I find that Financial Insurance  
Company Limiteds  latest offer of £71.64 is fair.
I direct  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  to update  the 8% simple  interest element of 
the offer and make payment to Ms E if it hasnt already done so.
I direct  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Ms E an additional £150 for the upset it 
caused by not calculating  the original offer correctly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms Es complaint  is about the level of compensation offered to her by Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited (FICL) for a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted responsibility  for the sale and 
this complaint. So Ive referred to FICL during this decision.
Ref: DRN77101025background
In 2018 Ms E complained about a PPI policy  attached to a storecard.
In June 2018  FICL wrote to Ms E. In the letter FICL said itd upheld her complaint and offered to pay 
her a total of £613.37.
The offer was made up as follows:
£111.73 refund of PPI premiums added to her account.
£249.96 refund of interest added to Ms Es account because of the PPI premiums
£251.68 compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple (net of tax) for the time Ms E had 
been out of pocket.
Ms E remained  unhappy. She didnt accept FICLs offer and asked us to step in. Ms E told us shed 
held the storecard  for many  years and therefore had paid more PPI premiums than FICL had 
refunded. Ms E thought  the compensation should be much more.
An adjudicator from this service  contacted FICL to ask for a detailed  breakdown of the offer and 
evidence of when Ms Es PPI policy started and ended.
FICL replied  and showed us screenshots of its internal systems. FICL  told us that it had miscalculated 
Ms Es offer.
FICL said Ms Es storecard account had been applied  for in March 1995. At the time Ms E had not 
asked for any insurance  policies to be added  to her account.
FICL doesnt have detailed statement data from before August 2005. But it could see that in total Ms 
E had been  charged a total of £169.73  in premiums for insurance policies. FICL  originally  thought  that 
£58 of this was for a type of policy called Card Protection.               
Card Protection is not PPI; it is a type of insurance  that protects against identity theft, fraud or theft of 
the card.  
In its original offer FICL deducted £58 from the total insurance premiums paid leaving £111.73 which  
it assumed were for PPI. And it based its offer on this figure.
However it now said it had found evidence that Ms E only ever paid one PPI premium of £12.73. It 
said the PPI was added to Ms Es account on 14 June 2002 and then cancelled  on 15 July 2002. 
FICL told us that all the other  insurance premiums Ms E had paid were for the card protection  policy 
and not for PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought the evidence  FICL  had showed us was correct  and that FICL didnt need  to 
do anymore.
FICL has told us it has withdrawn the original offer and has recalculated  a new offer using the new 
information. Its new offer is for £71.64 and is made up as follows:
£12.73 refund of PPI premiums added to her account.
£29.45 refund of interest added to Ms Es account  because  of the PPI premiums.
£29.46 compensatory interest calculated  at 8% simple (net of tax) for the time Ms E had been 
out of pocket.
Ms E has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and the complaint has been 
passed to me.
Ref: DRN77101026my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im intending  to find that FICLs  new offer is fair, Ill explain why.
In her complaint form Ms E told us she never realised she had PPI until she found a statement which 
led her to believe  PPI was on her account.
FICL has been able to show  us a copy of Ms E original  storecard  application  form. I can see that Ms E 
has ticked a box to decline  PPI. I see Ms E didnt  purchase the card protection  policy  either. So Im 
satisfied that when Ms E took out the storecard in March 1995 that she didnt purchase any insurance 
then.
Ms E has shown us two statements from her own records. These are dated January 2001 and 
January 2002.
I can see that there is no PPI premium on either of these despite  there being an outstanding balance 
on both statements.  So its clear that in Jan 2001 and January 2002 there was no PPI on Ms Es 
account. 
FICL has shown us a screenshot from its records that show PPI was sold to Ms E and added  to her 
account on 14 June  2002 and cancelled on 15 July 2002, and that only one PPI premium of £12.73 
was ever charged to the account.
There are no records  to show how the PPI was sold to Ms E in June 2002,  though its most  likely the 
PPI wouldve been added following a phone call. And it looks like it was cancelled after Ms E received  
the July statement showing a premium  of £12.73.
Taking everything into account I think its most likely that Ms E was only ever charged one PPI 
premium of £12.73. So I think its fair for FICL to base its new offer around that information.
I see the statements shown  to us by Ms E both show a Card Protection premium of £15.00. This 
also agrees  with what FICL has told us. Card  protection is not PPI. PPI is an insurance that covers 
against accident, sickness and unemployment. The card protection policy  gave cover against identity 
theft or stolen  cards. Its normally paid for with an annual  charge like the ones that appear on the 
statements shown to us by Ms E.
FICL knows that Ms E was charged a total of £169.73  for insurance premiums. So if £12.73 is 
deducted from that figure for the PPI premium charged in July 2002 it leaves £157.00.  And I think its 
likely that represents several years  of card protection policy premiums.
From what Ive seen Ms E hasnt complained about the sale of the card protection policy. If Ms E 
wants to question  how this policy came to be sold to her shell need to contact FICL in the first 
instance.
Ive next looked at the way FICL has calculated Ms Es latest offer. I can see its offered to refund the 
£12.73 premium  that Ms E was charged in July 2002. Its also agreed to refund the interest added  to 
the account because of the PPI premium. And FICL has offered to pay Ms E compensatory interest 
calculated at 8% simple per year.  This is what Id expect FICL to do so I think  its calculated  the latest 
offer of £71.64 fairly  and in line with our guidelines.
Ive next thought  about  whether FICL should compensate Ms E for the way its handled her complaint.  
I think  it must have been  upsetting for Ms E to question the original offer and then find that it had been 
calculated wrongly and to then receive  a new offer that is substantially lower.  From  what  Ive seen 
Ref: DRN77101027FICL had all the information it needed to make an accurate offer the first time. Ive also looked at a 
letter dated August 2018 which FICL says it sent to Ms E setting  out the new offer.  And I find it 
surprising that FICL didnt  apologise to Ms E for its error in sending her the earlier,  incorrect offer. So I 
am intending to award Ms E an additional £150.00 to compensate her for the upset FICL caused her 
to experience due to its error.
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to:
Find that Financial Insurance Company Limiteds latest offer of £71.64 is fair.
Direct Financial Insurance Company Limited to update the 8% simple interest element  of the offer and 
make payment to Ms E if it hasnt already done so.
Direct Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms E an additional  £150 for the upset it caused  by 
not calculating the original  offer correctly.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7710102