K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the interest  rate Bluestone  Mortgages  Limited  has charged on 
their mortgage. Specifically, they complain that when the Bank  of England  base rate has 
increased, Bluestone  has raised the interest  rate on the mortgage.  However,  when the base 
rate has decreased, Bluestone hasnt reduced  the interest rate.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  an interest only mortgage  with Bluestone. They  took their mortgage out 
with a different  lender in 2006. The mortgage  was taken  on the lenders standard  variable 
rate (SVR), which was 6.24% at the time.  The mortgage offer states this rate was discounted 
by 1.2%  until October 2008. When Mr and Mrs Ws interest rate discount was removed, the 
SVR was 7.24%.  The mortgage has been  on the SVR since  then.
Since Mr and Mrs W have  been  paying the SVR without the discount, Bluestone  has varied 
the rate as follows:
December 2008   SVR reduced from 7.24% to 5.74%
January 2009   SVR reduced  from 5.74% to 5.24%
September 2018  SVR increased  from 5.24%  to 5.49%
Mr W complained  to Bluestone in March 2018 as he was unhappy that reductions in the 
Bank of England  base rate hadnt  been  passed on to the SVR.  Bluestone  sent a final 
response letter in April 2018 which explained that the interest rate had been  applied in line 
with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. In summary it said the setting  of the interest  
rate was a commercial  decision, and as Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was not on a tracker  rate, 
it was not obliged to reduce the interest  rate when the base  rate fell. Bluestone also 
explained it didnt  offer new interest  rate products to borrowers, but that Mr and Mrs W were  
free to move their mortgage to another lender without  cost if they wanted to.
In August  2018  Bluestone  wrote  to Mr and Mrs W to tell them the interest  rate on their 
mortgage was going up following the rise in the Bank of England  base rate. Mr W 
complained to Bluestone again. Bluestone issued a response in September 2018 explaining 
itd already addressed this complaint, and referred back  to the previous final response  it sent 
in April 2018.
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service. They  said they felt it was unfair that 
Bluestone could increase the SVR when the base  rate went up, but didnt reduce the SVR 
when it had fallen  in the past. As a result, they felt theyd  been paying too much interest on 
their mortgage over the years,  and are struggling  to make the monthly payments.
I understand that since the base rate fell again more recently this year, Bluestone has 
reduced the SVR applied  to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage. Mr and Mrs W have also told us 
theyre working with a debt charity to help with managing their financial commitments.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that he thought Bluestone  had acted fairly 
when applying the interest rate to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage. He explained that the business  
had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and as the rate was not set 
up as a tracker  rate,  Bluestone was not obliged to pass on any changes  in the base rate to 
the SVR that Mr and Mrs W have been  paying.
Ref: DRN73347032Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with this outcome. They didnt  think  it was fair theyve been paying 
nearly 6% interest on their mortgage for so long, and told us this has crippled them.  They 
said they are relying on state pension and a small private pension and are struggling as 
neither of them are in good health. Things have become worse for them more recently as a 
result of the pandemic,  as they have  both been shielding. 
Mr and Mrs W asked  for an ombudsman to look into their complaint,  so the complaints been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr and Mrs W originally took their mortgage out with a different  lender, the original 
terms and conditions that they agreed to have  remained the same. Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage offer clearly  sets out that the discount to the SVR would apply until October  2008,  
and after that date, the lenders SVR would apply for the remaining term of the mortgage.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage define  the SVR as our standard variable rate of 
interest which can be changed by us at any time before and after completion  under condition 
3 of section 3. If we enter into a transfer,  the standard variable rate will be set by or on behalf 
of the transferee.  The transferee can set the standard  variable rate independently  of any rate 
set by (previous  lender) or any other  transferee.
In Mr and Mrs Ws case, the transferee is Bluestone. Condition  3 of section  3 of the 
mortgage terms and conditions sets out that the standard  variable  rate can be varied for any 
of the reasons listed. One of the reasons listed is to reflect a change  which  has occurred, or 
which we reasonably expect to occur, in the Bank of England base rate, or interest  rates 
generally.
So, considering the terms and conditions  of the mortgage, Im satisfied these allow 
Bluestone to decide the rate it charges as its SVR, and that one of the reasons its allowed to 
change the rate is to reflect a change to the base rate. So Im satisfied that the increase 
Bluestone made to its SVR in 2018  which it says was as a result of a change in base rate 
was allowed for in the terms  and conditions. This was a common change  across the 
mortgage industry, and as a result Bluestones SVR remained in line with that charged by 
similar lenders at the time. Looking at the increase  Bluestone  made to the SVR in 2018, Im 
satisfied this was fair.
However, Mr and Mrs W have also complained that the reductions in base  rate havent been  
passed onto them in the interest rate theyve been paying, and feel theyve been overpaying 
on their mortgage for years as a result.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations here.  The base rate reduced significantly 
between March 2008 and March 2009  (by a total of 4.75%), and whilst Bluestone did pass 
some of these reductions on in the rate it was charging, it didnt  reduce  the SVR by the same 
amount as the base rate reduction, as the reduction  in Bluestones  SVR during the same 
period was 2.25%. This left Mr and Mrs W paying 5.24% on their mortgage from March  
2009, when the base  rate was at a record low of 0.5%. So they feel like theyve paid an 
unfairly high rate.
Ref: DRN73347033Theres nothing in the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  which  says when 
the SVR should be varied,  just that Bluestone  can decide the rate, and can vary it as long as 
its for one of the specific reasons set out. Theres nothing in the original paperwork either to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage would track the base rate, although I appreciate 
Bluestone has highlighted that incorrect letters were  sent to Mr and Mrs W more recently 
which said their mortgage tracked  the base rate, and have since clarified this is not the case. 
There were two periods  over the history  of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage where the base  rate 
has fallen, and Bluestone has chosen  not to reduce the SVR. The first of these was in 2009  
when the base rate fell by 1% but Bluestones SVR remained at 5.24%. Bluestone has told 
us that the reason it didnt  reduce the SVR at this time was because  the original lenders 
SVR was 5.74%.  So in light of that and the fact that the SVR remained in the middle of rates 
offered by comparative  lenders at the time which also hadnt reduced, they decided not to 
reduce the rate.
The base rate dropped again in 2016,  to 0.25%, and Bluestones  SVR remained at 5.24%. 
However the base  rate did rise again in 2017  and this change wasnt passed on by 
Bluestone  so the net impact of the base rate changes in 2016  and 2017 were levelled out.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel theyre  paying more interest than they should be, Im 
not persuaded this is as a result  of Bluestone acting unfairly. Im satisfied theyve set the rate 
in line with the terms and conditions, and have considered the wider  market when deciding 
what rate to charge. I dont think the reasons theyve given  for how theyve decided to vary, 
or not vary, the rate are unreasonable. Particularly given my knowledge  of what  was 
generally happening in this area of the mortgage  market at the time. And whilst Mr and 
Mrs W are paying  a higher rate than the interest rate products that may currently be 
available with mainstream lenders, Bluestones SVR is in line with comparable SVRs  in the 
market. 
I appreciate the terms that allow Bluestone to set and vary the interest  rate on the mortgage 
are broad  and allow a wide amount of discretion on Bluestones part to decide how to set 
the SVR. But as Bluestone has explained, Mr and Mrs W are free to move their mortgage to 
another lender without incurring any additional  costs with Bluestone. 
I know in practice Mr and Mrs W have  had difficulties with this, as theyre both now retired 
and are struggling financially. Theyve also told us theyre struggling  to meet  the monthly 
payments and have  been working with debt advice charities to help with their overall  
situation. Its unclear  what conversations have been  had with Bluestone  about  any 
concessions available  on the mortgage  given Mr and Mrs Ws situation. But if Mr and Mrs W 
are unable to afford the monthly payments,  Id encourage them  to speak  to Bluestone  about  
this to see if theres anything that could be arranged to help them.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come  as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Ref: DRN73347034Kathryn Billings 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7334703