K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Hanif Automotive Limited  mis-sold him a single premium payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a loan.
background
In 2005 Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement to buy a motor  vehicle. At the same  
time Hanif Automotive Limited  sold him a PPI policy to cover  his payments if he was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint  should be upheld because he didnt think there was 
enough evidence  to show  that Hanif Automotive Limited had given  Mr W the opportunity  
during the sales  to actively confirm that he wanted  to take PPI out or highlighted that the 
PPI was an optional product.
Hanif Automotive Limited has no records to defend the sale and offered an alternative 
redress to the typical  redress.  The consumer declined  the offer of alternative redress  and 
the case has passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Hanif Automotive Limited had to make clear  to Mr W that the PPI was optional  and make 
sure Mr W agreed  to take it. Sadly, due in part to the passing of time, Hanif  Automotive 
Limited has no records it has been able to provide that demonstrate that it did this. 
So I havent seen anything to show me that Mr W understood PPI was optional or that he 
agreed to take it. So it follows that I uphold his complaint.
what Hanif Automotive Limited should do to put things right
Mr W borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been  and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr W needs to get back the extra he has paid. 
So, Hanif Automotive Limited should:
    Work out and pay Mr W the difference between what he paid each month on the 
loan and what he wouldve paid each  month  without  PPI.
    Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr W paid each month  from when he paid 
it until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
    If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Hanif Automotive Limited 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount  it owes  him.
Ref: DRN78085002 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Hanif Automotive Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Hanif Automotive Limited must  give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Hanif  Automotive Limited 
and direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept  
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7808500