K820x#14complaint
Mr Q and Ms A complained because Lloyds Bank PLC refused  to refund a number of 
transactions which they disputed.
background
Ms A had an account with Lloyds and on 8 October  2018 her husband Mr Q was added to 
the account. 
On 9 October Lloyds  sent Mr Q a debit card and PIN. Theres a disagreement about what  
was said about  how long this would take to arrive. Lloydss version is that it said the card 
would arrive  within 3-5 days.  Mr Q and Ms As version is that Lloyds  said the card would 
arrive within 7-10 days.
On 1 November  2018, Mr Q and Ms A reported  the card missing. They said they hadnt 
received it, and there was a similar  address  in the city in which  they lived,  where  lots of their 
post ended  up. They disputed all the transactions which had happened on the new card,  
between 13 October and 27 October. These totalled thousands of pounds, and had taken 
place in this country  and also abroad.
Lloyds investigated,  but refused to refund Mr Q and Ms A for the disputed  transactions. 
Lloyds explained  that if it felt the customer couldnt  have done anything  to prevent the loss, it 
would refund the money. But if it felt the customer had left their account open  to fraud or 
theft, it wouldnt accept  liability.
Lloyds explained  that the pattern  of spending  on Mr Qs card wasnt  the normal  pattern for a 
thief. A thief would usually withdraw as much as possible,  as quickly  as they could.  This 
hadnt happened here. And the bank said that every  customer has a level of responsibility  to 
protect their account. It would have expected Mr Q and Ms A to have  notified  Lloyds earlier  
than they had done.
Mr Q and Ms A werent satisfied and complained to this service.  Mr Q told the investigator  
that he has health problems and for most of the time doesnt  get out of the house  because 
he is so ill. He said he hadnt reported the card missing earlier,  because he hadnt known. Mr 
Q said that his wife had misread  the balance; that he suffered from memory loss; and that 
Ms A had taken their children to a different country  from November to February  for health 
reasons.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Q and Ms As belief that the card must have gone to 
a similar  address. He found that there  was an address which had one extra  word on the 
street name, but it had a different postcode. Although Mr Q had said this happened a lot, 
there was no record on the banks file about this happening  before.
Mr Q had told this service  that he wasnt able to leave  the house  because of health  issues. 
While the investigator was considering the case,  he needed to phone  Mr Q. He tried on two 
occasions a fortnight apart. Ms A answered  the phone and told the investigator that Mr Q 
was abroad in a certain country.  Mr Q later told the investigator that hed been in a different 
country from the one Ms A had said. The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr Q couldnt  
leave the house. 
Ref: DRN78957702The investigator also looked at the transactions. He didnt consider the pattern of spending  
was that of a fraudster.  Taking all these matters into account, the investigator  didnt  uphold  
Mr Q and Ms As complaint.
Mr Q and Ms A werent satisfied. Mr Q told the investigator that hed misunderstood the 
complaint, and Mr Q was only complaining about  the foreign transactions, not the ones 
which had taken place  in the UK. The investigator  pointed out that Mr Q had previously  said 
he hadnt received  the card which was why he was disputing  all transactions  on the card. Mr 
Q also explained that he had health  issues, and repeated what hed previously said about  
problems with the address and post going astray.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulations
The regulations which apply to Mr Q and Ms As complaint are the Payment  Services  
Regulations 2017. These set out the rules when transactions are disputed.  Broadly 
speaking, customers are liable for transactions theyve authorised,  and the bank is liable for 
transactions which customers havent authorised. Customers also have a duty to take all 
reasonable steps to keep the card and security details safe.
Whether Mr Q received the new card and PIN
Ive looked first at the issue of the card and PIN, which Mr Q and Ms A told us never arrived.  
Mr Q said there had been problems before with post going to another  address. If that had 
been so, Id have expected Mr Q and Ms A to have  mentioned this to Lloyds,  both on any 
previous occasions,  and also when  they requested the new card and PIN. 
The other address  had an extra  word  in the street  name, and a different postcode. Ive 
looked at the record  of the address to which Lloyds sent the card, and PIN, which  were  sent 
out separately. Both went  to the correct address. While its possible that the post service  
might have delivered both to the wrong address, I think  thats  unlikely because  the postcode  
was very different, and postal services  rely on the postcode rather than the words of the 
street name. Its even more unlikely to have  happened with both the card and the PIN which 
were sent separately.
Ive also considered why Mr Q and Ms A didnt tell Lloyds  they hadnt  received the card and 
PIN, until 1 November. The banks records show the letters were sent out within  a few days 
of the 8 October request.  As Ive set out above, Mr Q has given us a number of different 
reasons why he didnt  report  it. And hes said that he was told it would take 7-10 days,  
whereas Lloyds said it told him it would take 3-5 days. I dont have a record of the phone 
call, but whichever is accurate, Id have expected Mr Q and Ms A to have contacted  Lloyds 
before they did. This is particularly true given that Mr Q spent some of October  abroad.  Id 
have expected him to chase Lloyds for the card before he went,  so he could take it with him.
I also note that, in response  to the investigators View, Mr Q said he wasnt  disputing the 
transactions in the UK, only those  abroad. This wasnt  what hed said before, either to Lloyds 
or to this service. But most importantly, this isnt compatible with never receiving the card 
and PIN.
Ref: DRN78957703So I find its more likely  than not that Mr Q did receive the new card and PIN.
Transactions
Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Mr Q authorised the 
transactions on the new card and PIN. Ive considered all the transactions,  not just those 
abroad, because  thats what Mr Q and Ms As original complaint  to us was about.
On 12 October 2018, £7,300 was withdrawn  from the account  using Ms As card,  which isnt 
disputed. One of the earliest of the disputed  transactions, on Mr Qs card, is a payment for 
flights. Whoever made the transaction didnt  check the balance  first. Anyone  whod obtained 
the card and PIN fraudulently  wouldnt  have  known the balance  and would have  had to 
check before  using it. 
Ive also looked  at the purposes of the transactions which are disputed. There are over 50 of 
them, and theyre  not typical  of the way a fraudster would use the card. Fraudsters who 
obtain cards  and PINs put through a lot of transactions  in a short timescale,  to maximise 
their gains in case the card is stopped.  Thats not the pattern on Mr Qs card. The 
transactions abroad are partly for living expenses and partly  for more expensive  items. One 
of the venues  was a medical park, which appears to be a treatment centre, which  again  isnt 
what a fraudster would be likely  to do.
After a while, the transactions abroad  end, and the next transactions are in the UK.
-One of the earliest is for a pharmacy attached to the practice  from which Mr Q has 
sent us letters about his medical condition, and where hes registered as a patient.
-Another one took place at a newsagents  near where Mr Q and Ms A lived.  The 
history of the account shows many other, undisputed, transactions,  at this shop.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its most  likely  that Mr Q did receive the card 
and PIN, and that he carried  out the transactions himself.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7895770