K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt  give her enough  compensation for the 
poor service she received  after she made  a claim  on her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss Hs car was damaged in an accident that she reported to AXA in July 2018.  She says 
she wasnt kept updated about the cars whereabouts and that there were delays with the 
repairs, which meant she didnt get the car back until October 2018. Miss H also says she 
didnt get promised calls back from AXA and had to chase it for progress reports. She says 
AXA wouldnt give her a larger courtesy car when she asked for one in August 2018. 
Miss H said she wasnt  happy with the £250 compensation AXA offered her for its poor 
service. And she thought  it should  compensate her for loss of earnings.
AXA told us that Miss H had complained about  delays,  not being  updated  and a lack of calls 
back from it. AXA said part of the reason  for the delay in repairs was that it had cancelled the 
instructions to the garage in error. It said there was also some confusion  between the 
repairer and Miss H. And the car had to be moved  to and from a specialist garage. AXA said 
it had apologised  to Miss H about  these  issues and thought £250 compensation was fair.
Our investigator thought the compensation  AXA proposed was reasonable. He noted that 
Miss H was only entitled to a standard courtesy car under the policy  and that it didnt cover 
loss of earnings. Miss H said regardless of the policy, AXA should have offered her a bigger  
vehicle due to the inconvenience it had caused  her. She said the courtesy car would have 
required a lower premium to insure than her own car, so shed lost out financially.  She also 
said the garage had removed  and not replaced the manufacturers badges on her car.
The investigator said Miss H was obliged to pay her premium. He didnt change his view on 
the other issues. As there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed to me for review.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
The policy says a standard  courtesy car will be provided unless a consumer has chosen  the 
courtesy car upgrade thats available for an extra premium. The upgrade  would have entitled 
Miss H to a hire car with the same number of seats  as her own car. But as Miss H didnt pay 
for an upgrade, I think AXA acted  reasonably  by ensuring she had a standard courtesy  car. I 
dont think the delay in repairing the car meant Miss H should have been given a larger  car. 
And AXAs compensation was partly to make  up for the delay.
It seems  that Miss H didnt  raise the issue of loss of earnings with AXA. She asked for a 
larger car, but the notes dont show that she told AXA why she wanted one. Miss H told us 
she used her own car to transport children home after school and was paid for that. So she 
believed she should have a similar-sized replacement car to carry on with that activity.  The 
investigator raised the issue with AXA, but it didnt  respond. 
I think Miss H was given the car she was entitled  to under the policy.  Under the policys  
general conditions,  Miss H isnt entitled to make a profit from carrying  passengers anyway. 
Ref: DRN70143602And AXA took into account that Miss H was without her own car for longer than expected  
through its offer of compensation.  So I dont  think  its reasonable to expect  AXA to 
compensate Miss H further for not offering her a larger  car. 
Miss H is required  to pay the policy premium for her car in return  for annual  cover from AXA,  
even if the car is being repaired for part of that period. Thats standard  industry practice.  I 
think AXA fulfilled its part of the agreement between it and Miss H by dealing  with the claim 
she made on the policy. That meant repairing  her car and giving her a courtesy car to keep  
her on the road whilst the repairs  were done.
It seems  that Miss H didnt  complain initially to AXA - or to us - about the cars badges being 
removed by the garage, but should  she wish she can raise that with AXA as a new issue. 
Taking everything into account,  I think AXA accepted its shortcomings  in this case and made  
a reasonable attempt  to make up for the poor service Miss H received. So I dont think her 
complaint should  be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7014360