K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the poor service he received from Nationwide Building Society  after 
he was the victim of fraud. He wants substantial compensation for the trouble and upset this 
has caused him.
background
The details of what happened here are well-known to both Mr D and Nationwide.  And, as 
there is no dispute Mr D was the victim of fraud, through  somebody impersonating him, 
I hope both parties  will accept the following  as a summary of the issues  and problems:
A fraudster got enough information  about  Mr D to apply for a current account  and online 
banking with Nationwide  in his name (Mr D was an existing customer  of Nationwide);
The fraudster  then carried out some transactions and applied for a loan, which was paid 
into the current  account;
When Mr D got information about the loan he contacted Nationwide  straight away;
Mr D experienced considerable inconvenience  as a result of getting automated calls and 
correspondence about the loan;
Nationwide  accepts  it didnt deal with Mr Ds concerns as quickly  as it should have done, 
including failing to call him back  so it paid him £500 in compensation for the problems 
hed had;
Mr D wasnt happy with Nationwides response  he didnt think it properly recognised 
the number of errors, which  he listed as 10, or the stress that hed suffered;
Following a review, Nationwide paid Mr D a further £100 to compensate  him for 
problems hed had resulting from having  to go to a local branch to try and resolve the 
issues where  all the agreed actions  werent  followed through;  and
Nationwide  contacted a fraud prevention agency  to say Mr D had been the victim  of 
impersonation and credit reference agencies  to make  sure he wasnt  adversely affected 
by references  to the loan.
Mr D remained  unhappy with Nationwides response  so he contacted us. He was concerned 
about the way in which Nationwides  systems  allowed somebody to carry out all the activity  
in his name before the problems came to light.
One of our investigators  looked into things for Mr D. But, while  she agreed Nationwide  hadnt  
handled things  as well as it could have done,  she felt the total of £600  was enough to 
compensate for the problems that had occurred.
And she explained that it isnt our role to say whether a financial business systems and 
processes are robust.  That is a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Ref: DRN70027872Mr D didnt agree. He thought the amount of compensation should be at least £1,000  if not 
much higher.  Mr D suggested £5,000 wouldnt be inappropriate.
As Mr D didnt  agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been  passed to me to 
review and issue a final decision  on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to both us and Nationwide. And thats not surprising.  It must  be very upsetting to find 
you have been  the victim of fraud  by somebody impersonating you and taking out a loan in 
your name. So Mr D is bound to be concerned.
And Im aware this matter has dragged on for some time. It hasnt helped  that Mr D got a 
statement from Nationwide many months  later showing the various  transactions  on the 
fraudulent loan  albeit  with a final zero balance. While that seems to be the normal  annual  
statement that is produced by a lender, it hasnt helped  matters  from Mr Ds point of view.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr D that I agree with the adjudicators view. I also think that £600 
is an appropriate amount of compensation for Nationwide  to pay for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr Ds suffered. Indeed, theres  not a great deal I can add to what  the 
investigators already  said to Mr D. I think she set out the position clearly and thoroughly.
The amount  is towards the lower end of the range for the category that this service would 
describe as substantial. I think thats a fair description of the difficulties Mr Ds had. But 
I dont think they warrant  a higher figure.
It seems  Mr D first became aware  of the problems towards the end of December 2017. 
Nationwide took actions to sort things out. By its own admission Nationwide  didnt do these  
quickly enough  or perhaps help Mr D quite as much as it should have done. It seems the 
various accounts werent closed until February 2018.
But that is still only some  six weeks after the issues came to light.  Im not seeking to 
downplay the difficulties or frustrations Mr D had  far from it. But it does take time to sort out 
problems like this. Mr D had to make  several  calls to Nationwide. And because his accounts 
were restricted he had to visit a local branch. But, on balance, and having considered at 
some length  what Mr D has said,  I think  what  Nationwide  has paid him makes up for that.
Im aware Mr D is concerned about the processes  Nationwide has in place to prevent this 
sort of thing happening.  As the investigator has said, looking into the general systems  a 
financial business has isnt something  our service  does. That falls to the FCA. And here,  the 
limited evidence available seems to point to the problem arising  from somebody  intercepting  
Mr Ds post. And that  in itself  isnt something within  Nationwides control.
Its unclear whether Mr Ds credit  record has been  amended to reflect fully whats happened 
here. But I have seen evidence that Nationwide has made the various  agencies  aware  of 
what has happened. While there  doesnt  seem to be any suggestion his credit record  has 
been adversely  affected, this may be something Mr D might  want  to follow  up on with them.
Ref: DRN70027873Nationwide has reported the impersonation to a fraud prevention agency. This should help 
prevent any recurrence of the problems  Mr D has had. I hope this is of some comfort to him.
I realise Mr D will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  help 
Mr D any further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7002787