K821x#15complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This case is about three loans Mr B took out with Mr Lender between February and 
September 2015. The first loan was repayable in three monthly instalments. The other two 
loans were repayable  in six monthly instalments. Mr B repaid all three loans early.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
third loan shouldnt  have been given.  So he said Mr Lender should refund all interest  and 
charges that Mr B paid on the third loan, with interest on the refund. And he said it should 
remove any negative information  about the third loan from Mr Bs credit file.
After the adjudicator issued his view, Mr Lender pointed  out that Mr B hadnt paid any 
interest on the third loan.  And it hadnt recorded  any negative information  about that loan on 
Mr Bs credit  file. So it didnt think the case should be upheld.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Mr Lender on 23 April 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Mr Lender  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point  where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN76935142I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
I acknowledged that the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an 
indication a consumer  could  sustainably make their repayments.  But it didnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing  further.  
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Bs complaint.
As our adjudicator had explained, Mr Lender  asked  Mr B for details  of his regular 
monthly income and expenditure  before making the loans. I thought  that in the case  of 
the first two loans,  this was proportionate.  I was satisfied that the figures that Mr B gave 
would have suggested that hed be able to afford the repayments  on those loans 
reasonably comfortably. Six months  passed  between Mr B repaying the first loan and 
applying for the second one. And there  was nothing  to suggest from the information 
available to Mr Lender at the time that Mr B was having problems managing his money, 
or that the borrowing  might be unsustainable for him. So I didnt think  that Mr Lender 
acted irresponsibly in making the first two loans.
But I thought  that the fact that Mr B applied for the third loan less than two weeks after 
he repaid loan 2 ought  to have prompted  Mr Lender to wonder whether he was 
borrowing sustainably. And I thought  it should have looked into Mr Bs financial 
circumstances in more  detail.
However, I didnt need to consider  what proportionate checks for loan 3 would have 
revealed to Mr Lender. As Mr Lender  had pointed out, Mr B only repaid a total of £750 
for loan 3. Thats the amount of capital that he borrowed. So he didnt end up paying any 
interest or fees on the loan.  In order to uphold Mr Bs complaint, Id need to find that 
Mr Lender had been irresponsible to make  the loan, and that Mr B had lost out as a 
result. 
I explained that where I consider  that a loan shouldnt have been given, Id normally  take 
the view that its reasonable to expect the borrower to repay  the capital borrowed, but 
that any interest and charges should be refunded.  Id also generally say, as the 
adjudicator did, that any negative  information about the loan in question  should be 
removed from the borrowers  credit  file. 
I agreed with the adjudicator that Mr Lender  shouldnt have made the third loan.  But 
since Mr B didnt  pay any interest or charges on that loan, and since Mr Lender  didnt  
record any negative information  about it, Mr B hasnt lost out as a result  of the loan being 
made. It followed  that based  on what Id seen so far, the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
Ref: DRN76935143further submissions
Both Mr B and Mr Lender have confirmed that theyve  received my provisional decision, and 
have told us that they have nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Having done so, I cant  see any reason to depart  from the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7693514