K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc (trading  as Tesco Bank) unfairly recorded 
a late payment marker on her credit file.
background
Ms D cleared the balance on her Tesco Bank credit card and rang the bank to close  the 
account. She was told there would be some residual  interest to pay, which  would show on 
her final statement. The amount she would have to pay would be available after the last 
statement date.
But Ms D didnt receive the final statement.  She contacted Tesco  Bank by phone  on the day 
before the interest payment was due, but the bank  couldnt locate her account. Tesco  Bank 
says it tried to phone Ms D the following day but couldnt get through. As Ms D didnt make 
the payment on time, Tesco Bank  recorded a late payment marker on her credit file.
Tesco Bank later accepted it hadnt  turned off e-billing when Ms D closed her account, which  
meant she didnt receive her final statement. Tesco  Bank paid £50 for this mistake.  But it 
said the statement  was reminder of transactions  rather  than a reminder to make payment, so 
it wasnt willing to amend Ms Ds credit  file.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She was satisfied Ms D had 
tried to pay what she owed before the due date,  and that it wasnt her fault that Tesco  Bank 
couldnt locate  her account.  The adjudicator didnt think  it was fair for Tesco Bank  to record  
the late marker on Ms Ds account, and said it should make arrangements  for it to be 
removed.
Tesco Bank didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions so the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank considers  Ms D shouldve contacted it sooner to find out what  she owed on her 
account. It also says she didnt update her contact details, so it wasnt possible for Tesco 
Bank to get in touch with her on the day her payment was due.
Ive noted everything  Tesco Bank has said, and Ive also listened to the call between  Ms D 
and the bank when she called to close her account  on 2 August 2018. Tesco Bank told Ms D 
she would  owe some residual interest, which would be calculated to the date of her final 
statement  which was due on 16 August.  She was also told she would no longer have 
online access to her account, but that she would receive a final statement by post.
The adviser said Ms D could phone to find out the balance  after 16 August, but Im not 
persuaded he meant this was a requirement  for Ms D to clear the account. It seems  he was 
letting her know how she could check the balance if she wanted this information  before she 
received her statement.
Ref: DRN76396882But Tesco Bank failed  to turn off e-billing for Ms Ds account, which meant  she didnt receive  
her final statement. So she wouldnt have known when her payment was due. I dont accept 
Tesco Banks argument that statements  are a reminder of transactions rather than a 
reminder to pay. I say this because all of their statements clearly set out the date on which 
minimum payments should  reach the account.
When Ms D didnt receive her statement she phoned Tesco  Bank on 3 September 2018, and 
Ive listened to that call too. Tesco Bank  couldnt locate Ms Ds account when she called. 
She told it shed changed  phone numbers,  but Tesco  Bank didnt offer to take details of her 
new number. 
Ms D was concerned at the cost of her call to Tesco Bank, because shed had to wait a long 
time before being connected.  Tesco Bank said it would call Ms D back  once it had made 
further enquiries, and during that part of the conversation it checked that the number Ms D 
was calling from was the correct number  to use. 
But I think its unlikely that Tesco Bank  made a note of that number, and that when it tried to 
call Ms D the following  day it used  her old phone number. It seems  Ms Ds new number 
(which shed confirmed  during  the call on 3 September 2018)  wasnt updated on Tesco 
Banks systems until 10 September 2018.
I think Tesco Banks failure to send  Ms D her final statement  meant she couldnt easily  pay 
what she owed on time.  And when  she phoned  to make the payment before the due date, 
she was prevented from doing so because Tesco Bank couldnt locate her account.  I dont 
consider that was Ms Ds fault either.  
Tesco Bank said it would call Ms D the following day, but I think  its unlikely it used the 
correct number for her. Im not persuaded that was Ms Ds fault because  she thought Tesco  
Bank had the right number for her at that stage.
So overall, from what Ive seen and heard, I consider Tesco Banks  mistakes  meant  Ms D 
couldnt pay what she owed on time.  So I think its fair and reasonable for Tesco  Bank to 
remove the late payment  marker from Ms Ds credit  file, in addition to the £50 it has paid her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Tesco Personal  Finance plc (trading as 
Tesco Bank)  to remove the late payment  marker  it recorded for Ms D from her credit file. 
This is in addition to the £50 it has paid to Ms D.
  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639688