K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  him a packaged bank 
account, called First  Additions and then treated him unfairly by switching him to a Tech 
Pack account  without explaining why or offering him more  suitable alternatives.  He thinks  
that Barclays should refund him all the fees he paid for these accounts, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt think  that 
Barclays had mis-sold him the First Additions  account or switched him to the Tech Pack  
unfairly. The adjudicator  didnt  recommend that Barclays should uphold  Mr Ds complaint.  
Mr D didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website, and Ive used this approach  to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr Ds complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr D and 
Barclays have told us or sent us about the case and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr D has banked with Barclays for quite a long time. For several years he had a fee -free 
account, and then in 2005 he changed to the First Additions account, for which he paid a fee 
and received several potential benefits  in return.  In 2015, Barclays  withdrew  the First 
Additions account from him and switched him to the Tech Pack account, for which he 
continued to pay a fee and receive  potential benefits.
As Mr Ds main  complaint  is about  the way Barclays sold him the First Additions account,  I 
will explain  my findings for this first, and then cover the way it switched him to the Tech  Pack 
account.
Did Barclays mis-sell the First Additions account  to Mr D? 
Over the years that Mr D held this account, from time-to-time Barclays changed both 
the fees and the range  of potential benefits available.  But throughout the time in 
question, one of the benefits was that the account offered cheaper overdrafts than 
came with Barclays fee-free account.  Below a certain amount, Barclays  didnt charge 
First Additions  customers any interest  for an overdraft, and over that amount it charged 
a lower interest rate than it did for customers with fee-free accounts.  
Barclays has sent us some of its records of how Mr D has used his accounts and 
these show that he went overdrawn quite frequently and sometimes substantially, both 
when he had the fee-free account and after Barclays sold him the First Additions 
account. 
Mr D has explained that when he took the First Additions account,  he discussed it with 
Barclays when he went into one of its branches. Hes told us that Barclays  said that 
the First Additions account was the only account  available if he wanted  to maintain an 
Ref: DRN72771872overdraft. The crux of this part of Mr Ds complaint  is that he doesnt think Barclays  
told him about other options, but made  him feel that the First Additions account  was 
the only one he could have. Hes said that with hindsight  there  must  have been  other  
choices. 
 
Barclays has accepted  that it recommended the First Additions  account to Mr D, but 
has denied that it didnt give him the choice to keep the fee-free account.
After so many years  have  passed, I cant tell exactly what  Barclays  said to Mr D. But it 
seems likely to me that Barclays  would  have talked to him about his potential  need for 
an overdraft. At that time, First Additions  was the cheapest packaged account Barclays  
offered, and given  the way Mr D had been  using his overdraft, I think  it was reasonable 
for Barclays to recommend it to him.
Barclays certainly shouldnt have denied Mr D the choice to keep  his fee-free account; 
but Mr D had held it for several years and such  accounts were widely available in the 
United Kingdom  at that time. So I think its likely that Mr D knew about this option and 
that Barclays probably allowed him the choice to keep  it, although  I fully accept it may 
have encouraged him to switch to First Additions when it made its recommendation. 
Amongst other things, the First Additions account  included benefits such  as travel 
insurance and car breakdown cover. Mr D has told us that he never  used any of the 
benefits aside  from the overdraft.  Hes said that he categorically  found nothing else 
about the account useful  in any way over nearly  15 years. I fully accept Mr Ds 
comments about this. But this doesnt  mean that Barclays was wrong  to recommend 
the account to him in 2005. At that time,  packaged bank accounts were  not tailored for 
individual needs; they came as bundles and could still be appropriate for customers 
who didnt want or need  all of the benefits all of the time. 
So I dont  think Barclays mis-sold the First Additions account to Mr D in 2005. 
Did Barclays switch Mr D to the Tech Pack account unfairly? 
Banks are allowed to change the range of accounts  they provide and sometimes they 
change those on offer for their own commercial  reasons. But when they do so, they 
must tell customers affected  by the changes in advance. 
Around 2015, Barclays decided to withdraw  its First Additions accounts,  along with 
several other  packaged accounts, and switch  customers to Tech  Pack accounts. 
Barclays has sent us copies of letters it wrote to Mr D about  changing  him to a Tech 
Pack account. These letters seem to me to have  told Mr D what was going to happen, 
and to have explained to him how to get in touch with Barclays  if he wasnt happy  with 
the changes it planned. So I think that Barclays did enough  to let Mr D know what  it 
intended to do and gave him a choice about it.
I dont think Barclays switched Mr D to a Tech Pack  account unfairly.
.
So in summary,  I accept that Mr D may not have used most of the benefits  which  came with 
his accounts,  but I dont  think Barclay  mis-sold him the First Additions account or treated him 
unfairly when it changed  his account from a First Additions to a Tech Pack account. 
Ref: DRN72771873Mr D has also told us that he wants to reduce the amount he owes  on his overdraft and that 
he has some  money outstanding on his credit card. I havent covered these issues in this 
decision and I cant advise Mr D how to do this. However, he may wish to discuss  this with 
Barclays or with other financial businesses  or with organisations which  offer information or 
advice on personal  financial  matters. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im not upholding  Mr Ds complaint against  Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7277187