K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited  acted irresponsibly  by lending him money  in 
August 2015.
background
In August  2015,  Mr H applied for a loan.  Everyday Lending lent Mr H £2,500 to be repaid  
over two years at £187.72 a month. But in October 2016 Mr H stopped  making the 
contractual payments and shortly  after this entered a debt management plan.
Mr H thinks Everyday Lending shouldnt  have lent him the money.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought  it should be upheld. She didnt think  
Everyday Lending  had carried out sufficient  checks before deciding  to lend Mr H the money. 
And she thought  that if Everyday Lending had done,  it would have realised the loan 
repayments werent sustainable. So she recommended  that the business refund the interest 
and charges Mr H had paid on this loan,  so he only has to repay the capital loan amount of 
£2,500. She also said Everyday  Lending should  add interest (the rate is 8% simple  per year) 
to compensate him for any periods hes been  out of pocket. The adjudicator also 
recommended Everyday Lending  remove any negative information about the loan from Mr 
Hs credit  file.
Everyday Lending  didnt agree. The complaint  has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
Ive decided this complaint  should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
As Everyday  Lending was entering  a regulated credit agreement,  it needed to assess  Mr Hs 
creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the agreement to 
adversely impact Mr Hs financial situation,  and the ability for Mr H to make repayments as 
they fell due over the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to Everyday Lending at the time said it needed 
to take reasonable steps to assess Mr Hs ability to meet the repayments  under the 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  Mr H incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. This included Mr H being able to make the 
payments on time while meeting his other reasonable commitments  and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
Im not satisfied the Everyday Loans  carried out a sufficient assessment of Mr Hs financial 
position before it lent Mr H the money. 
Ref: DRN73011102Everyday Lending  has sent us copies  of the file notes  completed during the application  
process. The notes  from the time record that, based  on the bank statements Everyday 
Lending had seen, the best balance was a £1,114.29 and the worst balance  was £170.00 
overdrawn, and that based on what theyd seen the account was being  run well with no 
issues. 
Looking at these  statements,  though,  its clear  that Mr H had additional bank accounts. This 
is also reflected on the credit report Everyday Lending used when deciding  to lend. This 
showed that at the time Everyday Loans  arranged this loan, Mr H had another  account which 
was overdrawn by £2,500  which was also the overdraft limit.
The statements  Everyday Loans did consider show a large number of transfers between 
Mr Hs various  accounts. Im also mindful  that although the statements show a number of 
loan payments going out, only one of the loans is seen coming in. For this reason, I think 
Everyday Lending  would  have been  on notice that the statements theyd seen  didnt 
necessarily reflect Mr Hs full financial circumstances.
So Ive gone  on to consider what would have happened had Everyday Lending  carried out 
further checks. Ive seen  the statements for the overdrawn  account.  I see that in the month 
prior to this loan, Mr H reaches the £2,500  overdraft  limit on a number of occasions  and 
during a week at the end of July and beginning of August he drew  down four separate  
payday loans,  amounting  to £450.  Looking at the statements, he appears  to have taken 
each of these  loans to pay for basic everyday spending without exceeding his overdraft  
limits. 
Taking all of this together, I think the information  Ive seen gives a strong  impression that 
Mr H was struggling to fund even his basic  day to day expenses  despite  a regular salary, 
and limited expenses,  he still had a large  overdraft  and he regularly came close to exceeding 
his limit. While  I acknowledge  that by repaying  some of his outstanding debts Mr H would 
reduce his monthly outgoings, these savings  appear to have been less than Mr H was 
borrowing each month just to keep within his overdraft limit. And so I think  there was a real 
prospect that Mr H would  need to borrow again in order  to pay for his new commitments.
For these reasons, I dont  think  further lending to Mr H was sustainable. I think  that if 
Everyday Lending  had made  further checks it would have realised this. And I think Mr H has 
lost out because of what  Everyday Lending did wrong.
putting things right
Everyday Lending  shouldnt have given Mr H the loan. I understand that there may be a 
balance outstanding on it. So:
a)Everyday Lending should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the outstanding 
balance on the loan, and treat any repayments made  by Mr H as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal.
If this results  in Mr H having made overpayments then Everyday Lending should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is 
settled.
Ref: DRN73011103If there is an outstanding balance,  then Everyday Lending should  agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr H.
b)Everyday Lending should remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Hs credit 
file in relation  to the loan once  the loan is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Lending to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if Mr H asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Everyday Lending  Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7301110