K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr M says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  But looking at the evidence  
available from the sale, I think Capital One made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this 
now. I say this because  Mr Ms application form included both a yes and no option for the 
PPI - and the yes box has been ticked to agree to the policy.  Mr M signed  the application 
form, so I think  this reflected what he wanted  at the time. And as this was a postal 
application, he did that in the comfort of his own home with, it seems, little involvement  from 
Capital One other than the provision of the agreement itself,  so he had the time and space to 
make that decision freely.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if the policy 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M says he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer at the time, so the policy 
wasnt needed. However, the PPI couldve paid 10% of Mr Ms outstanding monthly  balance  
for up to 12 months. So it couldve cleared his credit  card balance if claimed for long enough. 
The PPI wouldve also paid out in addition to any other  means he had, so his sick pay 
wouldve been free to use for other expenses.  He also didnt have any means to keep  up his 
repayments in the event  he was made  redundant. So I still think the policy  wouldve been 
useful for him.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN76652422To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7665242