K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM)  told her 
its consent for her to let out her property had expired,  and didnt treat her fairly when she had 
difficulty repaying her mortgage.
background
Miss W has had a mortgage with BM for many years. Unfortunately  in recent years shes  
been unwell  and had to move out of the property to live with her parents. Also as a result of 
her illness,  her ability to work  was affected and the mortgage fell into arrears.
BM granted Miss W consent to let out her property for one year.  Around  the time the consent  
expired, Miss Ws father sadly  passed away. BM granted a further two years, which took it 
up to the maximum three years it generally allows.
In early 2018, before the expiry of the extended consent, BM wrote  to Miss W telling her that 
she was letting out the property in breach of her terms  and conditions  and it would have to 
take action. Miss W says she gave her tenant  notice and tried to move back  into the 
property. Around  the same  time she was discussing with BM whether the arrears could be 
capitalised.
BM accepted  that it shouldnt  have  written to her telling  her she was in breach before the 
consent expired.  And it accepted that it hadnt  told her the outcome of the application to 
capitalise arrears. It offered compensation totalling  £600 for various communication  failures. 
But it didnt think it had acted unfairly  in not agreeing to extend  the consent  or capitalise the 
arrears.
Miss W complained. She didnt think shed been  fairly treated.  She said the arrears on her 
credit file were impacting  her ability to expand her self-employed  business. She said she felt 
forced to evict her tenant and had gone into more arrears as a result. She felt BMs actions 
and lack of sympathy  had had a real impact  on her. Our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding the complaint,  so Miss W asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  the difficulties Miss W has had with her health,  and I hope shell  
accept my condolences  on the loss of her father. Im sure the last few years have been very 
difficult for her.
As a result, Miss W has struggled  to repay  her mortgage. When that happens, I would 
expect BM to treat her fairly   trying to understand her circumstances, and agreeing with her 
a way to get the mortgage back on track.
Ive looked at what happened in this case and I think BM did that. It allowed her to let out her 
property so she could  return to live with her parents  even though  it doesnt  generally allow  
this where a mortgage is in arrears. And it granted a two year consent from 2016 to 2018,  on 
top of a previous year, even though its policy is generally to only allow a year at a time.
Ref: DRN76587872BM has also tied to understand Miss Ws finances  and her income and expenditure, and has 
agreed payment  arrangements with her.
I dont think its reasonable to expect consent to let to continue indefinitely.  This is a 
residential mortgage, designed  for a borrower  whos living in the property. Mortgages for 
tenanted properties are buy to let mortgages, which are priced  differently  and have different 
terms and conditions. They also have different  risks for the lender. A consent  to let on a 
residential mortgage is a temporary measure to allow  a borrower  time to make other 
arrangements or decide a way forward.
In this case, BM has already allowed Miss W three years  to let her property out, to give her 
time to recover and resume work and making  payments  from her income  rather than rent. I 
think thats fair. If Miss W isnt able to return to the property, shell  need  to decide an 
alternative way forward   which might be taking out a buy to let mortgage, or considering  
selling the property. 
BM considered capitalising the arrears,  but was willing to do so. I dont think that was unfair. 
When arrears  are capitalised, theyre  added  to mortgage balance,  and so the monthly  
payment increases as a result. If the higher  payment  isnt affordable,  the mortgage will fall 
back into arrears  and the arrears will build up more quickly  than before. In this case, the 
consent to let was expiring and it wasnt clear that Miss W would be able to afford  the 
increased monthly payments once the consent to let expired and she was no longer able to 
let the property out. So there was a real risk that capitalisation would make  things worse, not 
better, and that wouldnt be in Miss Ws best interests.
I do think that BM should have communicated better with Miss W, and its failures  to do so 
meant that she was caused real distress. It told her she was renting the property without 
agreement before the consent expired; it didnt tell her about the outcome of the 
capitalisation application, and it delayed dealing with her complaint. I think £600 is fair 
compensation for the upset all this caused.
But I dont think BM should be required  to extend  the consent to let, or to capitalise the 
arrears. And I dont think BM is the root cause of Miss Ws difficulties, or is the reason her 
credit file has been impaired. Rather, its because that  through  no fault of her own  
Miss W has been unable  to keep up with her mortgage payments for several  years. I think 
BM has acted fairly  and showed  forbearance  by allowing her to rent the property out for 
several years and allowing payment arrangements. I dont think capitalisation would be in 
her best interests  until the mortgage  is affordable on a sustainable basis, and I dont think 
BM can be fairly expected  to allow the property to be rented out indefinitely. Miss W will 
need to discuss  her circumstances with BM, and it will need  to treat her fairly, as long as she 
continues to have  difficulties in paying her mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN76587873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7658787