K820x#14complaint
Miss Ks complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough  to help her when she was 
the victim of a scam.
background
On 24 December 2018, Miss K was contacted online by who she thought was a friend of 
hers, who said they needed to borrow some money. Unfortunately, her friends online 
account had been hacked and she was actually speaking to a scammer.  The scammer 
provided an account number and sort code and Miss K sent £300  via telephone banking.  
Later that day, Miss Ks friend contacted her to say her online account had been hacked  and 
it was at that point  Miss K realised shed been  scammed. She contacted  HSBC  at around 
7pm that evening to report  the scam.  HSBC  contacted the beneficiary bank the next working  
day, 27 December  2018, to ask for a return of the funds. Unfortunately,  the beneficiary  bank 
responded to say none of the funds remained. 
HSBC did offer Miss K £50 in recognition  of the amount  of phone calls shed had to make to 
chase updates on her complaint. But they didnt think theyd made an error by processing 
the payment and that theyd acted  within a reasonable timeframe to try to recover Miss Ks 
funds. Miss K disagreed and so she referred her complaint  to our service. 
Our adjudicator investigated and felt HSBC  acted reasonably when it followed Miss Ks 
instruction to send  the £300.  And that it tried to recover Miss Ks funds as he would have 
expected, but none  remained. Miss K didnt agree with this and felt HSBC should  have  
cross-reference the name on the beneficiary account, as it wouldnt have matched the name  
she gave when making the payment.
As an informal agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
Ref: DRN78301662believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Miss K when she made  the payment of £300  or whether it should have done more  than it 
did. Having carefully  looked over everything, I think it did act fairly and reasonably  and I 
wont be asking it to refund Miss K. Id like to explain  why in more detail. 
Both Miss K and HSBC agree that Miss K authorised the payment of £300 herself.  So, 
HSBC had an obligation to follow her instruction and transfer the funds. But as explained 
above, there are some circumstances in which HSBC should reasonable have had a closer  
look at the circumstances surrounding  the transfer, for example, if the payment was 
particularly unusual or out of character for Miss K to make. 
To determine this, Ive looked at Miss Ks statements for the months  leading  up to the 
transfer in question. Having looked at these,  I can see Miss K has made  other bill payments 
and transfers, often for similar or higher amounts.  So I dont think  the payment  type or value 
were particularly out of character for her to make. Because of this, I think it was reasonable 
that HSBC didnt treat the payment as suspicious  and that they acted on her request without 
any additional questions  or checks.  Ive also listened to the phone call in which  Miss K 
requested for the payment to be sent. Having done  so, I dont think member of staff at HSBC  
missed an opportunity to reveal the scam,  as I dont  think Miss Ks request warranted  further  
questions about  the payment. So I dont think it needs to refund Miss K the £300 she lost.
Ref: DRN78301663Miss K has raised the point that the name she gave as the account holder would not have 
matched the name on the beneficiary account. She feels  HSBC  should have                  
cross-referenced this and that if they had, the scam  would have been revealed. 
Unfortunately, in December 2018 when the scam occurred, it wasnt a requirement for UK 
banks to cross-reference names in this way. Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions 
for Miss Ks account to see if HSBC  made  this clear. I can see that it says when a payment  
is made from her account, they will only use the account number and sort code to verify the 
account, even  if they also ask for other information such as the name  of the account  holder. 
So, I dont think that HSBC made an error  by not cross-referencing the name  given by    
Miss K to the one on the beneficiary account,  and I think it made it clear to Miss K what 
information they would be using to make the transfer. 
Once Miss K realised she had been  scammed, she acted quickly to notify HSBC. This was 
on 24 December, Christmas eve, at around  7pm. HSBC says they would have closed their 
fraud department at 8pm that evening. Although  they had around  an hour to contact the 
beneficiary bank  before  closing, they didnt  do so until the next working  day of 27 December. 
I dont consider this to be a reasonable time frame and I think it would have been  reasonable 
to expect HSBC to contact the beneficiary bank  before it closed on 24 December 2018. 
Ive spoken to the beneficiary bank and they confirmed that all of the funds were  removed  
from the beneficiary bank  by 3pm on Christmas day at the latest, but due to the timings  on 
the statements  Ive seen, the actual  withdrawals could have been  made  sooner. The 
beneficiary bank  have said that they can cant be sure precisely what hours the fraud  
department were open on Christmas  day in that year and that due to the festive period, they 
likely would have had a reduced staff level. With all this in mind,  it seems unlikely that the 
funds would have  been returned in time had HSBC sent the request  for a return of funds on 
24 December, as I would have expected it to. So while I think  HSBC could have acted 
sooner, I dont think it would have  made  a difference in this case.  
I want to acknowledge  that Miss K has been  the victim of a particularly  convincing  scam, and 
Im sorry  shes had to go through this experience. In this case, based on her normal  account 
activity, I think  it was reasonable for HSBC to have processed the payment of £300  without 
any additional checks or questions. And I dont  think it made  an error when it didnt cross-
reference the name Miss K gave and the name  on the beneficiary account.  And while I think  
HSBC unnecessarily delayed contacting the beneficiary bank to request a return  of the 
funds, I dont think this means  Miss K lost out on having her funds  returned  in time. So I 
dont think HSBC needs to refund Miss K with the £300 she lost. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7830166