K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  unfairly declined two claims on 
her home insurance policy. 
background
Ms N contacted Lloyds  about an escape  of water at her property in December 2017. While 
the claim was being dealt  with Ms N lodged a second claim after a handbag  was stolen in 
2018. 
Ms N said that while Lloyds was looking at the claims it queried a listing  on a rental website 
for Ms Ns property. Ms N thought a family  member  had advertised rooms  for sublet without 
her knowledge.  But Lloyds said the listing had been  made by Ms N and declined  her claims 
and cancelled her home  insurance policy for misrepresentation.  Ms N said Lloyds  also 
reported her details to a fraud prevention database  and her car insurance was cancelled.  
Shed like Lloyds  to remove her name from the database with a letter of apology.  And she 
wants compensation for the impact  of Lloyds decision and for her trouble  and upset. Ms N 
would also like Lloyds to settle both claims in full.
Lloyds said itd initially placed the claim for theft on hold because Ms N hadnt been able to 
provide proof for most of the items  reported  stolen. While reviewing the claims Lloyds 
noticed that rooms at the insured property were registered for sublet on a rental website. 
Lloyds said Ms Ns home insurance policy was for family and domestic use. It wasnt 
designed for letting  or sub-letting  in such a manner.
Lloyds said Ms N hadnt been able to provide acceptable information about the stolen items 
or the circumstances  surrounding the occupancy of the property. So after reviewing 
everything it had decided to use the fraud  clause  within Ms Ns policy to cancel the policy  
due to Ms Ns deliberate  misrepresentation  and non-disclosure. The cancellation would be 
backdated to when the policy was taken out. And itd declined  the claim  for theft and 
withdrew the settlement offer for the escape of water claim. 
Ms N wasnt  happy with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service  and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He could see Lloyds had cancelled Ms Ns home  insurance  policy  
after shed logged  two unsuccessful claims. But he couldnt say Lloyds  had acted unfairly. 
Our investigator felt Lloyds hadnt sufficient evidence to persuade  it that the house hadnt 
been listed online by Ms N. When shed applied for home insurance shed confirmed no part 
of the house would be used for business purposes. And he didnt think  Lloyds had made an 
error when  it considered  this to be a misrepresentation when Ms N had taken out the policy.  
So he wouldnt uphold her complaint.
Ms N didnt agree. She said she hadnt made the online listing or rental and said other 
members of the family had been responsible. And Ms N said she hadnt been aware thered 
been any lodgers  in her house. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73192632I realise this has had a big impact  on Ms N. She says Lloyds has cancelled  her home 
insurance policy and wont settle claims amounting to around £4,000. And as a result of 
Lloyds placing a marker on a fraud prevention database Ms N says her car insurance has 
also been withdrawn. So Ive looked carefully at whats happened. And whether Lloyds has 
made any mistakes it needs to put right.
Although the home insurance  policy does  allow lodgers to stay at the property it doesnt 
allow for subletting  through the online business.  Ms N has mentioned other  people  have 
stayed at the property  in the past.  And thats within the terms of the policy. However it 
doesnt provide  cover  for lettings  on the online marketplace where Lloyds saw the listing.
The policy document asks the holder to get in touch if theyre sharing their home with 
someone other than family to make  sure the home  stays protected.  Lloyds has explained  it 
needs to be informed if a business  such as letting or sub-letting is being run from a domestic 
property. There is an increased risk of theft, accidental damage  and liability  to visitors.  
Ms N has now provided a note from her father  and step-mother saying they were 
responsible for the subletting and hadnt realised it would cause problems for Ms N. Shes  
also provided some additional emails  to show other  family members had used her email  
address in the past. But Lloyds say Ms N hasnt provided the specific information it asked for 
in relation to the identity of the other family  members. So it still believes Ms N 
misrepresented the situation when she applied for the home insurance policy.  
I realise how upsetting  this has been for Ms N. She feels Lloyds is using the scenario to 
reject her claims  after she called to complain. And she cant be held responsible for the 
actions of other family members staying at her house. But based on what Ive seen  I cant  
say Lloyds acted  unfairly  in cancelling Ms Ns home insurance policy.  It believes Ms N 
misrepresented the situation when she said no part of the home  was being used for 
business purposes. And it wouldnt have offered to insure  the property if it was aware how it 
was being used. As a result it wont consider any claims  made after the policy was taken out.
Lloyds feels the information provided  by Ms N about the letting is contradictory and without 
sufficient supporting evidence. Ms N was also unable to prove or substantiate her loss when 
the handbag was stolen.  She wasnt able to show Lloyds where shed purchased  the stolen 
items or for how much. 
I know Ms N will be disappointed with this outcome. But based  on everything Ive seen I 
cant say Lloyds has acted unfairly in refusing to pay any claim arising  after it feels the 
insurance policy was fraudulently  taken out. Ms N was the policy holder and responsible  for 
ensuring the propertys  use remained within the terms  of the policy. The subletting was 
outside of the terms of Ms Ns home insurance  policy and increased the risk to both Ms N 
and Lloyds. 
And I cant say Lloyds has acted unreasonably in reporting the situation  to the fraud  
prevention database. It has an obligation to do so. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN73192633my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7319263