K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited will not now offer her the same 
retirement options that were available to her before she reached age 75.
background
Mrs M had a pension with Aviva. Aviva wrote  to her in December 2015 to say that the 
retirement date of her plan was 1 June 2016  Mrs Ms 75th birthday  and enclosed  
information about the options available to her. And the letter said:
What if I dont make a choice by my 75th birthday?
You cant continue this plan with Aviva  beyond the age of 75. If you dont want  to take the 
benefits on or before your 75th birthday, youll have to move your money into another plan or 
product, either with Aviva or another provider.
Because of this its really important you speak to us before your 75th birthday.
Aviva wrote to Mrs M again  in March and April 2016, and also sent copies of the 
correspondence to her independent  financial adviser  (IFA).  . But as it didnt hear from 
Mrs M it became concerned that it didnt  have her correct address, so it attempted to trace  
her and tried to contact  her at a different address.
Mrs M called  Aviva  on 27 May and 31 May. But Aviva says that the call on 27 May couldnt 
proceed because  Mrs M wasnt able to answer  security questions, while  the call on 31 May 
was cut off.
Mrs Ms IFA contacted Aviva on 2 June. He said he wanted to check whether Mrs M still had 
the chance to take tax free cash or a lump sum as there had been an issue  with her address 
and she hadnt  received  the quotations.  As a result, Aviva confirmed to the IFA that it would 
allow a short period of grace in which a decision could be reached. The IFA emailed Mrs M 
on 10 June 2016  to let her know  of this period of grace. And a further  retirement pack was 
sent to the IFA in June 2016.
Mrs M wrote to Aviva  in August 2016 to say the IFA would  no longer be acting for her. And 
she appointed  a new IFA in around October 2016. 
The new IFA requested  further retirement quotations. These quotations  provided  the option  
to transfer her pension.  And Mrs M completed the necessary forms to transfer. But when the 
adviser chased the transfer in April 2017 Aviva said that this option was no longer available  
to Mrs M as she had passed her 75th birthday and the period of grace had expired.
Mrs M and her adviser  complained to Aviva. But Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in 
summary:
It originally  had the correct address for Mrs M, and had sent pre-age 75 style 
retirement documents to this address, notifying Mrs M of restrictions following her 
75th birthday;
Concerned that Mrs M had not been  in touch, it had carried out an address trace  in 
April 2016 as it was trying to verify the new address obtained from its trace.  This 
Ref: DRN70184792was quickly corrected after it received a letter of authority from her previous IFA at 
the end of May 2016;
It continued to offer pre-age 75 retirement options up to October 2016 but no 
applications were  received  until March 2017.  It regretted it could no longer offer pre-
age 75 options;
Its records showed that correspondence following the transfer  request from Mrs Ms 
new IFA made it seem as though a transfer  would  be agreed. However, this was not 
something it could do now as funds had been  crystallised and the grace period had 
ended;
The benefits had crystallised and it could  now only offer an annuity.  It apologised  for 
its mistake in making it seem  as though a transfer would be offered. It agreed  to 
backdate Mrs Ms retirement benefits to her 75th birthday upon completion of an 
annuity application. And it sent her a cheque for £150 for her inconvenience.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Aviva had treated Mrs M unfairly.  She said that this service 
wasnt able to direct Aviva  to transfer  her pension after age 75 as that option  was no longer  
available to her. Although Aviva said there was a mix up with Mrs Ms address it had sent 
five letters  to the correct addresses  for Mrs M and her IFA. But she did think that Aviva  had 
made an error in telling Mrs M that she could transfer her pension  after age 75 and after the 
grace period had ended.  In recognition  of this error, Aviva  had paid Mrs M £150 for the 
trouble and upset  caused as well as offering to backdate her annuity  to her 75th birthday. 
She felt this offer was fair and reasonable and along  the lines of what  this service would 
recommend had the offer not been  made. 
Mrs M doesnt  agree with our adjudicators conclusions.  She says in particular:
Her issue stems from Aviva  incorrectly changing  her address, which  led to her being 
unable to provide  it with her decision regarding her pension during the allotted time 
period; and
Aviva  failed to tell her about the extension  it had granted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Aviva has acted unfairly. I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, so Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
Aviva wrote to Mrs M, at her correct address, in December 2015, and March and April 2016.  
And each  of those  letters  made it clear that Mrs M needed to make a choice before her 75th 
birthday on 1 June  2016. The letters in March 2016 and April 2016  were also copied  to her 
IFA.
Mrs M doesnt  dispute receiving the letters. But she says that she was unable  make her 
choice when she contacted Aviva at the end of May as she couldnt pass  security.  She says 
that the reason for this was that Aviva had wrongly changed her address. 
Mrs M says that Aviva should not have assumed that her address had changed just because 
she didnt respond  to the correspondence it had sent. But, although I agree with Mrs M that 
she was under no requirement  to respond  to the letters, Im not persuaded that Aviva  made  
an error by attempting to verify that it had the correct address for her.
Ref: DRN70184793Ive looked at the contact notes for the calls Mrs M made to Aviva, and asked Aviva  to 
explain why Mrs M was unable to pass security during those calls. Aviva  says that, during 
the first telephone  call, Mrs M wasnt able to answer its security questions  and it could hear a 
gentleman providing  prompts. For that reason, it couldnt be satisfied that the person  on the 
phone was the policy holder. The contact notes for the second  call indicate that the call was 
cut off before security was completed.
Aviva has told me that, if Mrs M had been able to answer its security questions, it would 
have been able to reactivate her address there and then. As she wasnt  able to do this, the 
first opportunity it had to reactive her address  was when it received a letter from Mrs M on 
2 June 2016. And it says that it doesnt  consider that the temporary deactivation of her 
address prevented or delayed  Mrs M from accessing her retirement benefits.
I appreciate that Mrs Ms recollection of the calls differ from Avivas account. But, having 
carefully considered  all the evidence, I agree with Aviva that the issue  around  Mrs Ms 
address cannot  be said to have prevented her from accessing her benefits. I say this as, 
following a call from her IFA, Aviva  agreed  to grant her further time in which to make her 
decision. 
I note that Mrs M says that Aviva didnt inform  her of the grace period. But I have seen a 
copy of an email to Mrs M from her first IFA dated 10 June 2016  This makes it clear that 
Aviva was only allowing  a short period of grace in which to make  a decision, and suggests 
arranging a meeting as soon as possible as Aviva will only allow a short period of time.
Im satisfied from this that Mrs M was made  aware of the grace period, and that the grace 
period was limited  in time.
Aviva says that while Mrs M continued to gather information about her retirement options it 
thought it fair to continue to honour the grace period. But it says that it couldnt  continue to 
extend the grace period  indefinitely so by the time Mrs M submitted the completed transfer 
forms the grace period had expired. And it says that it doesnt  consider this unreasonable,  as 
the grace period was only ever intended  to last for a short  period. 
Having considered Avivas position, I agreed  that it has not acted unreasonably. Aviva  says 
it didnt receive the completed transfer  forms until March 2017, which was nearly 10 months  
from the date it had granted the short  extension. And, although I appreciate that some  of 
the delay resulted from the fact that Mrs M appointed a new IFA, I think  that there was an 
onus on her to act more  quickly  than she did. 
Aviva has accepted that it made  an error when it told Mrs M and her IFA that she could 
transfer her pension after age 75, and after the grace period had ended. It has apologised 
for this, and sent her a cheque  for £150.  It has also agreed to backdate her annuity  to her 
75th birthday. I appreciate that this isnt the resolution that Mrs M was seeking but, in the 
circumstances, I find it fair and reasonable. So I dont require Aviva to do anything more.
Ref: DRN70184794my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7018479