K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when  it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1995.  Mr F completed an 
application form for a Barclaycard in a Barclays branch and the policy was added  to his card 
at the same  time.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed. 
Mr F mainly says that he had adequate sick pay through work  and so he feels he was more 
than sufficiently covered  without the PPI policy. He said that if the costs versus benefits  and 
the policys optional  nature had been made clear, he wouldve  declined the policy . 
Hes asked for a review so this complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  
I think Barclays made Mr F aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it. The 
application form he completed had Yes and No PPI options. So Mr F wouldve known it 
was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. 
And I can see the Yes  box is marked on the form Mr F signed.  So, I think  its likely he 
decided at the time that PPI would  be useful and he chose to add it to his Barclaycard.  
Barclays says it advised Mr F to take out PPI and, looking at the likely policy  terms that 
wouldve applied, I think it was suitable  for him. 
Mr F was eligible  for the policy.  He mentioned  that he wouldve had full sick pay for 6 months 
then half pay for the next 6 months  from his employer if he was off work sick. But its likely 
that the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for longer - up 
to 12 months per claim  in the event of accident  or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As 
Mr F mightve also had some additional  costs if he was too unwell to go back to work  or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time.  
The policy wouldve also protected Mr Fs credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think  PPI offered Mr F worthwhile  benefits  in his 
particular circumstances.   
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Fs situation.  
Ref: DRN78736472Its possible some of the information  Barclays  gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr F chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now.  The policy seems to 
have been affordable for him  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr F wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.  So I dont find hes lost out as a result  of anything Barclays did wrong  
and theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7873647