K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that CIS General Insurance Limited  wrongly declined  to pay the claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
background
Mr Hs car was taken from his driveway in November 2018.  CIS arranged for external  
investigators (firm S) to interview Mr H. Firm S noted that Mr H had said initially  hed left 
the cars  spare  key hidden in the car. It said hed later changed the details he gave and said 
there was only one key for the car. Firm S concluded that Mr H had breached  the policy  term 
excluding cover if a key was left in a car. CIS agreed  with its view but offered Mr H £50 for a 
delay in dealing  with his complaint.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Hs complaint. He thought  CIS had acted reasonably. 
Mr H queried how the thief got into the car in the first place. He said the key left in the car 
didnt work.  He also said firm Ss investigator  had treated  him like a criminal.
As there was no agreement the complaint was passed to me for review.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr H would have found some of the questions  asked by firm S intrusive. 
Being required  to provide personal details  can be uncomfortable,  especially if a consumer 
feels their integrity is in question. But its common practice for insurers to use external firms 
in this way. They have to ensure they get a full account of events for the insurer  in order for 
a claim to be fully assessed. So although I can see why Mr H wasnt happy with the process, 
I dont think hes shown  that firm S acted  unreasonably. And I dont think CIS acted  
unreasonably in using firm S. 
Mr H told us about the serious health  and other difficulties and his partner were facing at the 
time of the theft. He said it wasnt surprising that he couldnt recall exactly  what  he said to 
CIS or to the police  when  he first reported the incident. I think that makes sense, but I also 
think its reasonable to rely on the records made by CIS and the police at the time. They  
show that Mr H said a spare car key was left in the car, hidden, which it seems was true. 
Mr H later said he hadnt told the police that the hidden key was working. And he said hed 
corrected details about the number  of keys for the car as hed made  a mistake initially.  He 
thought it was significant that firm S said hed used correction fluid when  in fact hed used 
correction tape  but I dont  think that error changes the basic facts. 
Although it seems that Mr H changed his mind at one point about the number of keys he had 
for the car, Ive taken  into account all the evidence on this point. That includes all the 
comments made by Mr H. Having done  so, I think it was reasonable for CIS to decide  that 
there were two car keys and that one of them was left in the car. 
Mr H says the thief could  have  accessed  the car using a code duplicator or by other 
technical means. I think thats possible  - but then its also possible that the car was unlocked.  
Mr H is certain  thats not the case,  but CIS cant be sure what  happened, other  than that a 
key for the car was left inside it. Mr H says the key would have been slow-charging  and may 
Ref: DRN79048002not have worked  anyway.  But when  the police found  the car, the spare key was missing. I 
think that suggests the thief found it, so it could have been  used in the theft.  Either  way, 
simply by leaving the key in the car whilst it was unattended, Mr H breached the policy  term 
that says cover for theft or damage  is excluded in those circumstances. 
Mr H says he wasnt aware  of the policy exclusion,  as he wasnt  able to download the 
documents. If there  was a problem with that, Id have expected Mr H to contact CIS for help. 
Its essential for a policy holder to check their documents are in order  and to view the policy 
terms - especially  the important details set out in the policy  summary or key facts document.  
CIS highlighted the keys  in car exclusion within the key facts  summary. So I think  it did all it 
could to ensure  Mr H was aware of it. 
Its clear from the details Mr H has given us that his personal circumstances were very 
stressful at the time of the theft.  So what happened can only have made his situation much  
worse, and I do sympathise with him. But I also have to consider whether CIS acted fairly in 
deciding not to pay the claim. As I think it acted reasonably - and in line with the policys 
terms - I cant uphold  Mr Hs complaint. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7904800