K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy and it protected  their monthly  mortgage repayments. Only Mr C was covered 
under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C say, through their representative, that they didnt  want  or need PPI and there  
were some failings in the way the policy was sold to them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  it clear that PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs C didnt need to 
take it out to get the mortgage. Ive seen the paperwork that Mr and Mrs C signed.  This 
made it clear  that PPI was an optional and separate product. Mr and Mrs C said on their 
mortgage application they wanted PPI. They also signed a separate  direct debit mandate for 
PPI. Their mortgage offer listed the cost of PPI and said this was an optional insurance and 
that they didnt  have  to take it out. So, I find that PPI was likely discussed and added 
because Mr and Mrs C said they wanted it. I can understand why they may not remember 
that now.
NatWest advised  Mr and Mrs C to take out the PPI, so it had to consider whether the policy 
was suitable for them.  It also had to give them information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so that they could decide if they wanted to buy PPI. Having looked  at their 
circumstances, it looks to me that the PPI was suitable for them.  As this was a joint 
mortgage, Ive taken into account  Mrs Cs circumstances too, even  though only Mr C was 
covered under the policy. 
The policy looked  suitable  because:
the policy was taken out in Mr Cs name only, but Mrs C wasnt working at the time, 
so she wasnt eligible for cover.
Mr C was eligible to take out the policy.
Mr C told us he was entitled  to at least six months full sick pay from his employer. 
The PPI wouldve paid out, on top of Mr Cs work benefits, and possibly for longer. It 
wouldve covered  Mr and Mrs Cs monthly mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months 
per claim if Mr C was off work sick or if hed lost his job. So, I think PPI couldve still 
Ref: DRN77420392provided them with valuable protection, particularly as Mrs C wasnt  working. I think 
protecting their home wouldve likely been important to them.
they said they also had around  three  months worth of savings. PPI wouldve allowed 
them to use these  for other household  expenses if Mr C wasnt  working. I cant  see 
that Mr and Mrs Cs other resources meant they obviously didnt need the policy.
I cant see that Mr C was affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  in the 
policy that might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim.  So, I 
dont think they needed better information about these things.
NatWest couldve probably  explained  more about the policy  cost and benefits. The cost of 
the PPI (£66.56 per month)  was listed on their mortgage offer. This provided them with a 
monthly benefit of £1300 per month. Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy,  when they 
didnt have to. Also, they filled in a payment  instruction to their bank  for it  so they knew  
thered be a cost for PPI. I havent seen anything to suggest it wasnt affordable  for Mr and 
Mrs C at the time. Mr and Mrs C couldve cancelled the PPI without  losing out financially if 
their circumstances changed or they didnt want to keep  paying for it. So, I dont  think being 
given clearer information wouldve affected their decision  to buy the policy. I dont think they 
have lost out because of anything NatWest may have  done wrong.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN7742039