K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that during the initial inspection to validate his boiler cover,  the engineer 
that visited broke the filling  loop causing  it to leak.  The part isnt covered under the policy  
and Mr S is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great  Lakes) wont replace the part 
broken by their engineer.
background
Mr S took out an insurance policy through his energy  supplier to protect  his boiler  in case it 
went wrong. The cover included an initial service to make sure the boiler  was in a good  state  
of repair  for the cover  to be valid.
In August  2018,  a contracted engineer visited Mr Ss home to complete  the initial service.
On inspection, while topping up the pressure, there was a leak from the filling  loop when the 
valve was opened.  The engineer commented on what hed found to the insurer,  but Mr S 
says the leak was caused by the engineer and that it wasnt present before.
Mr S complained to Great Lakes  about  this, and about the way the engineer  conducted the 
inspection. But the insurer didnt agree their engineer was at fault. So Mr S contacted our 
service for help.
Our investigator didnt  agree that Great Lakes were responsible  for the leak from the filling  
loop. He found there was no evidence to say the leak wasnt already present before the 
engineers visit. Mr S disagreed with the investigator s findings  as he didnt  think  the 
investigator had taken account  of the correct  version  of events and had just sided with what 
the insurer had said. He also mentioned that the investigator didnt comment  on the distress 
the behaviour  of the engineer caused  him when completing the service.  So the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 February  2019 to explain why I didnt think Mr S 
complaint should  be upheld.  This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  thats  available.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions say that the initial  service includes:
A visual inspection  of the gas central  heating system for leaks  and corrosion and checks  
to make sure they are operating correctly and safely;
A flue test to make sure there  are no unsafe emissions;
A gas pressure check to ensure the boiler has the correct  gas pressure.
The evidence Ive seen  says that the engineer completed all the checks  that were required,  
and this is confirmed  in the boiler service report given to Mr S after the service  was 
completed.
Ref: DRN73771562The report  itself doesnt show the problem with the filling loop as it was advisory and not 
mandatory so the policy still went live. Even  with this problem the boiler  was still in good 
enough order for the insurer to validate  the policy. If the loop isnt replaced it could affect  the 
policy further down  the line if Mr S needed to make  a claim.
I take Mr S point that it wouldve  been  helpful  if the engineer made him aware of the issue  
with the boiler  while  he was there. However,  an engineer typically  reports his findings back 
to the insurer  and the insurer will then decide  on the validity of the insurance cover.
The engineer advised the insurer  that when the filling loop was filled to adjust the water  
pressure back to the manufacturers  guidelines,  the leak became evident. There  was a leak 
from the filling loop when the valve was opened,  but not when it was closed. 
I can understand why Mr S believes the engineer caused the leak. But on balance, Im not 
persuaded the engineer  did. I believe its more  likely  the engineer identified an underlying  
issue with the boiler  when  carrying  out his initial service.
Ive considered the professionalism and conduct  of the engineer and Ive taken on-board  
everything Mr S says happened  during  the service inspection. But as I wasnt  present, I cant  
be sure what happened.  And Im not persuaded the conduct of the engineer made any 
material difference to the problem with the filling loop.
The terms and conditions  say there  needs to be a visual inspection of the gas and central 
heating system. I appreciate Mr S disappointment in the way the engineer completed some 
of the checks.  But the report shows that all checks were completed.  So I cant  say that the 
engineer didnt complete the service  checks as required.
I know the outcome  of this complaint isnt what Mr S was hoping  for. But Im not able to 
uphold his complaint and say Great Lakes should replace the filling  loop because  Im not 
persuaded their engineer was responsible for the leak.
Neither Great Lakes  nor Mr S had any further  information for me to consider or comments to 
make and they both indicated  they accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party had anything to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. So Im not upholding  Mr S complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN73771563my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7377156