K820x#14complaint
Mr B complaint is about his Contracts for Differences  (CFD) Options trading account with 
Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500). He highlights his Oil based trading  positions and says Plus500 
manipulated its pricing for these positions, especially around a few seconds shortly  before 
the end of trading sessions. He says this unfairly caused margin  call closures  of his 
positions. He is also unhappy with Plus500s  closure  of his account after his complaint.
background
Mr B lists 12 positions  held on different dates between 29 January and 18 February  2019   
which he says were  affected by the alleged price manipulation. He says the manipulation 
always took the form of a sharp movement in price  against  his position  which  would last 
one to two seconds, would  affect  equity in his account and trigger a margin  call closure of 
the position(s),  before the price is then corrected and returned  to the correct level.  He also 
considers that Plus500s closure of his account was reprisal  for his complaint. Plus500  
disputes the complaint. 
In correspondence  with Mr B around the time of his complaint, Plus500 initially placed partial 
restrictions on the account until a third party  payment service matter  was clarified. Further 
correspondence shows that the matter  was resolved and the partial  restrictions were lifted. 
Plus500 says the account was shortly thereafter  closed upon  Mr Bs request and it has 
shared two emails  from him (dated 19 February  2019)  showing his instructions to close  the 
account with immediate effect.
With regards to the allegation that it manipulated its prices, Plus500 mainly says:
Mr B accepted its terms and conditions  (for his execution  only account) and that 
included his acceptance of its Order Execution Policy (OEP). The OEP confirmed 
that his CFD Options  trades would be based on Plus500s prices. Its prices  are 
legitimate and they reflect  the relevant underlying  market.
Its pricing is explained in the OEP. Prices are derived from a feed of rates received 
from independent data providers, and the data providers obtain their data directly  
from relevant exchanges, including the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)   for 
Oil based CFD Options trades its data providers source their prices  from the CME. 
The price feeds  are verified for accuracy  before  being presented on its platform and 
their spreads are slightly adjusted,  automatically, to reflect Plus500s spread  whilst 
remaining consistent with the price feeds.  
[Plus500 provided screenshot evidence, relevant to Mr Bs Oil based trades, of its 
price feeds and platform prices as examples of how both are correlated.]
Margin call closures were/are provided  for, within the agreed terms for the account, 
where margin requirements are breached in an account. This is what happened  to 
the closed positions  Mr B has mentioned  and it has provided evidence  of an example 
of one of the closed  positions, where his account equity dropped  to £1,134.91 (below 
the margin requirement of £1,175.27) and a margin call was applied.
A distinction between  Options trading  and CFD Options trading (as it 
administered/administers such  trading)  must  be noted, whereby the latter is traded 
on the basis of the changes  in the bid/ask prices  up to the point of expiry  (and with 
expiry set two business days  before market expiry of the underlying  Option); whereas 
the former involves  trading of the underlying Options  themselves.
Ref: DRN79181112One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for reasons broadly  similar to the points made by Plus500. As part of her view,  she noted  
that Plus500s evidence established that its prices  were  fairly based on the independent 
price feeds it received  but, in contrast, Mr B had been unable  to meet her invitations for 
evidence of the price  manipulation he alleges.  Mr B disagreed with this outcome and the 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Available evidence  does not support the notion  that Plus500 closed Mr Bs account as a 
form of retaliation for his complaint.  The summary given above, of the partial restriction 
events and the account closure thereafter,  is illustrated within  direct  evidence of the email  
correspondence between  both parties.  There are two emails from Mr B to Plus500 on 19 
February 2019 expressly giving instruction to close his account immediately. The second 
email states that he will not be changing his mind about the instruction. The instruction  was 
given on the basis  of what he described  as a loss of trust in Plus500.  
I have considered account  activity evidence with regards to the 12 positions  specified by    
Mr B. It is noteworthy that they do not all appear  to have  been closed by margin calls  
seven were closed  by margin calls, three were closed because  they expired,  the reason for 
closing one is described as MarketClosed and one was closed by a trailing stop call. This 
evidence  in terms of the closing times  and prices  does not present manipulation by 
Plus500. In addition  and as stated above,  Plus500 has provided  evidence to support its 
assertion that its platforms  prices  were consistent  with the independent price feeds it 
received. 
As the investigator  said, Mr B does not appear  to have  presented  evidence  to support the 
manipulation (over one or two seconds shortly before  the end of the trading sessions for his 
positions) that he has described. Plus500s  OEP  explains  the sourcing  of price feeds from 
independent data providers  who provide the feeds to Plus500  through its parent company. 
Other than any automatic spread adjustment that is applied (within the remit of the price 
feeds), there  does  not appear to scope  based on what is described in the OEP   for 
Plus500 to manipulate the prices provided  by independent sources.  I accept that Mr B would 
argue that the reality in his case was different. If evidence of this was available  I would give 
such an argument due consideration, but he has been unable  to provide such  evidence.
Overall, on balance and for the above  reasons, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 8 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7918111