K821x#15complaint
Mr I says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr I from February 2010 
onwards. Mr Is last loan was provided  in November 2010. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Is complaint and thought  the loans from loan three  
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been  able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr I could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
Ref: DRN72469812Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr I, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr I was unlikely to have  been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan three. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr I was into his sixth month of owing Quick Quid money.  In my view, 
Mr Is loan history  up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his inability 
to settle his loans over the life of the credit  agreement   hed incurred late fees on 
loan two and was borrowing substantially more on the day he eventually settled loan 
two. So Mr Is third loan was for substantially  more than his repayment  history 
suggested he was having difficulty repaying.    
Mr I continued to be provided with loan four on the same day he repaid loan three. 
So Quick Quid ought to have realised it was more  likely  than not Mr I was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous loans left in his 
finances and that Mr Is indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.  
I think that Mr I lost out because Quick  Quid continued to provide borrowing  from loan two 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Is indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr I owed  Quick Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Is complaint and Quick Quid should  put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr I paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan four included  interest  and charges that Mr I 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. Either way Quick  
Quid needs to ensure  that Mr I paid, or pays,  no more in total than the amount he 
was lent. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Is complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr I compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN72469813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7246981