K820x#14complaint
Ms H has a motor insurance  policy with esure  Insurance Limited. She complains that it didnt 
pay the full cost of repairing damage  to her car and that it provided poor service in general.
background
Ms Hs car was damaged by another car whilst parked and unattended. The other driver left 
his details and took full responsibility for the accident. esure  didnt think the cars steering 
was affected by the accident, so it offered Ms H a cash payment for the rest of the damage.  
Ms H didnt think that was reasonable. She thought esures advisors were rude to her. She 
also thought correspondence from esures recovery team and its solicitors was alarming and 
caused her undue stress.
One of our investigators  considered Ms Hs complaint. She thought  esure should have asked 
the dealership  garage that looked  at the damage to Ms Hs car to carry out further tests to 
see what led to the steering  problem. She said esure should pay Ms H £150 for not doing  so.
 
Based on the calls shed listened to, the investigator thought esures  advisors were polite. 
Although we werent given one particular call recording, the investigator didnt think  the 
words reported by Ms H as having  been  said by the advisor were unreasonable. And she 
didnt think it was unreasonable  for a call from an engineer on his mobile phone not to have 
been recorded. The investigator  didnt  think there  was anything wrong with the 
correspondence sent to Ms H by esures  recovery team  and solicitors.  But she said Ms H 
could contact the Legal Ombudsman service about  the solicitors  actions.
Initially Ms H accepted the investigators view. Later on she said she thought esure  had 
questioned her integrity in saying the accident  hadnt caused the steering fault. She said the 
onus was on esure to show  that was the case, as the car was drivable  until after the 
accident. As there  was then no agreement, the complaint  was passed to me for review.  
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
The garage esure sent the car to initially queried  the faulty steering being accident-related, 
so esure  arranged for a dealership garage to look at it. The dealership  garage said it had 
carried out diagnostic  checks to find the fault.  It found that the power steering module wasnt 
communicating with the engine control  unit. But it said the checks  it had done didnt lead it to 
believe that the fault had been caused  by the accident. It said it would  have to carry out 
further checks to pinpoint the exact  cause of the fault.
esure relied  on the dealerships view and didnt  order any further checks to be carried out. I 
understand why Ms H thinks  that was wrong,  given the way shes  interpreted the wording of 
the engineers  report. But I think if the dealership engineer had thought it possible that the 
steering fault was caused by the accident, his view would have been expressed  differently. 
In such circumstances,  as far as Im aware dealership engineers  normally  say they havent 
been able to determine whether or not the damage is accident related, so further checks 
need to be done. Had that been said, Id have  expected esure to agree to it. But that isnt 
what the engineer  said.  esure had two engineers views stating that they didnt think the 
steering problem was accident related. So I think  it was reasonable for esure not to agree to 
further diagnostic  tests. In my view, esure  acted reasonably by offering Ms H £1,694.69  cash 
Ref: DRN78869612in lieu of repairs (minus the policy excess, but taking off a VAT reduction).  It also offered to 
review its decision subject  to her getting another engineers view.
Ms H says the car had no steering problems until after the accident.  She says the chance  
that the steering coincidentally  failed at that exact point is too unlikely to be possible.  But I 
think if a fault develops, the relevant part can fail at any time. It seems  the failure of the 
power steering  is a known fault on this type of car. And I cant ignore what the view of the 
dealerships engineer was after carrying out diagnostic work. Theres  no reason for an 
independent engineer to try to avoid  costs for an insurer.  And although the other insurer  
would be paying,  esure still had a duty to ensure  that any costs run up were  fair. 
Ms H thought esure questioned her integrity  by not agreeing with her that the steering fault 
was accident related.  That would  have been  upsetting  but I dont think  its what esure did. 
It didnt suggest  that Ms H knew about  a pre-existing fault and tried to pass  it off as accident  
damage. I think esures references to unrelated damage were fair enough  in the 
circumstances here,  but were taken the wrong way.
In the calls Ive listened  to, Ms H was very polite  and so were esures advisors. I dont think 
it helped that they didnt  know  for sure what was said to Ms H by the engineer. But as 
engineers often make calls whilst theyre out of the office, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for the call not to have been  recorded.  
The engineer may have  expressed himself badly,  or Ms H may have misunderstood some of 
the points he made.  Either  way, its clear from other calls that Ms H was confused  by what 
he said and was very worried about  her liability for car hire charges. Fortunately, a manager 
Ms H spoke to later the same day gave her clear information about the hire situation, which I 
think should have  reassured her. 
Ms H wasnt  happy with a call she had with the customer relations manager who handled her 
complaint. Unfortunately,  we dont have a copy of that call. I dont think a comment Ms H 
says he made about insurance not covering everything was unreasonable. In one of the calls 
Ive listened to, Ms H said as she had full cover, she couldnt understand why esure wasnt  
going to pay for all the damage.  It may be that the manager was trying  to deal with a similar 
comment from her and his words were said as part of the explanation. Ms H says the 
manager also said hed end the call as she was talking over him. Unfortunately, as I havent 
heard the call, I cant say whether that was reasonable or not in those  circumstances. 
Ive considered the correspondence Ms H got from esures recovery  team,  and I can see 
why she found  it confusing and even alarming.  I think the information  provided was standard 
in a situation like hers. But I understand why she described the language as insurance 
speak. Ms H thought  she was being  told shed be taken to court   as though shed  done  
something wrong  and possibly that a reference  to non-payment applied to her.
I think the letter could  have been clearer  and a call to Ms H would probably have helped  - 
but we arent  able to instruct esure  about  its business processes. Ms H also got confusing 
correspondence from the solicitors esure instructed when it seemed the other drivers insurer 
wasnt co-operating. But thats an issue she can raise with the legal ombudsman service.
Ref: DRN78869613Ms H had a cash in lieu of repairs sum from esure, but she says she sold the damaged  car 
for £550 rather than checking to see what the repair  cost would be for the steering  problem.  
She said she hadnt intended to sell the car prior to the accident  and couldnt really afford the 
cost of a more expensive car she bought as a replacement. 
Ms H had the option of getting  another engineers view of the cause of the steering damage. 
Had she done so, esure  may have reviewed its decision. esure  provided  the money to have 
the damage it thought was accident-related repaired. It may have  been  possible to have the 
steering fault repaired inexpensively, depending on the cause of it. Ms H chose not to try that 
option, as she didnt think the car would be safe.  So esure wasnt  involved in the decision.
I can see from some of Ms Hs emails and esures  notes that some promised calls werent 
returned or were  returned at the wrong times. Given how worried  and confused Ms H was, 
that can only have  added  to her unhappiness with the whole situation. But taking everything 
into account, although I understand Ms Hs concerns,  I cant uphold her complaint. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. esure didnt respond.  Ms H said 
esures advisors had questioned her integrity  from the start. She said my view was formed 
without having  heard the call between her and the engineer and the call with the customer 
services manager. She said the latter call in particular  had enraged her. She thought the 
advisor should have been  able to handle her talking over him, as it was part of his job. And 
Ms H said it wasnt  right to reject her claim about  the steering based on the known fault.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure wasnt able to provide the call with the engineer, as it wasnt  recorded. It would have 
been useful to listen to the call with the customer services manager,  but as it wasnt 
available I was unable  to do so. I cant say whether the manager acted reasonably during 
the call with Ms H or not. But on occasion  it may be necessary to consider  ending a call. I 
havent seen or heard  anything from esure where Ms Hs integrity was questioned. It didnt 
agree with her about the steering fault,  but that was based on engineering evidence   not on 
doubting her word,  or relying  on a known fault. I understand why Ms H is unhappy. But as I 
dont think shes shown  that esure  acted unreasonably I cant uphold her complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules  I must ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7886961