K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the decision of esure Insurance Limited to decline the major
part of their claim following a fault in the septic tank at their property.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  a septic tank at their property which  is shared with their neighbours. 
The tank developed a fault which led to a system failure. It was identified that the dip pipe 
had failed which resulted in the clogging of underground pipes,  which are designed to 
disperse waste water,  which  in turn led to contamination  of the land which the pipes occupy.
It was identified that the required  repair included  a new dip pipe, and replacement  and
relocation of the drainage system. The neighbours insurer agreed to pay half of the costs
which were estimated at around £21,000.  When Mr and Mrs W made  a claim to esure for
their half of the costs  they were told that the majority of the claim wasnt  covered by their
policy. The insurer offered  to pay towards the replacement of the dip arm only,  explaining
that the damage to the drainage system wasnt covered.
To support its position, esure pointed to the wording of the policy  which it said had changed
in 2017. At the renewal that year, the documents sent out to Mr and Mrs W included  a
change which was explained as;
Buildings. - Underground  Services - What is not covered - new exclusion:
We will not pay for loss or damage to soakaways  and/or field drains
Mr and Mrs W argued that this change wasnt made clear to them at the time. They said that
if it had then they would have sought  and obtained insurance elsewhere  rather  than renew
with esure.  They also felt that the terms used were  vague and could be taken to mean 
something other than how they were now being interpreted  by esure.
When the complaint  came  to this service  our adjudicator agreed with esure that the new
exclusion had been appropriately clear and did apply  to the claim as esure had argued.  She
felt that esure was right to offer to cover  only its share of the costs  of the repair  of the dip
pipe. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the outcome so asked for an ombudsman to
review the case and make a final determination.
When I considered the complaint I took the view that it should  be upheld. So I issued a 
provisional decision in which  I said;
The original policy wording included a section for underground services which  
included cover for  repairing underground  service pipes, cables and septic tanks  
providing services to and from your home  . I dont believe that esure has ever 
sought to suggest otherwise but for clarity I confirm that in my opinion  the damage  in 
this case would be covered by that policy wording.
Its apparent that in its renewal notification esure sought to limit cover within this 
section by adding  an exclusion to remove cover for soakaways and/or field drains. I 
recognise Mr and Mrs Ws challenge of the clarity of this wording and accept  that it 
doesnt explicitly refer to the drainage field that runs from their septic tank. I think  a 
Ref: DRN75135432field drain is a different  thing entirely - usually a pipe in open  land to assist the 
drainage of soil. But I believe that soakaway is sufficiently relevant  to what Mr and 
Mrs W have in place and note that their own representative  uses the term in its report  
and representations. So Im satisfied that the new exclusion  would properly apply to 
this claim.  It follows then that my next consideration is whether I believe that esure 
did enough to bring this change to their attention.
Im not satisfied that esures notification of change to the policy terms was sufficiently
prominent in the circumstances of this case to allow it to rely on it to decline this 
claim. This service has for a long time held the view that when an insurer seeks  to 
change the extent of cover  under  an existing  policy, the clarity  of its communication  
of that change must appropriately reflect the importance of the change. The renewal 
documentation sent by esure in 2017 consisted of twenty four pages. The first two 
pages were a covering letter which started with the policy  premium  details then had a 
section headed  all you need to do now to renew is. The first of five numbered 
actions was headed important and covered the need to notify esure  of any changes  
in the policy  holders details. The second item told them  to read the renewal update 
for changes  to the cover.
Its been argued by esure that this was a clear  notice  that was sufficiently prominent 
and they have referred to later details within the information pack which  include the 
new exclusion. But the actual detail of the change appears on page nine of the pack. 
Before that is reached there are several  pages of details about the extent of cover, 
personal details,  claim values and premium  calculations.  Pages nine to eleven were  
titled renewal update and started  with comments regarding how the policy had been  
restructured to make it easier to understand, followed by sections on how claims are 
settled and definitions.  It was only after all of this information that the new exclusion 
appeared, with no highlighting or emphasis that distinguished it from the other 
sections. So, nine pages into a large document with no specific  emphasis of the 
importance of the change.
Im aware that esure has argued  that it uses standard  letters and these cant be 
tailored to the specific preferences of each policy holder, even if the insurer  knew  
what sections those  policy holders thought were important to them or not. But the fact 
remains that Mr and Mrs W, unusually, had a septic tank, and as has been seen in 
this case, repairs  for which can be very expensive. When  they first took the policy 
with esure  they were  fully covered for any accidental  damage.  In 2017 esure  sought  
to substantially limit the extent of the cover  under the policy.  Im satisfied that if they 
had been aware  of this change and its impact  then Mr and Mrs W would have sought 
alternative cover elsewhere and I believe that they would have been able to find 
appropriate cover.
I dont believe that the notification of this fundamental change  to the cover was 
brought to their attention  in a way that was appropriate and sufficiently prominent. Its 
not for me to tell esure how it should  construct its communications,  but I do need to 
make a determination of whether I think a policy holder  has unfairly suffered a loss. 
In this case the relatively few reductions  to cover could have been highlighted more 
clearly in the covering letter with appropriate  warnings that cover had been reduced  
in certain areas. If such clarity had existed,  even if it then referred readers to later 
sections for full details,  then I might consider that enough had been done.  The 
insurer does need  to have a care for the specific needs of its policy  holders but I think  
Ref: DRN75135433that the necessary level of clarity could have been  obtained generically,  without 
having to tailor a letter  to individuals.
In summary  I believe that the original policy covered the entirety of the claim and that 
esure cannot apply  the revised  wording  to this claim to exclude  cover  for damage to 
the drainage field.
I concluded that esure couldnt use the new exclusion to decline the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and my decision is that the complaint 
should be upheld.
In its response to my provisional decision esure  reiterated the points it had made  previously. 
It specifically argued  that its notification  of the change had been appropriately clear. It 
erroneously said that the notification was on page 7, its in fact on page 9, of the documents 
but correctly reminded  me that this was the start of a 3 page section which it actually refers  
to as the renewal  update, and that the change  appeared on the first page of that section. It 
felt that it couldnt  have  done any more to be clear  to the consumer about the change.  It also 
argued that it has been issuing renewals in this format  for a number of years  so Mr and Mrs 
W should have been familiar with the format  and been able to find the changes  easily.
I think this misses the point that I made in my provisional decision. Again, I should say that 
my role isnt to tell insurers how they should  structure their letters.  But I have been  very clear 
in the provisional  decision  on what I believe are the weaknesses of esures communication 
in this case. 
The insurer  must take account  of the needs  of its consumers. In this instance those needs 
were specific  and unusual  in some respects.  The change  that esure sought to make to the 
policy meant a substantial increased risk to Mr and Mrs W. In my view that change  wasnt  
appropriately clear  to them for the reasons described in my provisional  decision. The fact 
that theyd received previous similar  documents that didnt include such major changes  
serves only to emphasise the problem that consumers can legitimately become confused by, 
or even  immune to, the detail of substantial documents. 
In summary,  I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs W were substantially  disadvantaged  by a 
change to their cover  which wasnt sufficiently drawn to their attention  and that if it had been 
then they most likely would have sought and obtained alternative cover elsewhere. It follows 
that my decision is that esure cant rely on the exclusion to decline this claim. 
My provisional decision concluded with;
I therefore  require esure to assess the claim  under  the cover provided  by the original
wording. Im aware that in August  2018 the work hadnt been  completed  and Ive 
seen the costs estimate for repair of around £21,000 which  weve been told is being 
shared with a neighbour. But its for esure to decide how to properly progress and 
settle the claim under the terms  of its policy including the arrangements with other 
interested insurers.
Ref: DRN75135434Mr and Mrs W might want to update me on the repair work when responding to this
provisional decision.
This is a finely balanced case  and I can understand  esures reasons  for seeking to 
decline the major part of the claim.  As a result  I dont  think  that esure  should  pay any 
compensation for distress or inconvenience to Mr and Mrs W. I also think that this is 
a complaint which could have been brought to this service  without  the need to 
engage with a claims management  company so I dont  intend to require esure to 
meet any claim for costs of bringing this complaint.
Neither party has commented further on the issue of redress.  So my final decision will 
remain the same.
my final decision
My decision  is to uphold  this complaint and require esure Insurance  Limited to consider the 
claim without  applying  the exclusion it sought  to bring in through  its renewal in 2017.
If a cash payment is made to settle  the claim then interest will be payable  at the rate of 8%
simple per annum from the date of loss to the date that the payment is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7513543