K821x#15complaint
Ms B says that TSB Bank Plcs IT problems have  resulted in her losing  out on interest  on her 
ISA and have  caused her a great  deal of anxiety and worry. She wants TSB Bank plc to 
compensate her for this.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in December 2018 explaining why I intended  to 
uphold Ms Bs complaint. A copy of my provisional  decision is attached  and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments and evidence  they would like 
me to consider. Neither Ms B nor TSB have  responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms B nor TSB have provided me with anything further to consider there is no 
reason for me to depart  from the findings set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold  Ms Bs complaint for the same reasons as those set out in my 
provisional decision.
putting things right
TSB should:
-pay Ms B 1.4% interest on what the savings were in her ISA from 6 April 2018  to 29 
May 2018. They can deduct from this what they have already paid Ms B in interest;
-pay Ms B £150 for the worry and anxiety TSB have  caused her if they havent done 
so already; and
-pay Ms B £50 towards  the financial costs  she has incurred travelling to the branch if 
they havent done so already.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint and require TSB Bank Plc to put matter  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78805332copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms B says that TSB Bank plcs IT problems  have resulted in her losing out on interest on her ISA and 
have caused her a great deal of anxiety and worry. She wants TSB Bank plc to compensate her for 
this.
background
Ms B had an ISA with TSB. The interest rate was 1.6%. In around February 2018, TSB sent Ms B a 
letter to let her know that her ISA was about to mature in April 2018.  Ms B made arrangements for her 
ISA to be transferred to another provider from 6 April 2018. The new provider would have paid 
interest at a rate of 1.4%.
Ms B says that because  of TSBs IT issues the transfer  to her new provider  didnt take place until 29 
May 2018. This meant Ms B lost out on interest for around 54 days.
Ms B thinks that because her funds  were  with TSB for an extra 54 days, they should  have continued 
to pay her interest at 1.6%. Instead they moved her to a cash  saver ISA with a much  reduced interest 
rate. TSB have only paid her around £48.
Our adjudicator considered  Ms Bs complaint and recommended  that TSB pay Ms B the difference  
between what Ms B thought the interest rate had reduced to with TSB from 5 April 2018(1%) and 
what she was meant to receive from her new provider  (1.4%). This made  the difference  0.4%.  Our 
adjudicator calculated this over a period  of 56 days and came to a figure  of £101.36.
TSB accepted  the adjudicators recommendation. However, Ms B didnt  agree with this calculation as 
she says she hasnt  even received 1% interest from TSB. She says she has lost out on interest of 
around £400.  So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, I intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Its clear to me that Ms B should  be paid the interest she has lost out on from when the transfer 
should have taken place  to when it actually did. According to the information Ms B has provided, the 
transfer should have taken place on 6 April 2018  but didnt  take place  until 29 May 2018. The 
question is how much interest has Ms B lost out on.
If everything had gone through  as it should have done, Ms B would have started to earn 1.4% interest 
on her ISA with her new provider from 6 April 2018. So the fair thing to do in these  circumstances is to 
put Ms B back in the position  she would have been in as if the transfer had taken place  on 6 April 
2018. So TSB should  pay Ms B the 1.4% interest she has lost out on from 6 April 2018 to 29 May 
2018. TSB can deduct the amount of interest they have already paid from this. 
I dont agree that Ms B should be paid 1.6% over this period of time because  this is not the amount 
she would have been getting had the transfer taken place  as it should  have done. Its unclear why Ms 
B initially thought that the interest on the ISA had reduced to 1% during the delayed period but in any 
event I accept  Ms B didnt even receive  1% interest  during the delayed transfer period. Going by how 
much interest  TSB have paid her, it seems  to me that she only received  around 0.2%. 
Ref: DRN78805333I appreciate how worrying this whole issue has been for Ms B. She was understandably very anxious  
about what had happened  to her funds as she was told by a manager  that they couldnt  locate her on 
their screen   these  were her life savings. She spent a considerable amount of time trying to speak to 
TSB on the phone and also made several  branch  visits. So I think  TSB should pay Ms B £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience  they caused  her as well as £50 towards the cost of her travelling  to the 
branch.
putting things  right
TSB should:
-pay Ms B 1.4% interest on what the savings were  in her ISA from 6 April 2018 to 29 May 
2018. They can deduct from this what they have already  paid Ms B in interest
-pay Ms B £150 for the worry and anxiety TSB have caused her if they havent done so 
already
-pay Ms B £50 towards the financial costs  she has incurred travelling to the branch if they 
havent done  so already.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Ms Bs complaint and require  TSB Bank plc to put things right as set out above.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7880533