K822xcomplaint
Ms P is unhappy with her contents  insurer  Allianz Insurance  Plc. It declined a claim she 
made after a burglary. Allianz said it had concerns so it wouldnt settle  the claim.
background 
Ms P made a claim to Allianz in January 2018 after she was burgled. Allianz began  
investigating the claim. It noted that Ms P owns a jewellery business  and one of the items  
claimed for seemed to belong  to the business. It decided  to investigate the claim further. 
Allianz took a statement from Ms P and tried to speak to the police. It considered the 
evidence received from Ms P. 
In December 2018 Allianz wrote to Ms P. It said it had concerns about  her claim and set out 
what those were. It said as those concerns hadnt been resolved, it was declining  her claim. 
Ms P complained to us. Our investigator  felt Allianz refusal to settle for the jewellery  was 
reasonable but thought  it should have settled for the cash part of her claim, especially given 
evidence from Ms Ps accountant that she provided.  The evidence  was shared with Allianz. 
Allianz felt the accountants confirmation wasnt enough  it said it would have to see proof  of 
money being taken  from the businesss bank account. It also said it wasnt happy  as Ms P at 
times had referred  to the cash  belonging to the business, ie not being her personal  money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz should know that it cant  just decline a claim merely because it has concerns. But Im 
prepared to accept  that in this case Allianz  just hasnt  explained  itself too well. Really, taking 
the file evidence as a whole, what Im satisfied Allianz meant was that Ms P hasnt shown 
she, personally, owned the jewellery  items  claimed  for. Given what  Ive seen I think that is a 
fair conclusion. 
Ms P only claimed for a handful of items. But one was later withdrawn when it was pointed 
out to Ms P, and she accepted, that this item had been purchased  by her jewellery business. 
Other items Ms P says she was given or she purchased. But the partial receipt she provided  
for a watch  and some photos of her wearing jewellery arent sufficient  to show she most 
likely owned these items. Not when set in the light of Ms Ps comment to the loss adjuster 
that she is in the habit  of wearing jewellery belonging to the business.  Based on what  Ive 
seen I think Allianz decline of the jewellery part of the claim was fair and reasonable. 
The claim for cash is a different matter. Ms P told Allianz in January 2018 that cash had 
been stolen. She later explained this as having come from the business as a private 
drawing. Allianz  seemed to think  this meant  it wasnt clear  if this was business  money  or 
personal. Ms P said her accountant could  verify.  Allianz didnt make enquiries with her 
accountant. Ms P later provided this service  confirmation  from her accountant that she 
personally had taken certain  amounts  of money from the business (private  drawings). 
I realise Allianz thinks the accountants information  isnt enough, but I disagree. Its official  
confirmation of the businesss  financial records and Ms P would have no other way of 
evidencing her taking cash from the business.  Im satisfied Allianz should pay the claim for 
stolen money in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN74875242my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Allianz  Insurance Plc to settle Ms Ps claim for stolen 
money in line with the policys  remaining terms and conditions.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7487524