K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc was unclear about  information 
requirements and then closed the bank account.
background
HSBC wrote to P to say that it was carrying out a safeguard review.  It asked P to provide 
information about its business and said it would use this to help guard against  fraud  and 
financial crime. HSBC emailed P with additional  information it needed. The director of P was 
concerned that this was a not genuine request. And she says that HSBC  told her that it did 
not need anything else. The account  was closed and this has caused inconvenience to P.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and P be paid £250 in 
compensation. He said that HSBC had let P down badly in a call about a request for 
information. Although  it had said P should  call back the next day HSBC  had not made clear 
how important the information was and the consequences of not providing this. HSBC  had 
given P the correct  notice to close the account but had been responsible  for an element of 
the inconvenience caused due to the poor service.
P did not agree. The director said she made  at least three calls to HSBC  and was told she 
did not need to provide anything to the safeguarding team.  She said that HSBC will have 
records of these but has chosen  not to provide them. P had difficulty opening  an account at 
a different financial business and said the compensation did not reflect the financial 
losses, emotional distress and loss of time HSBC has caused.
HSBC did not agree either. It said that it had made the consequences of not providing  the 
information clear in its letters about this review. P had not called back and HSBC had then 
provided P with a notice of closure of the account.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 July 2019 as follows.
I set out a timeline of the key events here:
-24 July 2018- HSBC  wrote to P and said it had 84 days  to provide the information or 
it may need to close the account.
-2 August 2018- P submitted an online form
-3 September  2018-  HSBC tried to contact P about further information and sent an 
email setting out what is required.
-19 September 2018- HSBC emailed P and reminded it about  the information.
-26 September 2018- HSBC called P and the director states  she is not then 
comfortable providing the information  over the phone. She then called back at 16:58 
and is told the relevant  teams office  is then closed.
-27 September 2018 HSBC said it attempted to call P at 9.07 but was unsuccessful. 
A file note recorded Ps existing concerns about the request and gives  a number to 
direct any call from P to.
-16 October 2018- a letter  is sent to P giving notice of the account  closure.
-14 January 2019-  the account  is closed and the next day P is sent a cheque for the 
balance.
Ref: DRN78685132-18 January 2019 P raised a complaint and HSBC sent a final response dated  23 
January 2019.
P says that it called HSBC about the review at least  three  times.  It is very specific  about  one 
call which is says took place at 15:32  on 19 September 2018. P says it was then told nothing  
further was required. 
The only call recording HSBC has been  able to provide is Ps call in from 26 September  
2018. The person P spoke to acknowledged  the directors concerns about whether an email 
request for confidential information  was genuine.  The relevant team was then closed (from 
17:00) and all the member of staff could tell P was that the case was under review and it was 
not clear why there was an information  request now. The call concluded  on the basis that P 
would call back the next day during the hours that the relevant safeguard  team operated.  P 
did not do so.
During this call the director of P said she had called twice before and had been told that the 
application had gone through and was being reviewed. HSBC has no record of those earlier 
calls. But if I accepted that P did make them then I didnt  see how these could  have resolved 
the outstanding information request. A member  of staff at HSBC had set out very specific 
questions about  Ps business in an email. That information was never  provided. There may 
have been a lack of clarity about  this before 26 September 2018. But I still thought that 
following the call that day the agreed way forward was that P would call back. P did not do 
so and provide  the information.  And I was also not aware of any action it took after HSBC  
sent the letter giving P notice of closure on 16 October 2018. 
I said that under the terms and conditions HSBC  was entitled to close  the account provided it 
gave P at least two months notice. It did so here. So I thought P could reasonably  have 
expected that the account would be closed  and it would have to make alternative banking  
arrangements, however  difficult that proved. So I didnt find that HSBC has made  a mistake 
in closing the account or acted unreasonably  in requesting  the information. And I wouldnt be 
asking it to pay P any compensation or take any other action.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt receive any comments in response to my provisional decision. So I see no reason  to 
depart from my provisional findings  for this complaint. Im afraid I dont  consider that HSBC  
has made a mistake or acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN78685133my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7868513