K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with some calls they received from Aviva Insurance  Limited  
(Aviva) in relation to the renewal of their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that in November 2018 they received two calls from Aviva. 
They have explained that they werent  satisfied with the content  of these calls and how these 
were handled.  These calls were in respect  of their home insurance policy,  which  was due to 
automatically renew.
In relation to the first call  Mrs and Mrs M explained  that Mrs M answered the phone,  but 
the person who was calling wasnt very clear  about the nature of the call. They said the 
caller didnt explain who they were, or why they were  calling.  Mr M and Mrs M said the caller  
asked to speak  to Mr M. But because Mrs M remained  concerned about the call, and that it 
may not be genuine  contact from Aviva she terminated the call.
Mr M and Mrs M explained that they were called again two days later by the same phone  
number. They explained that Mrs M answered  the phone, and again, she wasnt given any 
details about who was calling or why. Mrs M passed the phone to Mr M. Theyve said Mr M 
also didnt receive  adequate information  from the caller. 
Mr M and Mrs M have  noted that Mr M asked a number of questions of the caller in respect  
of his personal details  as he was trying to find out if the call was genuine. But, because his 
questions werent  sufficiently answered he also terminated the call. Mr and Mrs M explained  
they reported the calls to Aviva, because  of their concerns.
In addition to the above,  Mr and Mrs M noted  they were given some  false information in the 
second phone call. They said the person who called them the second time said theyd had 
never called Mr and Mrs M before. But in fact it had been them who had called the first time 
too.
Aviva reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It thought  Mr and Mrs M had been given incorrect  
information about this  because it was the same  representative who called both times. And 
it apologised for this. Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree they referred  their complaint to this 
service for an independent  review.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She thought both calls to 
Mr and Mrs M had been handled sufficiently by Aviva. She acknowledged  that Mr and Mrs M 
were given the wrong information in the second  call  because it had been the same caller  
that had contacted 
them both times. But overall she felt Aviva had acted reasonably,  and she didnt think it 
needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They said they had never received calls from Aviva before now. 
And they hadnt  been informed they would receive any calls from Aviva about the renewal of 
their home insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M felt the advisor should have explained this was 
the purpose of the calls from the outset, and gone through  security  questions at the 
beginning of the calls. 
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree this complaint  has been  referred  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN79692442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
As above, Mr and Mrs M are concerned  with the calls they received from Aviva, and how 
these were handled by it. So Ive needed to consider the content  of those calls and whether I 
think Aviva  acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Ive listened to the recording of both conversations. And overall Im satisfied the calls were 
handled professionally  and fairly. 
Mr and Mrs M have  raised concerns that the caller didnt identify who they were,  and where  
they were calling from. But from listening to the calls Im aware  the caller does provide their 
name, and explain  where  they are ringing from on both occasions. They  use the trading 
name of the insurance policy Mr and Mrs M have in place. From  what Ive seen I think  this 
has caused Mr and Mrs M some concern. But, it is normal in the insurance  industry  that a 
business may trade in partnership, or as a different name. I dont  think  Aviva did anything 
wrong here in the way they identified itself. 
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ms policy  documents  which do note the business entity the policy  is 
trading as, and that the insurer  of the policy is Aviva. So I do think this was made to clear to 
Mr and Mrs M  and it was reasonable for the caller to identify themselves using the trading 
name. 
Its clear from the calls that both Mr and Mrs M were  concerned about who the caller  was. 
But the caller  did reiterate where she was calling from when  asked. And in the second call, 
when speaking to Mr M she did explain she was calling in relation to Mr Ms policy renewal. 
The caller  wouldnt have  been able to to go into further detail about  the purpose  of her call 
until Mr and Mrs M had completed the security  process.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  feel able to complete continue with the calls.  And Mr M didnt feel it 
would be appropriate  to complete the the security questions the caller asked in the second 
call. He felt the caller  should have been  able to answer these  questions  herself  such as 
Mr Ms full name. So, he terminated the call. But, it is a common security  process  to ask for 
questions such as this to be asked. And I think the caller was fairly attempting to progress 
the call.  
I know Mr M did ask the caller some  information  about his policy in the second call in an 
attempt to establish if the calls he had received was genuine. He asked how much his 
previous years insurance premium had been. But the caller  said they couldnt answer these 
questions until the security process  had been completed. I think  this is reasonable as the 
caller was safeguarding  personal information  about  Mr and Mrs Ms policy.  
Mr and Mrs M have  said Aviva should have told them they would receive  a call about the 
renewal of their policy. And that security questions  should  have  been  asked of them  as soon 
as the calls began. I think  the caller did attempt to complete  security  questions when she 
could. And although Mr and Mrs M would  have liked to have received some communication 
to say they would be contacted I dont think this was necessary. Overall I think  the caller  did 
Ref: DRN79692443handle the matter professionally. Because of this I dont think  Aviva did anything wrong here 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
I do think there was one area of the second call which could have been  handler better. In the 
second conversation  the caller said it wasnt her who had called a few days ago. But, it is 
accepted that it was the same person. I think the caller could have explained it was her on 
both occasions.  But Aviva has apologised for this. And, whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ms 
explanation of the upset  and inconvenience  this matter caused Im satisfied this apology  is 
sufficient to recognise any distress and inconvenience  caused. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7969244