K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about Inter Partner  Assistance SAs handling of a claim made under 
her travel policy.  
Miss C is represented in this complaint by Mr C. I will refer throughout to Miss C and any 
reference to communications from Miss C should be read as including  anything  
communicated on her behalf by Mr C. 
background
Miss C has a travel insurance  policy, provided as a benefit with her credit card, which  
includes some  legal  expenses insurance cover. 
Miss C booked a holiday  through a tour operator.  She wants to take legal  action against  
them, as the holiday  accommodation was not up to standard. Miss C says she was badly 
bitten by bed bugs, which ruined her holiday and she has suffered post-traumatic stress 
disorder as a result. Miss C also says she spent £100 on medication. 
I understand that a solicitor did act for around  a year. However,  Miss C says they did nothing 
to help secure any settlement from the hotel  or tour operator and they told her it was not 
worth pursuing. 
IPA subsequently rejected the claim on the basis of the following policy wording: 
Legal  Advice  and Expenses
What you are not covered for:
d) any claim  made  by you against  us, our agent  or an insurer  underwriting  any section of this 
Policy, or a travel agent, tour operator,  carrier  or American Express Insurance Services.
IPA also says that the policy  allows  it to issue proceedings under a contingency fee system 
in the relevant country (which  would mean  Miss C would  have  to pay a third of any damages 
obtained to the lawyers) and as she had received  an offer from the hotel  that the solicitors 
considered generous she was better  off accepting that. 
I understand that Miss C complained direct to the tour operator who has refunded half the 
cost of the accommodation, without any admission of liability.  
Miss C doesnt consider  this to be fair. The policy was a travel  policy  and so she expected it 
to cover problems with the holiday. She says she wants $5,000 dollars  for medical  expenses  
and compensation  for her bodily  injury.
IPA says that if Miss C incurred medical expenses, as a result   of this incident  then the 
policy would cover them up to the policy limit. Miss C subsequently confirmed that she had 
spent $100 on medication and I understand  this has been reimbursed.  
One of our investigators  looked into the case and recommended it be upheld as she thought 
it was unfair  to exclude legal claims such as this in a travel insurance policy.
IPA doesnt accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been  passed to me.
 
Ref: DRN73551812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are generally entitled  to decide the cover they want  to provide. Although  this is a 
travel insurance policy it is not guaranteed  that it will cover every eventuality  that might  
happen while the policyholder is on holiday.  Rather it will cover certain specified insured 
events, such as the need for medical  treatment while away or cancellation of the holiday. It 
also includes  some  limited  legal expenses cover. This is also subject to terms and 
conditions. Not unusually  for a travel insurance  policy, this does not cover the legal costs of 
taking action against the tour operator  through which the holiday was booked.  
While Miss C might consider that it would make sense for the legal expenses section of a 
travel insurance policy to cover such actions,  that doesnt mean that IPA has to include such 
cover. And as stated this is common to most  travel  insurance policies that I have seen. I 
dont consider such a term to be inherently unfair or unreasonable.  
The policy term relied on is also set out sufficiently clearly in my opinion  and there  is no 
ambiguity or uncertainty about its meaning. The policy clearly  excludes legal costs involved 
in suing the tour operator. 
However, there is no exclusion in relation to the hotel and so there  was a potential  claim  
under the policy  to pursue  an action  against  the hotel. 
I understand that solicitors did look into this and advised that it was not worth pursuing  any 
further and that Miss C should accept the offer made by the hotel. It seems  that the hotels 
insurers said they would settle Miss Cs medical expenses up to $5,000. The solicitors  said 
this was more  than she could hope  to achieve  if she took legal  proceedings in the relevant 
country and it was unlikely she would obtain  anything more than this. This offer is in relation 
to medical expenses, which  I understand Miss C already had reimbursed, rather  than for 
damages. However, the solicitors  are the legal  experts and there  is no convincing evidence  
that what they have  said is incorrect.  
The policy will not cover  legal expenses in pursuing a claim where there is not a reasonable 
chance of you winning  the case or achieving a reasonable  settlement. It will also only cover 
the legal  costs incurred if no compensation is received;  if compensation is received  then IPA 
can recoup its outlay from any such award.
Therefore given that the solicitors have  advised that it is unlikely that Miss C will achieve a 
reasonable settlement, I am unable to agree that IPA should continue  to fund the legal case.  
It is entitled to rely on the expert advice of the solicitors.
Miss C is also unhappy  with the actions of the solicitors,  including  that she thinks they should  
have obtained  psychiatric evidence which would  have enhanced the value of her claim. 
However, I can only consider what IPA has done  and have no jurisdiction over solicitors. 
They are subject to regulation  by their own professional body.  
Miss C has also suggested that IPA should pay her compensation for her injury.  There  is 
cover under the policy for medical expenses, which has already been  paid.  There is also 
cover for personal accidents which result in injury. However, the personal accident  section  of 
the policy will only provide  a benefit  where the policyholder suffers  an accidental  bodily 
Ref: DRN73551813injury  which  is the sole and direct cause  of death or disablement. There  is no evidence  
that Miss C has been disabled  by this matter and so I do not consider that this section  of 
cover is relevant to her claim.  
I dont therefore  consider  that IPA needs  to do anything further under the policy. 
my provisional decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Miss Cs situation,  I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered.
Miss C has responded  and confirmed that she does  not accept my decision. She has made 
a number of further  submissions, which Ive summarised below: 
This was not a card benefit, she paid for the insurance separately.
She was told by ABTA  and the holiday package regulator that the tour operator was 
responsible if the holiday  went wrong.  The tour operator is not member of ABTA.
She is still suffering  from PTSD and anxiety  attacks due to her physical and mental 
injuries.
Recently a man who was bitten by bed bugs suffered brain  damage  as a result.
The solicitors acting  on her behalf wasted a year but could have arranged early  
settlement with the evidence that Miss C provided. 
The exclusions relied on were  hidden under a different clause  they should have 
appeared on page 11 or 66 with the rest of the exclusions, not on page 54 where  it is 
found. In any case  it is designed  to reject  any reasonable  claim made  by the policy 
holder. 
Miss C would have accepted the $5,000 and paid a third of any damages to the 
lawyers but was not given that opportunity. The solicitors said he would not act for 
her under  the policy, only under  a retainer and that any legal costs might exceed  any 
damages. 
The solicitors were  trying to extort money from her. 
The solicitors advised the claim was worth around $1,000  but this is ridiculous  given 
that these claims are worth  $2,000  to $20,000, sometimes more.
The solicitors also told Miss C to negotiate with the hotel herself  contrary  to the 
terms of the policy  for $15,000.
The policy provides  that IPA can take over any claim  and it should have done  so here 
because of the special circumstances. 
The tour operator accepted liability and paid for part of the ruined holiday.
IPA has not paid any medical  expenses.  
She didnt receive the policy documents until after she got back  from her holiday and 
was not aware  of the exclusions of cover. 
Miss C has asked me to reconsider my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73551814Miss C disagrees with the solicitors advice but there  is no alternative  expert  legal advice that 
would persuade me that he was wrong. He apparently didnt think there were sufficient 
prospects of succeeding  in any additional or better  offer from the hotel. Although Miss C 
says these kind of claims  result in damages of between $2,000  and $20,000, this does not 
mean that this is what her claim is worth. 
Miss C has also referred to a case where  a man suffered permanent  injury as a result of 
being bitten by bed bugs  but theres  no medical evidence that Miss C has suffered  in the 
same way. Theres no expert evidence that her claim is worth more  than the solicitor  
suggested. 
I note Miss C says IPA should  have paid for a medical report but there would have  to be a 
valid claim and some evidence that this was a reasonable expense before an insurer would 
be expected to fund such a report. 
IPA was entitled to rely on the solicitors  advice and this was that it was not reasonable  to 
incur expenses in pursuing  the case against the hotel further and the offer already made 
should be accepted. 
While I note Miss Cs strength of feeling  about the value and strength of her own legal  case, 
I am not persuaded that this should  mean  the opinion of the solicitor  should be disregarded. 
The policy also does provide that the solicitors act under a contingency fee  i.e. a retainer  
so  Miss  C would have to sign that she is responsible for the costs if she wins.  That is the 
provision under the policy. She says she wanted the solicitor to act under the policy  but this 
is the terms of cover.   
Miss C also says she was not given  the option of accepting the $5,000  under the 
contingency fee arrangement but I have  seen an email to Miss C dated 27 June 2017  from 
the solicitor, which  I am satisfied made  sufficiently clear  to Miss C that she could sign the 
retainer and ask the solicitors  to negotiate  with the hotel  but that it was unlikely  to get a 
higher offer than the $5,000 already offered by the hotel, and shed have to pay part of 
whatever she did get to the solicitors under the terms of the cover   or accept that offer 
direct with the hotel.  
While Miss C says she couldnt have accepted this without IPAs permission, according to 
the policy terms, the solicitor did explain he would not be able to contact the hotel on her 
behalf because  shed need to sign the retainer and if she signed the retainer shed have  to 
relinquish part of the $5,000 offered by the hotel. 
Miss C also says that the solicitor caused undue  delay and IPA should  have  taken over 
conduct of the claim given  the circumstances. The policy gives IPA the right to take over the 
conduct of legal proceedings, but it is not obliged to do so. This would normally  be to protect 
its own position in pursuing a claim  in the name of the consumer to recover  expenses  it has 
incurred under the policy. I am not persuaded that IPA needed to take any such action in this 
case. I am not persuaded  that there was any avoidable delay on IPAs  part. The solicitor was 
acting independently and so IPA is not directly responsible for any action  or omission  on his 
part but I cant see any undue delay that IPA should  have been  aware  of.  
The policy doesnt  cover  any legal action against the tour operator. Miss C says that this 
exclusion should have  been set out in the significant  exclusions section of the policy  on 
Ref: DRN73551815page 11 and/or on page  66 (which is where the general exclusions that apply to the whole of 
the policy are set out). 
I dont think it would  have  made any difference if the exclusion of cover for any legal action 
against a tour operator had been  on page  11 or page 66, rather  than within the section of the 
policy about legal expenses cover to which it applies. I dont  think it would have made  it any 
clearer for it to be contained  there. It was set out in the legal expenses section of the policy  
and I am not persuaded that is unreasonable or that the fact it was there means IPA cant  
rely on it. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that IPA did not act unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to 
fund medical experts reports or any further  legal expenses  in relation to a claim against the 
hotel or the tour operator. 
With regard to the medical  expenses,  Miss C said shed  incurred  expenses  of $100.  I had 
understood that this had been reimbursed but Miss C has said IPA has not paid her any 
money. If this is covered  by the policy  then IPA should consider this as a claim under  the 
medical expenses  sections of cover. 
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Miss Cs situation,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7355181