K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited charged  him an additional
premium after he renewed his motor insurance policy,  then cancelled his policy when it 
shouldnt have done so and delayed  putting  matters right.
Acromas is the underwriter of Mr Hs policy. Reference to Acromas includes reference to its
agents.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 28 April 2020,  an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I wont repeat that 
information here. In my provisional decision,  I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and what I thought Acromas should  do to put matters  right.   
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H agreed with my provisional  decision but raised a query in relation to quotes he received  
from other insurers. Acromas accepted my provisional decision but said that it received an 
estimate for repairs from the third party, so was obliged to open a claim and record  it as a 
fault incident  whilst  the matter was investigated. It said it had asked for the incident to be 
removed from the claims and underwriting exchange  (CUE). Acromas said that there was a 
refund of £17.28 due to Mr H and its records show that Mr H had cashed the cheque  for 
£100. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr H and Acromas have accepted my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. But Ill comment on what  
Acromas and Mr H have  said.
Acromas hasnt previously mentioned that it received  a claim for repairs from the third party.  
Its right to say that its obliged to open a claim and investigate it. But it already had Mr Hs 
response to the claim on file. So, the claim would only need to open  for a very short time. In 
any event, it had already  offered Mr H renewal knowing about the incident and entered  into 
an annual contract with Mr H at a premium of £873.48. So, I dont think it was appropriate for 
it to ask for an additional premium for that year as a result of the incident or subsequent  
claim. 
Acromas response to my provisional decision suggests that its only now sought to update  
CUE. Thats contrary to what its said previously. That may be why Mr H faced increased 
premiums when he sought quotes  from other insurers. As I said in the provisional  decision, If 
Mr H paid an increased premium because information about  this matter was on CUE, he 
should ask his insurer to reconsider the matter. If hes not happy  with the outcome of that, he 
should complain  to the insurer in the first instance  and may then refer the matter  to this 
service.
 
Ref: DRN71922112my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  I now direct Acromas Insurance Company Limited to:
1.Refund to Mr H any amount he paid in excess of £873.48 for the policy year 
September 2018 to September  2019,  plus interest on any refund at the simple rate of 
8% per year, from the date Mr H made any overpayment to the date Acromas makes  
the payment.
2.Pay Mr H total compensation of £400  in relation  to his distress  and 
inconvenience, taking  into account any payment it has already made.
3.Record the incident from August  2018 correctly in its records.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71922113extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company  Limited charged him an additional  premium after 
he renewed  his motor  insurance policy, then cancelled  his policy when it shouldnt have done so and 
delayed putting matters  right.
Acromas is the underwriter  of Mr Hs policy. Reference to Acromas includes reference  to its agents.
background
Theres been  a considerable  amount of correspondence  between the parties, which I wont set out 
here. In summary, Mr H says that in August 2018, he was the subject of an attempted scam. He 
says that when he took his car to an MOT  test centre, a man who worked there falsely claimed  Mr H 
had damaged  a parked car whilst driving. The man called  on his friend in the accident repair shop  
next door who quoted for the repair. Mr H denied that hed damaged  the parked  car, took his own 
photos of the alleged damage, told the men that it was a fraudulent claim and reported the matter to 
Acromas. Acromas recorded  information about the incident,  which Ill refer to in more detail  below. 
Mr H says that he thinks the men were trying  it on with him because of his advanced years.
Mr H renewed his policy with effect from 24 September 2018,  at a premium of £873.48, which Mr H 
paid in full. Im told that in October  2018, Acromas asked Mr H to complete  a statement about  the 
incident in August 2018.  Acromas  then asked Mr H to pay an additional  premium of £533.77 
because of the incident.
Mr H refused to pay the additional premium  and on 30 October 2018,  Acromas cancelled  his policy. 
In November  2018, Acromas issued a pro-rata refund of £712.14  to Mr H but it didnt tell him it had 
done so. But it did tell him about a refund of £33.52.
Mr H complained that his policy had been cancelled. Acromas  offered Mr H a new policy  for a 
premium of £1,767 and it continued to send requests for payment  of various amounts. In February 
2019, Mr H paid over £700 and he received what Acromas referred to as replacement policy  
documents showing  cover from 1 February 2019, to the end of the original term in September  2019. 
At some point, Acromas  reinstated Mr Hs policy with effect from 30 October 2018   the date of 
cancellation.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Acromas paid him compensation  of £100. It said that was 
because of a delay in closing the claim  file and removing the incident from the records,  which  led to 
a delay  in adjusting the premium. Mr H didnt  think that was sufficient. He wanted  compensation  of 
£2,000.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that in the particular 
circumstances here, it wasnt  fair for Acromas to charge Mr H an additional  premium as there was 
no claim against  his policy, either by him or a third party. So, it wasnt fair when Acromas 
subsequently cancelled the policy for non-payment  of the additional premium.
The investigator said that whilst he appreciated that Mr Hs policy  was reinstated  with effect from 30 
October 2018 - the date of cancellation - Mr H didnt know that until the end of November  2018.  So, 
for a month, Mr H thought he was uninsured  and couldnt drive his car. He thought  that total 
compensation of £250 was fair.
Ref: DRN71922114Mr H didnt think that compensation  of £250 was sufficient. He said that he wasnt told in 
November 2018 that his policy had been reinstated. And as Acromas  was refunding his premium 
around then,  thats unlikely to be accurate.  Mr H says that when he phoned  Acromas on 30 
November 2018, it told him that his insurance was in order, but despite repeated requests, he 
didnt receive anything in writing until 17 January 2019.
Mr H says that on renewal of his policy  in September 2019,  he discovered that his premium had 
increased because the incident was still recorded centrally.  He said that this matter has caused him 
financial loss, car hire costs,  an increase in premium  and exceptional levels  of stress  and worry over 
several weeks.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy includes a provision that he must give Acromas full details of any incident that could  
lead to a claim against the policy. Mr H did just that when he reported what  had happened in August 
2018. I dont  think that Acromas was wrong  to note that as an incident  which could  lead to a claim, 
albeit one that Mr H said was fraudulent.  But I think that Acromas made mistakes  in what it recorded  
about the information Mr H provided,  which  led to considerable confusion.
When Acromas sent Mr H renewal documentation in September 2018, it knew about the 
information Mr H had reported in August  2018. The September 2018 renewal schedule 
contained the following:
Claims history
Total claims, accidents  or incidents made or reported within the                             1            past 
five years for all drivers
Date                                                                   Description
August 2018                                                        Hit parked TP or immobile  property
(Information only)
This description didnt really  give the full picture, but at least it was noted as Information only to 
show it wasnt  actually a claim against Mr Hs policy.
Acromas has provided me with confidential, business-sensitive information to explain how it 
calculated Mr Hs premium at renewal  and subsequently. Im afraid I cant  share that with
Mr H but he can rest assured Ive checked it carefully. The information  shows that Acromas 
recorded a fault  claim against Mr Hs policy after it had renewed on 24 September 2018. Insurers 
register a fault claim when  theyve paid out and cant recover  the costs. But here, there  was never  
a claim against Mr Hs policy and Acromas hadnt paid out any money. So, it shouldnt have 
registered a fault  claim. It was entitled to record the incident Mr H had reported as notification 
only, which it had in effect done originally, although it used the term Information only. But I cant  
understand why it changed  the status  of the incident  to a fault claim.
Ref: DRN71922115I think that Acromas treated  Mr H unfairly  in asking  him for an additional premium in October
2018. This is for two reasons. Firstly,  because there had been no claim from the
August 2018  incident. Secondly, it had already offered renewal knowing  about  the incident and 
entered into an annual contract with Mr H at a premium of £873.48.  So, I dont think  it was 
appropriate for it to ask for an additional premium  for that year as a result of the incident. So, even if 
there had been a claim, Acromas had paid out and been  unable to recover its costs, I dont  think it 
would have been entitled  to charge extra to reflect it until the following renewal  in September  2019.
Its been difficult to establish exactly what Mr H ended up paying for the policy  year September 2018 
to September 2019. He should have paid no more  than £873.48.  Acromas should  check  what  Mr H 
paid, taking into account the pro-rata charge at the beginning of the policy  and the later payment he 
made of over £700. If Mr H has paid more than £873.48,  it should refund the additional  amount, with 
interest.
Understandably, Mr H refused to pay the additional premium and this led to his policy being 
cancelled. This would  have been very worrying  and frustrating for him. But, Ive seen that Acromas 
reinstated Mr Hs policy, so Im satisfied that - in effect-  continuous cover was in place.  But Mr H 
didnt know that. Mr H says that on 30 November  2018,  he received a verbal assurance from 
Acromas that his insurance  was in place. I can quite understand why he didnt wish to rely on that 
assurance, particularly as he continued to receive  demands for various  payments.
Mr H says that he didnt  use his car in November  2018 and only for emergency  trips in December 
2018. Mr H asked for confirmation in writing that his insurance was in place, which  he says he didnt 
get until 17 January 2019. So, Mr H was left in an uncertain position for over two and a half months. 
I think that Mr H suffered  distress and inconvenience arising out of Acromas errors. He was
unsure of the status of his insurance, which  meant that he didnt  feel confident to use his car. Some  of 
his exchanges with Acromas were confusing and unhelpful. Considering everything,  I think  fair and 
reasonable compensation  for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience is a total of £400.  If Mr H didnt cash 
the cheque for £100  compensation  and its now expired,  he should return it to Acromas. If Mr H has 
already received compensation of £100, Acromas should pay the balance of £300.
I dont think its necessary to make a separate award  for Mr Hs loss of use of his car. Ive seen 
from Mr Hs exchanges with Acromas  that he was out of the country  for part of November  2018.  
He told our investigator that he had a friend who was able to drive him around when  he didnt feel 
able to use his own car. Mr H has referred  to car hire but he hasnt provided  any detail about that.
Mr H says that when he was looking for insurance in September 2019,  four potential insurers 
increased the premium  because the incident remained on the claims and underwriting exchange 
(CUE). Acromas says that it has removed  the information  from CUE. Acromas should also make 
sure its records  correctly  reflect the incident Mr H reported or remove it from its records completely.
If Mr H paid an increased premium in September 2019 because information about this matter 
was on CUE,  he should ask his insurer  to reconsider the matter. If hes not happy  with the 
outcome of that, he should complain to the insurer in the first instance and may then refer the 
matter to this service.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I intend to direct Acromas
Insurance Company  Limited to:
1.Refund to Mr H any amount he paid in excess of £873.48 for the policy  year September 2018 
to September 2019,  plus interest on any refund at the simple rate of 8% per year,  from the 
date Mr H made any overpayment to the date Acromas makes the payment.
Ref: DRN719221162.Pay Mr H total compensation of £400 in relation  to his distress and inconvenience, taking 
into account any payment  it has already made.
3.Record the incident  from August  2018  correctly in its records.
Ref: DRN7192211