K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold some of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr T has said that 
he accepts my provisional findings.  Sunny  has provided us with some  comments.  
Although I am only summarising here what Sunny  has said,  I have considered its entire 
response carefully before writing this decision.
Sunny has noted  that I have reached  a different outcome to our adjudicator  in respect of 
loan 5. It questions  why, without the evidence that would be shown on Mr Ts bank 
statements, our adjudicator was able to conclude that loan shouldnt have been given.
Sunny has pointed out that Mr T didnt face any arrears on each of his first six loans and 
didnt tell the lender about any financial problems he was facing before any of the loans he 
was given. It says that it calculated  that Mr Ts disposable income  was sufficient for him to 
sustainably make his repayments  on each of the loans. 
Sunny has noted  that there  were  some short breaks in Mr Ts borrowing. It says there were 
breaks of two months between loans 3 and 4, between loans 12 and 13 and between  loans  
14 and 15. It doesnt  think I have taken  account of these in my decision.
Sunny considers that it is artificial  to make creditworthiness  and affordability assessments  
dependent upon the number and frequency of loans that a consumer has taken.  And it says 
this argument  is supported  by the guidance that is given in CONC. And finally  Sunny doesnt  
agree that the number of loans taken by a consumer  necessarily impairs their ability  to take 
other mainstream credit.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so I am not 
persuaded that I should change my provisional  findings.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont think the checks Sunny did before agreeing to 
give loan 5 to Mr T were sufficient. But I didnt  consider I had enough information to show  
that better  checks would  have led the lender to consider that loan to be unsustainable. For 
clarity our adjudicator  thought that Mr Ts pattern of borrowing  in itself should have 
suggested that there was a significant risk that Mr T would be unable to meet his 
repayments on loan 5. I didnt agree with that  whilst I think  that Sunny should have been 
increasingly concerned  at this point, I dont think those concerns would have been great 
enough on their own for the lender to conclude the loan shouldnt have been given. 
Ref: DRN73934412I still think it is reasonable to conclude that theres  a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, indicates  that the lending isnt sustainable.  Im satisfied that point is at loan 6 in this 
case. By then, Mr T had taken out six loans in just over five months and he repaid loan 5 just 
a week before asking  to borrow a substantially larger amount. Mr Ts level of debt with 
Sunny was increasing in what was, in my opinion, an unsustainable manner.
I had noted the short  breaks in Mr Ts borrowing, but dont think  these should have given 
Sunny any confidence that Mr Ts finances had returned to a more stable footing. I dont 
agree that any of the gaps  amounted to two months  in length. The longest gap was around 
six weeks between loans  3 and 4. There was a gap of about five weeks between  loans 14 
and 15. But there was no gap before loan 13  although loan 12 had been repaid by that 
point, loan 11 was still outstanding.
I think its likely that a mainstream lender would look at the number of loans Mr T took from 
Sunny and take a negative view. So, I think its fair that all information about loans 6 
onwards is removed from Mr Ts credit  file. 
Considering everything, I think that the findings  and redress  I set out in my provisional 
decision are fair.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr T after,  and including,  the loan that he 
took on 27 June  2016 (loan  6). So for each of those  loans  Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr T on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loans 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 16 should be removed from Mr Ts credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN73934413my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ts complaint and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73934414EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Elevate  Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr T was given 16 loans by Sunny between January  2016  and July 2017. Each  of the loans was due 
to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mr T generally repaid  the loans  within a few weeks of 
taking them out. Towards the end of the borrowing period Mr T had up to three loans outstanding  at 
the same time. All of Mr Ts loans have been fully repaid  and a summary of his borrowing from Sunny 
is shown as an appendix  to this decision.
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Sunny had been 
wrong to give loans 1 to 4 to Mr T. But he didnt  think Sunny should have  agreed to lend the 
remaining loans. So he asked Sunny to pay Mr T some compensation.
Sunny didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr T could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr T 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN73934415Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr T. It asked him for details of his income,  and his normal 
expenditure. And it checked his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a summary of those 
checks and I dont  think  they showed anything that should  have caused additional concerns  to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier  each  of Mr Ts loans was repayable over a six month period. So the amounts 
that Mr T needed to repay each time were  smaller than if hed taken  a normal payday loan. But of 
course he was committing to making those  repayments  over a far longer period.  And at times Mr T 
had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to consider the total amount  that Mr T 
needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think  the fact that Mr T typically repaid  his loans much earlier  than planned should  have caused 
some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was 
facing problems  managing  their money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis. So Ive 
also taken that into account  when looking at whether  Sunny  should have given  the loans to Mr T.
I think  that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first four loans were  proportionate.  The amounts 
that Mr T needed to repay were small  compared  with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances at the time, and his 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable  before 
agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr T asked for loan 5, that Sunny  should  have realised that it couldnt safely 
rely on the information  he was providing  about his finances. I think it should  have taken  steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Ts true financial  position. We asked Mr T for copies of his bank 
statements so we could  see what better checks would  have shown Sunny. He didnt  provide these to 
us. So Im not currently able to say that better checks would  have shown  Sunny that it shouldnt have 
given loan 5 to Mr T.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mr T I think by loan 6 the lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should have  realised  that it shouldnt  provide  further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Ts sixth loan request in just over five months. Each of the loans Mr T had 
taken had been repayable over a period of six months. But Mr T regularly  paid those loans off 
far earlier than planned,  but borrowed  increased  amounts very shortly afterwards. I think that 
pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny  that Mr T 
was most  likely having significant problems managing  his money. 
When Mr T asked  for loan 6 he wasnt making  any inroads to the amount he owed the lender. 
Loan 6 was by far the largest loan hed taken  to date. 
Ref: DRN73934416Towards the end of his borrowing period Mr T had multiple loans active  at the same  time. So 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ts 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think  that Mr T lost out because  Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards  
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ts indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ts ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
I have seen that Sunny  has said that Mr Ts declared  income compared to his monthly  repayment 
suggests these loans were  suitable. Therefore it does not accept  the loans provided were 
unaffordable. But Sunny  will know  from previous  decisions (as well as whats set out on our website)  
that there are cases  where this service considers the overall lending  pattern and not just the 
affordability of each  loan. When a consumer borrows  numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans  arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny will have seen, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs  of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think  thats the case here.
So I dont currently think Sunny should  have  agreed to lend to Mr T from loan 6 onwards. Sunny  
needs to pay Mr T some  compensation .
Summary of Mr Ts Borrowing from Sunny
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 05/01/2016 20/01/2016 £        750
2 01/02/2016 19/02/2016 £        800
3 20/02/2016 18/03/2016 £        950
4 01/05/2016 20/05/2016 £     1,200
5 23/05/2016 20/06/2016 £     1,000
6 27/06/2016 20/09/2016 £     1,500
7 29/09/2016 13/10/2016 £     1,250
8 27/10/2016 18/11/2016 £        950
9 23/11/2016 20/12/2016 £        850
10 20/12/2016 20/01/2017 £        750
11 24/01/2017 31/05/2017 £        950
12 24/02/2017 20/03/2017 £        100
13 11/05/2017 31/05/2017 £        350
14 19/05/2017 31/05/2017 £        250
15 09/07/2017 26/08/2017 £        500
16 20/07/2017 26/08/2017 £        400
Ref: DRN7393441