K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained about the way Capital  One (Europe) plc responded to her request for 
assistance when  she was having  difficulty making  the payments due on her credit card.
background
In late 2016 Miss C contacted Capital One about  the payments on her credit card. She was 
expecting a baby  and also needed to have surgery for another condition.  She said she was 
going to be in difficulty making the monthly payments due on her credit card. Capital One 
said she would need to complete an income and expenditure form so it could assess how 
much she could afford to pay. Miss C says she completed the form and returned it to Capital 
One but it wasnt received. 
During the period from January 2017 to July 2017 Miss C didnt pay the minimum monthly 
payments on her credit card. In August 2017  Capital One wrote to Miss C to say she had 
permanently lost the use of her card.  It also said the account would default two months later.
Miss C contacted Capital  One and, initially, she was told she could make  reduced payments 
of £85 per month and continue to use her card. However, Capital One then told her this was 
incorrect and the card wouldnt be reinstated.
Miss C complained to Capital and it partially  upheld  her complaint. It apologised for giving 
her incorrect  information  and paid her £50 compensation for the inconvenience this had 
caused. It went on to ask Miss C to telephone  it to talk through her situation.
Miss C wasnt  happy with Capital Ones response  to her complaint and referred it to this 
service. Capital One has subsequently  applied a default to Miss Cs credit file.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Capital One 
had tried to help Miss C during a time of financial difficulty. He thought Capital One had 
written to Miss C about the arrears on her card and hadnt acted unfairly by applying  the 
default.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One had an obligation to treat Miss C fairly  and sympathetically when she got into 
financial difficulty. But Miss C should  have known  that she needed to make the payments on 
her credit card and, it would  affect  her credit  file adversely if she didnt make those 
payments. 
When Miss C telephoned  Capital One in late 2016  she said she hoped to be able to start 
making payments  again to Capital One in March 2017. The adviser  told her what  Capital 
One would  need to agree to a payment plan and that it was possible her account  would go 
Ref: DRN79265212into default. I think it was reasonable for Capital  One to ask Miss C to complete an income 
and expenditure  form so it could assess how much she could afford to pay.
Miss C didnt make any payments to Capital One during January February and March  2017. 
She made payments in the following months  but they were insufficient to clear the arrears. In 
those circumstances,  Im not persuaded Capital  One acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  
it withdrew the card in August  2017.  Capital One has admitted it made  an error when it told 
Miss C it would accept reduced monthly  payments and allow her to keep the card. I 
appreciate this was very frustrating for Miss C but the error was corrected very quickly.
Capital One wrote to Miss C several times informing her of the possibility it would default her 
account. The letters set out the action Miss C needed to take to avoid this happening.  
Miss C didnt take the necessary action.  Im, therefore, satisfied Capital One acted 
reasonably when it applied the default to Miss Cs credit file and didnt treat her unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7926521