K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that MBNA Limited  wont refund credit card transactions  that he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr V told MBNA that he had lost his credit  card in May 2018. He said that he hadnt kept any 
written record  of his personal identification  number (PIN). MBNA told Mr V that the card had 
been used for three payments, totalling  £4,484, since  the date that Mr V said he last used 
his card.  Mr V said he didnt recognise these payments, which  were  for two purchases and 
at a restaurant overseas. Mr V said he was in the UK at the time these transactions were  
carried out.
MBNA investigated but it decided not to refund  the disputed payments. It said that the 
payments had been made using Mr Vs genuine  card and PIN. It couldnt see any point when 
an unknown third party might have learned  the PIN.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He considered there  was sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr V couldnt have made the payments himself.  He thought it was 
more likely than not that Mr V lost his card and PIN at the same time. He didnt think Mr V 
had authorised or consented to the payments. He suggested MBNA should put Mr V back in 
the position he would have been  in had the disputed transactions  not happened.   
MBNA disagreed. Whilst it accepted that Mr V couldnt have made the payments himself, it 
still couldnt see how Mr Vs PIN had been  compromised.  It thought  it was likely that Mr V 
gave his card to someone else to use.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to Mr V 
and MBNA  on 13 March 2020.  I summarise my findings:
MBNA can hold Mr V liable for the disputed payments if the evidence  suggests its more 
likely than not that he made or authorised them.
I accepted that Mr V couldnt have carried out the transactions personally. He had 
provided evidence  to show that he was in the UK at the time. MBNA also accepted that 
Mr V didnt  carry out the disputed transactions himself. 
I was satisfied from the evidence MBNA provided that whoever made  the transaction 
had both the genuine card and PIN. MBNA  has shown that Mr Vs genuine card was 
used for all the transactions, as the chip embedded on the card was read in each case. 
And the correct PIN was entered  each  time without any failed attempts.
The relevant  regulations  to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for MBNA to 
hold Mr V liable,  just because his genuine  card and PIN were used.
Mr V said that he didnt keep a written record of his PIN. He thought  someone  could 
have seen him enter his PIN when he last used the card and then pickpocketed him. But 
Mr V said his card was kept in his wallet with other  cards.  I didnt think  this had 
happened because  the MBNA card was the only one missing.  If he had been 
Ref: DRN77194142pickpocketed then I thought it likely that his wallet, with the other cards,  would have been 
taken.
Mr V used  the card himself for a contactless transaction  just under an hour after he used 
it for the payment that required him to enter his PIN. I thought  it unlikely that, if someone 
had managed to note Mr Vs PIN after he last entered  it, they would follow him around 
until they had an opportunity to take the card.
If an unknown third party had somehow  managed  to take the card I would  have expected 
them to use it as soon  as possible,  rather than risk Mr V noticing  it had gone.  The first 
disputed transaction  didnt  take place until four days after Mr V last used the card 
himself.
I didnt think it likely  that someone  Mr V knew had taken the card. Mr V had travelled 
together with his family both ways.
Mr V reported the card as lost two days  after he returned home and just half an hour 
after it was used  for the third disputed transaction. There  were  no further attempts to use 
the card. If an unknown person  had taken Mr Vs card then they wouldnt know that the 
card had been cancelled and I would  expect them to continue  to try to use it until it was 
declined.
I thought it more likely than not that Mr V had consented to the payments by allowing  
someone else, known  to him, to use his card.
Subject to any further representations from Mr V or MBNA, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold the complaint. On balance, I didnt think  it was unreasonable  for MBNA  to 
conclude that Mr V authorised or consented  to the transactions.
MBNA said it had nothing further  to add.
Mr V disagreed. In summary, he said that the disputed transactions were  out of the usual 
pattern of his spending and, as such,  MBNAs fraud systems should have flagged up and 
contacted him about them. He also said that Chip and PIN fraud was common where a 
device is used on a machine to read or capture the data from the card whilst someone 
behind notes the PIN. He suggests that it is normal for the bank to refund the amounts 
unlawfully taken.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr Vs card was cloned by being  read by a device in a machine where  he used 
it. I say this because Im satisfied that all the transactions were made using Mr Vs genuine  
card with the correct  PIN. The banks records indicate that the chip embedded in the card 
was read when the transactions were made, rather than the magnetic stripe  on the card. 
Whilst the magnetic  stripe  can be copied  relatively easily,  the same  cant  be said of the chip 
in a card.
Whilst I have considered Mr Vs point  about  whether the bank ought to have flagged or 
stopped these transactions I dont think that would have resulted in a different outcome.
Ref: DRN77194143In my opinion the most likely explanation  for what has happened in this case is that Mr V let 
someone else use his card.  In the circumstances  it wouldnt be fair to require MBNA to make 
a refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7719414