K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent information  to her ex-husband 
(Mr H) and made further contact with him incorrectly, following reassignment  of an 
endowment policy from him to her by court order.
background
Under a court order originally dated  June  2015  the proceeds of the endowment policy were 
reassigned from Mr H to Ms K in July 2015.  
Aviva had previously been  writing  to Ms K correctly about this policy.  However  when the 
policy was due to mature in July 2018,  Aviva didnt contact her  but wrote  to Mr Hs address 
twice in May and June  2018 with details of how to claim the funds.
When Ms Ks representative  (who  shares  the same last name  as Mr H) complained about 
this, Avivas complaint  handler mistakenly  contacted  Mr H to acknowledge the complaint. 
And it didnt  respond  to a subject access request the representative made  in late June 2018 
under the Data  Protection Act. And when he attempted to follow  this up, Aviva  told him it was 
unable to speak  to him as it did not have  his details recorded on the policy.
Aviva wrote to Ms K directly to explain  the process for requesting a subject access  request 
on 29 June. Aviva acknowledged a subject access request  on 26 July (to Ms K directly) and 
recorded her representatives  details on the policy on 9 August after she completed a letter  
of authority.  
In its first response to the complaint Aviva apologised for not updating the address on the 
policy to Ms Ks, but suggested  this was because it hadnt received a specific request to 
update the address, at the time of reassigning the policy. It offered £150 compensation 
nevertheless. When Ms Ks representative highlighted to Aviva  that it should  also have 
changed the address at the time of the reassignment,  it agreed.  It increased its total offer to 
£250 and combined cheques to this value were posted to Ms K.
Ms Ks representative didnt agree  this was enough  and brought  the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  He said he wanted  us to take action against Aviva.
 
Initially, one of our investigators  didnt  think Aviva should pay any more  compensation. In 
summary, he said:
-Aviva  hadnt been given  an opportunity to address any complaint about a delay  in 
responding to the subject access request.
-This service doesnt formally determine if data protection legislation has been  
breached. We also werent in a position to take action against Aviva in the manner  
suggested, as that was the role of the industry regulator (FCA) or the Information 
Commissioner.
-However Aviva had accepted there  was a data breach, and we could consider the 
upset caused  by Aviva releasing information  which Mr H shouldnt have received.
-He would have  suggested an increase to Avivas  original offer if it had not already 
done so itself. £250 was now broadly the right amount.
-There was no evidence that Mr H attempted to obtain the funds but if this had 
happened, wed have expected it to cover any losses  incurred by Ms K. We couldnt 
award compensation for something that hadnt happened.
-The error was rectified and the maturity was dealt with promptly once this came  to 
light. So Ms K knew she wouldnt suffer a loss relatively quickly. 
Ref: DRN71180142Ms Ks representative didnt agree.  He highlighted that Aviva had acknowledged the 
complaint incorrectly to Mr H, and he himself had to get back  in touch with Mr H in view of 
what had happened. Ms K suffers from poor health  which had been exacerbated by this 
further contact between him and her ex-husband, given they hadnt parted on good terms.
The investigator agreed to reconsider what Ms Ks representative had said and decided that 
the amount Aviva  had offered for the upset caused was still too low. He told Aviva that whilst 
the maturity was subsequently  correctly paid out, for some time Ms K wouldnt have known 
this would be the case. And uncomfortable  memories from the past had to be relived. He 
recommended Aviva  pay Ms K a further  £125, bringing the total awarded to £375. He 
considered this was fair overall  bearing  in mind  that it wasnt this services role to punish or 
fine Aviva  for a data breach, as set out above.
Ms Ks representative didnt accept the investigators revised  view.  He re-emphasized  that 
Ms Ks health problems  originated from her past relationship  with Mr H, and have 
deteriorated as a result of Avivas actions. He offered to provide further medical evidence of 
her circumstances from the past if this was required.
The investigator shared  the representatives  comments with Aviva  as it hadnt responded to 
his view. It said it would agree  with the increase in compensation to a total of £375, but as it 
was unclear what compensation would satisfy  Ms K and her representative it would prefer 
for an ombudsman to state whether  any further  amount should be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its difficult to explain  why Aviva was able to write  to Ms K correctly on this policy for some 
years but then reverted  to writing to the former  policy  owner, Mr H. That suggests that at one 
point some settings had been  changed, contrary to what Aviva  says about failing to update  
the address. But either way, Aviva clearly  failed to make a lasting change to the address  (or 
change all the possible places address  details  had been saved). 
That triggered the maturity statements to go to Mr H, which  I agree was unacceptable given 
the clear terms of the court  order and mandate given to change the ownership of the policy.  
There should have  been no need  for Aviva  to have contact with Mr H once this had 
happened and it was wrong  to state  in its initial  response  to the complaint that it needed 
anything further  to justify changing the address on its systems. Im pleased to see Aviva  
promptly agreed it was wrong to suggest  otherwise, and increased  the amount of 
compensation it was offering as a result.
As the investigator  has explained, its not my role to make findings on whether the Data 
Protection Act has been breached or to fine Aviva. The Information Commissioner can 
consider the possibility of a fine, but I note that Avivas file indicates  it has promptly  recorded 
the breach in line with its company procedures  so that wouldnt necessarily result in a fine. 
Ms Ks representative can raise  this matter with the Information Commissioner  if he wishes 
to do so but I believe hes aware that any fine will not be payable to Ms K. 
Instead this service can make a specific award  to Ms K purely  in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered as a result of Avivas  actions  in this case. So Ive considered 
Ref: DRN71180143the impact of what Aviva has done on Ms K as the complainant, rather than the wider  issues 
that might  have caused this to happen.
Mr Hs receipt  of the maturity quotation
Mr H doesnt appear  to have reacted to the maturity quotation by requesting the policy be 
paid out to him (and Aviva is adamant that its manual  checks  would never have  allowed  this 
to happen). However I have considered that for a period of a few weeks  between  late May 
and early June 2018  Ms K would have  worried that this could happen.  I dont underestimate 
the amount of worry this might have caused.
I appreciate the comments Ms Ks representative  has made about her poor health, and this 
incident bringing up distressing memories. I can see that this wasnt initially  apparent  to the 
investigator, which is why he increased his proposed award after speaking  to the 
representative. However its apparent that he didnt  consider this case  warranted a 
substantial award, which  we would class as over £500.
Although I know Ms K and her representative will be disappointed  to hear this, I think  the 
investigator was broadly  right with his recommendation and Im not going to award a higher 
amount than £375 in total. Ive taken into account  in particular  that whilst  having  to raise this 
issue with Aviva herself would have  been very difficult  for Ms K, and added to her distress,  
she has been assisted  throughout by a representative. 
I appreciate that any contact that had to be made  with Mr H  even through Ms Ks 
representative  would  have been distressing  for her. But I also need to bear in mind that the 
amount of information  Mr H became aware of as result of Avivas actions was minimal. For 
instance, Mr H would  likely have had a reasonable idea already of the maturity  value  of the 
policy, and none  of Ms Ks personal  information  appears to have been revealed  in the 
maturity letters. 
So the specific circumstances  in which Avivas error took place wouldnt in my view warrant 
a substantial award being made for Ms Ks distress; notwithstanding the complicating factors 
of her ill health and past relationship with Mr H. And so whilst I note her representatives  
offer to look into her past medical  records, Im not satisfied theres  going  to be a benefit to 
anyone here by going into this in more detail.
complaint handling
As a result of Mr H still showing as the policyholder on Avivas systems,  it appears Avivas 
computer system defaulted to logging a complaint from Mr H when Ms K and her 
representative made contact on 13 June. Some confusion may also have originated  from 
Ms Ks representative having the same  surname as Mr H when he was noted as the caller.
Nevertheless, Avivas records show Mr Hs contact details were promptly  replaced with 
Ms Ks on Avivas  systems that day.
However it appears Aviva then made  a standard telephone call to acknowledge the 
complaint on 15 June (prior to sending an acknowledgement letter), and the member of staff 
believed they still needed to contact  Mr H. The notes of the call indicate  the existence  of a 
complaint was disclosed to Mr H and the call handler identified that the address details on 
the system now didnt  match what they were being  told was Mr Hs address. So they took a 
new note of his address  (which had already been overwritten on Avivas  system) and agreed  
to send a complaint acknowledgement letter  to this address.
Ref: DRN71180144Aviva maintains no correspondence was actually issued to Mr H other than the maturity 
letters, so Ive looked into this further. I can see that within  an hour and a half of this call the 
original staff member from 13 June was asked  to clarify whether she had spoken  to Mr H or 
Ms K/her representative. She confirmed that the complaint  was from Ms K and that was why 
she had changed  the address, as Ms K was the policy owner.
On the evidence available Im satisfied  that Aviva  identified its mistake after calling Mr H but 
before writing to him again. Clearly the phone  call to Mr H should not have happened and 
originated from a very specific  and unfortunate set of events. But if the policy maturity letters 
themselves created the possibility Mr H might try to claim on the policy,  I dont think  the 
added phone call significantly exacerbated this. If anything, it might have alerted him that 
Aviva was now aware that there  were  some problems with how it was administering the 
policy and would be getting to the bottom of those problems.
subject access request
The investigator explained that Aviva  hadnt had had an opportunity to look into the 
complaint that it hadnt responded with the subject access request to Ms Ks representative. 
There is a letter on file acknowledging this request to Ms K directly,  so I think its possible 
Ms K received the response rather than her representative. 
So this may not be an issue   as I can see why Aviva would have been able to speak to the 
representative on the phone (in Ms Ks presence) but couldnt write to him until Ms K had 
completed a letter of authority. However  if neither Ms K nor her representative have received 
a reply to their subject  access request they are at liberty to raise this with Aviva as a 
separate complaint. Depending on the issues involved it may be more appropriate for that 
complaint to be considered by the Information Commissioner.
my final decision
Ive decided that Aviva made a serious  error  in not updating the address  details  on this 
policy to Ms Ks, and inadvertently making further contact with Mr H at the time of the 
complaint. Considering the impact that this has had on Ms K I agree with the investigator 
that Avivas existing offer of £250 was insufficient. I require  Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay Ms K £375 compensation in total, meaning a further  payment of £125 if the 
two previous cheques  have  been banked.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118014