K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr B complained that Dial4aloan Limited mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when they took out a secured  loan in 2002.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case and told Mrs and Mr B that because this PPI 
policy was sold prior to insurance being  covered by us, we can only look at certain  aspects 
of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint because they werent  persuaded 
such a breach of the rules, in force at the time, had occurred. 
Mrs and Mr B asked  for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive seen a few similar sales  to this one. My understanding of them  is that there was an initial 
telephone conversation where the loan was discussed and the option  to have PPI was put to 
the consumer(s). The relevant paperwork was then drawn up as a result of that conversation  
and then sent to the consumer(s) to check, agree  and sign.
However, as Ive indicated above, the insurance market only became something we covered 
in its own right on 14 January 2005.  We can look at some complaints about  insurance before 
that date, but only if the complaint related  to something we already covered, or if the 
business was a member  of a former  complaint scheme.
Dial4aloan was a member  of a former complaint scheme, the Mortgage Code Arbitration
Scheme (MCAS). So we can look at complaints about this business, but only in the same  
way MCAS  could. And Im afraid this is a relatively restricted remit, compared with todays 
standards.
For example, the only specific obligations  the Mortgage Code placed on Dial4aloan when 
selling the policy in question were those  requirements that specifically refer to insurance. 
That is, those set out in section 3.2 of the Code:
When providing information to help you to choose . we will give you the following:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility  it is to ensure that it is taken  out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
us;
Ref: DRN77253142A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums);
The business hasnt  been able to provide  a call recording of the telephone call in this case, 
but given how long ago this was that isnt unusual.  But it did send us the credit  agreement 
that was signed by Mrs and Mr B.
I note the PPI was described on the agreement  quite prominently as Optional  Payment  
Protection Insurance Premium  and it showed the overall cost of the loan both with and 
without PPI. 
Looking at the points above,  Im satisfied the optional  nature was made clear and that a 
description of the costs  was provided.  So I dont  think there was a breach of the Code. 
Having considered the matter carefully,  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725314