K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that as a result  of TSB Bank  plcs IT problems they suffered a great 
deal of stress and worry and lost out on earnings. They want TSB Bank plc to compensate  
them for their stress,  ruined holiday and the loss of earnings.
background
Mr and Mrs T went on a holiday  towards the end of April 2018 (21/4/18   29/4/18). While on 
holiday they became  aware of TSBs IT failures  through the media. Mr and Mrs T had 
transferred two equally large sums  of money  into their TSB current  account from their 
business account shortly  before they went on holiday. They were very anxious about  what 
was happening with their accounts  and about losing  their money. Mr and Mrs T say because 
of the worry this caused them, their holiday was ruined and so was Mrs Ts birthday which 
fell within  their holiday period.
When they returned from their holiday (29 April),  Mr T says he couldnt access the accounts 
online and the telephone  lines were  closed. When Mr T eventually managed to gain access  
the following  day, he noticed  that only one of the large payments was showing. When  he 
eventually got through  to someone on the phone to find out what was happening,  the second  
payment also disappeared from the screen. 
Mr T says he took two days out from work  (30 April and 1 May) so that he could get in 
contact with TSB and find out what was happening with his accounts. He has asked for loss 
of earnings at a rate of £650 per day for these days. Mr and Mrs T have told us that the 
funds that were transferred from their business  account into their personal account were  for 
a new kitchen. Mr T says Mrs T had to take around half a day off work so that she could 
speak in person  to the kitchen suppliers  and ask them to agree a different payment method 
as they couldnt make the payment by transfer  as they had initially agreed because  the 
transferred payments werent showing on the account. Mr T has estimated Mrs Ts loss of 
earnings as £400.
Mr and Mrs T have  also explained that they have continued to have intermittent  trouble 
logging on to online banking,  when  they logged on information disappeared and reappeared 
including payee  details. Mr T says he had to cancel an appointment with his accountant 
because he couldnt  access  the details he needed  for his meeting. 
Our investigator and adjudicator considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  and recommended  
TSB Bank plc compensate them £300  for the trouble and upset  caused  to them. But there 
was no separate  award for loss of earnings. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the 
recommendation and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint to the extent that TSB should pay them  
£300 for the trouble and upset caused  to them. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T will be 
disappointed by this outcome as they were seeking a much  larger  amount for their trouble 
and upset and also compensation for loss of earnings and holiday. However, it is of course  
Ref: DRN73200092up to Mr and Mrs T whether they choose to accept or reject  my decision.  I will now explain 
why Ive reached this outcome.
Mr and Mrs T say that they have  lost out on £1700  worth of earnings  between them because 
of TSB. Although Mr T has explained how much  roughly Mrs T would be paid, I havent  seen 
any evidence of Mrs Ts daily rate. Mr T has provided us with evidence of his daily rate from 
one of his clients.  This shows Mr T charges £650  plus VAT. He explains that his daily rate is 
the same  for all clients. So he says he has lost out on £1300 because  he wasnt  able to work 
for two days. 
Mr T has said that he works full time so he has lost income which  he cant make  up because  
he is already fully committed.  But this explanation  isnt sufficient for me to conclude that TSB 
should pay Mr T two days worth of loss of earnings. Mr T says he cant provide any actual 
evidence which shows that he lost out on two full days  worth of earnings  overall  because  of 
TSB. So all in all, I havent seen sufficient  evidence to persuade me that TSB should pay   
Mr and Mrs T for loss of earnings.
However, I accept that it would have been  inconvenient for Mr T to have to take time out to 
speak with TSB. I also appreciate it must have been inconvenient for Mrs T to take time out 
to agree a different payment method with the kitchen provider. I have taken this into 
consideration when reaching an amount for the trouble and upset  caused  to them.
I understand that Mr and Mrs T werent  able to enjoy their holiday and Mrs Ts birthday 
celebrations because of the worries  surrounding the funds. However,  I have to balance that 
against the fact that Mr and Mrs T werent  prevented  from doing  anything that they wanted  to 
do on their holiday  for example, they could  still access their funds  to buy what they needed  
and travel if they needed to. Although they heard on the media  about  TSBs IT issues  there 
was nothing specific relating to them which would  have  meant  that the funds were not 
available to them. So I dont  think its reasonable to ask TSB to refund Mr and Mrs T the cost 
of the holiday. However, again  I have  taken this into account in considering  the distress 
caused to Mr and Mrs T.
Mr T has mentioned other consequential  financial loss but again I havent seen any evidence 
of this.
So having  taken everything available into consideration - including  the intermittent access  
problems and the issue with the payment to HMRC - I think  £300 is a fair and reasonable 
amount in the particular circumstances of this case for the distress and inconvenience  
caused to Mr and Mrs T. Although this is the same amount that was recommended initially, I 
think this figure still encompasses the totality  of what went  wrong based on the evidence  
available to me.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint to the extent as set out above and require TSB Bank plc 
to pay them  £300  in compensation for the trouble and upset caused to them because of TSB 
Bank plcs IT issues - if they havent done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Ref: DRN73200093Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7320009