K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. He says that it 
misled him about the date when his pension would be payable and that this was a factor  in 
his decision to retire  early.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this decision.
I said that I intended to uphold  this complaint and explained why. I said that Prudential 
should pay Mr M £750.
Prudential accepted the provisional decision and provided a current  valuation  as requested.  
Mr M said that he remained unhappy but accepted the decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given there have been no substantive comments on the provisional  decision, I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions. I uphold this complaint for the reasons given.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Prudential  must pay Mr M £750.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75611742Extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mr M has complained about The Prudential  Assurance Company  Limited. He says that it misled him 
about the date when his pension would  be payable  and that this was a factor in his decision to retire 
early.
background
Mr M has a pension  plan with Prudential. The pension  is a section 32 buy-out bond which  was 
arranged in 1993 when Mr M transferred his pension from his employer. The pension  features a 
guaranteed minimum  pension (GMP).
Mr M was 60 in 2019. He was sent annual  pension statements which  repeatedly said that his 
retirement date was in 2019.
Mr M took early  retirement in 2017 and says that he took that decision in the knowledge  that he would  
have additional income from this pension  at 60 (and not 65).
In early 2019 Prudential wrote to him saying that the retirement date should have been stated as 2024 
(when he was 65).
Prudential has explained  that it cant pay the pension sooner. The pension was arranged to mirror  the 
benefits payable  from the employers scheme and these were payable from 65 (and not 60). It has 
also explained  that the fund value  is not sufficient  to meet the GMP and so it cant make payments 
before age 65.
Prudential accepted that the annual statements included the wrong date and offered Mr M £300 for 
any inconvenience caused.
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an 
investigator. She didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She was satisfied that the correct  
retirement date should have been at 65 in 2024. That was the date in the original application. A 
redress payment  had also been made based on retirement at 65. But she didnt think  Mr M could  be 
expected to notice the discrepancy when all the statements gave the date as 2019. However, she 
said that the plan itself didnt  allow for early payment as the fund wasnt sufficient  to meet  the GMP.  
She wasnt prepared to say that Prudential  should make any earlier  payment in these circumstances. 
She felt that its offer to pay £300 for any inconvenience caused was fair.
Mr M didnt agree and so the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided  to uphold  this complaint and so Ive made  this 
provisional decision.
Im satisfied that this pension  plan was arranged  with a retirement  age of 65. This would  have 
mirrored the original employers  scheme. The redress payment made  to the plan in 2001 was also 
calculated based on a retirement age of 65. So I dont think it would be fair to direct that Prudential 
should now make any payments to Mr M based on any other  retirement  age.
However, Mr M was repeatedly sent annual statements which set out a retirement  age of 60 which fell 
in 2019. I can understand that he would  have  relied upon these documents  as being  accurate.
Ref: DRN75611743So Im satisfied that Mr M was misled. Where  someone has been misled, the appropriate remedy is to 
place them in the position they would  be in if they hadnt been given incorrect information  rather  than 
in the position they would be in if the incorrect information  were true.
Mr M says that the availability of this pension  at 60 was a factor in his decision to retire early. I accept  
what he says about that and can understand  that it would have influenced his financial planning. But 
what I need  to consider is whether he would have acted differently  if he had known the true position. 
Would he have decided not to retire  early if he had known that he wasnt likely  to receive income  from 
this pension until he was 65?
I cant  know  the answer to that. But, on balance, I think its likely  that he probably  would still have 
retired early  even if he was fully informed and hadnt been misled. The pension statements dont 
appear to have set out the annual income  Mr M could have expected at 60 and hes confirmed that he 
didnt make any direct enquiry of Prudential  before  he retired.  So I dont think that I can safely  
conclude that the income from this pension  was pivotal in his decision making process. And also,  
there were other motivations  to retire early  including  the experience of his brothers death at a similar 
age.
So whilst I can fully accept  that Mr Ms belief that he would have another  income stream at 60 was a 
factor in his decision making, Im not satisfied that it was a decisive factor. I dont think he would have 
made a different decision if fully informed.
However, I dont think that Prudentials offer to pay £300 for distress and inconvenience  fully takes 
into account  the impact  of its errors. Mr M was misled  repeatedly and the fact that the pension is not 
payable until 65 will obviously impact on him for an extended period, possibly five years.  So Im 
currently minded  to make  an award of £750 to reflect  the trouble and upset caused.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Prudential  should pay Mr M £750.
This is my provisional decision and may change depending on the response I receive.
When responding  can Prudential please confirm  whether or not the pension fund is now sufficient  to 
make any payment before 31 March 2020.
Ref: DRN7561174