K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold  a monthly  premium mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, Santander UK Plc (Santander) have 
taken responsibility  for the sale and so to keep things simple, I have only referred  to 
Santander in this decision.
background
Mr D was sold a MPPI  policy in 1989 in connection  with a mortgage.
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  if Mr D was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate  that Mr D will be 
disappointed by this outcome but it is of course up to Mr D whether he accepts or rejects my 
decision. I will now explain why Ive reached  this outcome.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr D was eligible  under the policy.  Based on Mr Ds age 
and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr D that the MPPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to Mr Ds account.  Mr  D says that he believed  he had to take the 
MPPI as part of/on top of the mortgage. He says he also believed he had to continue paying  
it as long as the mortgage  was outstanding.
Santander no longer have  a copy of the application form from the time of the sale.  This is 
understandable given  the length of time since the sale. But it does mean  that I cant  see how 
the policy was presented  to Mr D during  the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what Mr D 
and Santander  have told us and used  my understanding of the sales  process at the time of 
the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
My understanding of the sales process  is that Mr D would have been asked if he wanted  
MPPI and would have  needed to complete a separate application form for it as well as a 
separate direct debit  mandate if he wanted to take it out. Mr D has told us that he thought 
MPPI was compulsory but he hasnt provided sufficient information to explain why he 
thought it was compulsory and what happened  during the sale for him to believe this was the 
case. Again  this is understandable given the length of time since  the sale. However, as 
MPPI wasnt a compulsory product, I havent  seen  sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr D 
wasnt given a choice  about it. I also note that Mr D says he believed he had to continue 
Ref: DRN73063982paying for MPPI  while  the mortgage was outstanding. But I note that this mortgage was 
redeemed in 2000 but the policy wasnt cancelled until 2014.
So all in all, I cant say its more  likely  that the MPPI was presented  as compulsory or that  
Mr D didnt choose to take it out.
I think Santander advised Mr D to take MPPI. This means they had to take adequate steps 
to ensure it was suitable for him. I dont know if Santander did take all of the steps they 
should have to check if the MPPI was suitable  for Mr D but I do think the policy  was suitable 
for him. I say this because:
-Mr D has told us he was entitled to employee benefits. But the MPPI would have paid 
out in addition to this and for a much longer period of time. The policy booklet that 
our adjudicator relied upon set out the monthly  benefit as continuing for up to 12 
months per claim. The policy booklet  that Mr D has provided us with shows  an even 
longer benefit  period (18 months).
-I appreciate that Mr D says he hadnt had time off work sick and the policy wouldnt 
start paying out until 60 days of sickness. But the point of the policy  was to protect  
Mr D in case he did unexpectedly  fall sick or lose his job. The MPPI was protecting a 
valuable asset  and so could have  been  of use to Mr D given the amount of time the 
policy would have  paid out for.
-Mr D didnt appear to have been  affected  by the terms in the policy  which would have 
made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.  Ive considered 
both of the policy booklets.
-The benefit of the policy outweighed its costs. I appreciate what  Mr D has said about 
the cost of the mortgage and the additional cost of the MPPI  but I havent seen any 
actual evidence that the MPPI itself was unaffordable to Mr D. 
-Mr D could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted  or needed it. As Ive already mentioned, the mortgage  was redeemed 
in 2000 but Mr D didnt cancel the policy until 2014 although he was aware  that it 
existed. 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr D, Santander also had to give him 
clear information about the MPPI   in particular about the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed decision about  whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr D wasnt as clear  as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether  
better information would  have  put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons  I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr D this 
MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN73063983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7306398