K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) regarding; a disputed  chargeback request, disputed direct  debits, and a block 
placed on his card.
background
I wont repeat the adjudicators entire background summary because it covers  the issues and 
I want to avoid repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because  Ive ignored it, 
but because I dont think its relevant to the issues.  For the avoidance of doubt, Mr H has 
levelled criticism  against various  other  businesses but for the present  purposes I am only 
concerned with the complaint he has made against Nationwide.
First, Mr H is unhappy with the service he received regarding a disputed purchase he made 
for a microwave. He raised a chargeback claim with Nationwide and they accepted  the 
service they subsequently  provided  to him fell short. Nationwide  apologised for this poor 
service and in recognition  of that they paid Mr H £75 in compensation, and which  they 
credited to his account. Mr H was also refunded with the full purchase price of the 
microwave under the chargeback scheme.
Mr H also disputed some  direct  debit payments which had been made from his account in 
2017. Nationwide investigated and provided  him with a full credit for the disputed  amounts. 
But as there  was a delay  in responding to Mr H, Nationwide also offered to pay £50 in 
compensation. Mr H didnt accept that.
In March and May 2018 Nationwide blocked payments Mr H had made to a merchant. 
Nationwide said the reason they did that was because  they suspected a fraud was being  
attempted on Mr Hs account. As it turned out it wasnt an attempted  fraud and so 
Nationwide apologised for the inconvenience  to Mr H explaining  that it had taken that action 
to protect  his interests.
Mr H was unhappy with Nationwide s response and so an adjudicator  from this service 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  Nationwide  had acted unfairly. As Mr H didnt 
agree, the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether Nationwide acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt 
with Mr H. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable  outcome has been achieved,  which  
means taking into account both Nationwides view and that of Mr H. I do not perform the role 
of the industry  regulator, and nor do I have  the power to make  rules for financial businesses,  
punish them,  or direct that they change  their processes. That falls under the remit of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court  service.  
I can see that Mr H feels  very strongly about this complaint  as he has written passionately 
and in some  detail about the issues. Much of what he has said however does not relate to 
the current complaint  issues against Nationwide. 
Ref: DRN79589952As I see matters, there are three  areas  of complaint against Nationwide.  The first relates to 
the chargeback  claim. Here Mr H was successful with the claim and it is good to see he got 
all his money back. The only issue therefore is the service he received from Nationwide 
which fell short of their usual level of service. Nationwide have acknowledged that and paid 
compensation to Mr H in the sum of £75. I have thought about this sum and I think that this 
is reasonable. It is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this, and I think it is fair and enough  to put matters  right 
on this particular issue.
The second  area of complaint relates  to the direct  debits. The evidence shows  that there 
were direct debits set up on Mr Hs account and two separate merchants  activated  them  
between March and August  2017. Once  again Nationwide  have made sure Mr H got his 
money back and so thankfully  he is not out of pocket. But I cant say Nationwide  have done 
anything wrong  here in allowing those  direct debits to go out. Nationwide did acknowledge 
their service  wasnt  as it should have  been since there was a delay in responding to Mr H, 
and they offered him £50 for the distress and upset that would  have caused.  I have  given 
this offer some thought  too, and I also think that this is fair and reasonable. 
The final area of complaint  relates to the block put on Mr Hs card. Nationwide accept they 
blocked the card and have explained why they did so. It is always going  to be frustrating  for 
any banks customer to have their card blocked, but unfortunately fraud  is a big problem in 
the financial world,  and it is reasonable to expect  banks to have in place measures and 
systems to prevent such  attempts. I can accept that the motivation behind the blocking of the 
card was to protect  Mr H and so I cant say Nationwide have acted unfairly  in this instance.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I do not think Nationwide have acted unfairly in 
the way it has dealt with Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint in respect of the chargeback  
claim or the blocking of Mr Hs card. Nationwide has already  made  an offer to pay £50 to 
settle the complaint regarding the direct debits and I think  this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision  is that Nationwide Building Society  should  pay £50 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7958995