K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) unsuitably advised  them  to invest in 
a Personal Investment Plan (PIP) in 2007. Mr and Mrs Rs complaint has been brought by a 
representative, but for ease Ill refer to them throughout.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs R were retired, with pension income which left them with a moderate  
monthly surplus after expenditure. They had a little under £39,000 in various savings deposit 
accounts.
BoS recommended they invest £30,000  in its Managed Income Fund through  PIPs.  It said 
this investment was suitable given their cautious/medium attitude to risk and would enable  
them to meet their longer term objectives of boosting their lifestyle  through  additional 
income. Mr and Mrs R withdrew about half their investment after a year,  and cashed the rest 
in in 2012.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs R complained about  the advice theyd been given. They said they didnt 
think they should have been  advised to take so much risk given  theyd not invested before, 
and that the recommendation tied up too much of their money in risk based investments.
BoS partly  agreed. It said Mr and Mrs R shouldnt have invested  so much, but thought the 
Managed Income  Fund was suitable  for them. It offered  compensation on the basis  that 
theyd invested  £15,000 in it instead,  and compared  the other half of their investment to the 
performance of fixed rate bonds.
One of our investigators  looked into things, and concluded that the offer BoS had made  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs R was fair. She said it was broadly in line with the way shed have 
looked to put things  right had no offer been made.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree this was fair compensation, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They said that even half their money  being invested in the Managed Income  Fund 
was too much, and BoS should compensate them for their whole investment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
All parties  appear  to agree BoS gave  Mr and Mrs R unsuitable advice. The issue in dispute  
is how it ought to put things  right. In other  words,  what is fair compensation for that 
unsuitable advice?
BoS argues that it would have been  suitable to advise Mr and Mrs R to invest  half their 
money in the same  fund, and have put them in the position theyd have been  in had they left 
the rest in deposit based accounts by comparing their return to that of fixed  rate bonds. Mr 
and Mrs R think they shouldnt have been  advised  to take even that much  risk.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances and objectives, Im satisfied they were  willing  and 
able to take some risk with their money  in 2007. They had a monthly income  surplus and a 
lot of money on deposit. While theyd  not invested before, that doesnt mean no risk based  
Ref: DRN70656882recommendation would have been suitable  at all. I say this because exposing  some of their 
money to some risk would  have given them the opportunity to achieve greater returns  than 
simply leaving their money in savings accounts.
While I agree that Mr and Mrs Rs answers to the risk questionnaire indicated they werent 
excessive risk takers, I think they expressed  a willingness to take a little risk to achieve 
better returns. I dont  think they were completely risk averse.  And as Ive said I think their 
financial position was such that they could afford  to take some  risk with their money.
So I agree with both BoS and Mr and Mrs R that putting £30,000  of their money into the 
Managed Income  Fund was taking an unsuitable  risk with so much of their available  funds.  
Ordinarily Id have  recommended  BoS compare their investment to a 50/50 mixture  of fixed  
rate bonds  and the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. This is the 
benchmark wed usually  use to establish fair compensation for investors who were  cautious, 
but willing to take some risk.
In these particular  circumstances, Im satisfied  that what BoS has proposed is, while  slightly  
different, also a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr and Mrs R. Theyve compared 
half their money to fixed rate bonds, as I would have suggested. And the Managed  Income 
Fund, in which  the rest of their money was invested,  is made  up of broadly similar assets 
and funds as the FTSE Index Id have said to use. So broadly speaking,  I think  BoSs offer 
puts Mr and Mrs R in the same position  as the remedy Id have  chosen.  I therefore dont 
think it needs to do anything more to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer Bank of Scotland plc has made  to settle this complaint is 
fair and reasonable. I direct it to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs R as set out in its final 
response of 1 April 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7065688