K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr D says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make  Mr D aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding it 
to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  and theres  
limited information available. But this isnt unusual considering how long ago the sale took 
place and that HSBC arent required to keep this type of information  indefinitely. From what 
is available I dont have  enough to say HSBC didnt present the policy  as optional, or that 
Mr D didnt choose to take it.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr D 
has told us he would  have  received  sick pay when  he took the policy and had some  savings 
to help him make his repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to, and longer  
than Mr Ds sick pay. It would also have allowed him to keep his savings in place to be used 
towards other essential expenses he may have  had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN72276772what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr D any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr D the difference between  
what Mr D owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr D 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7227677