K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Based on what we know  about  how Bank  of Scotland sold PPI at the time, I think Bank of 
Scotland made  it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover. Although he had some sick pay and savings, 
the MPPI wouldve paid out on top of this for up to 24 months. This is longer than his sick 
pay and savings  wouldve  lasted.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for he if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - including what  he has said about being  told 
that taking the MPPI would improve his chances  of getting the mortgage. But these points 
dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr T paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr T back some  
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Bank of 
Scotland has already paid this to Mr T.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7423261