K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Contis Financial Services Limited (Contis) refused to raise  a 
chargeback in relation to an item she bought  from a third party company (the company).
background
Miss O used  her prepaid debit card to make  an online purchase.  She says that the item was 
not received from the company.
Miss O says the company told her the item was delivered. However, she says that the 
signature used to confirm  receipt doesnt match hers. She also says she was staying at a 
hotel in a different city on the day of delivery.  For this reason Miss O requested  a 
chargeback from Contis.
Contis contacted  the company and were  advised  the item had been  delivered to Miss Os 
correct address and signed for. Contis were  of the opinion that in delivering  the item, the 
company had provided its services. For this reason they thought  there was little chance of a 
chargeback being successful  and refused her request.
Miss O was unhappy with Contis decision not to pursue a chargeback in relation  to the item 
she says she never  received. So she brought her complaint to our service.
In the absence of any information  received from Contis, our investigator initially  thought they 
should compensate  Miss O for the value of the item plus pay interest.  However, in his letter  
the investigator invited  Contis  to provide  a response  if they disagreed with his opinion. Our 
investigator also made it clear to Miss O that if Contis did respond with information,  he might 
change his conclusion.  
After a number of requests from our investigator, Contis  did respond and provided 
supporting information that led to him changing  his conclusions. Our investigator  wrote to 
both Miss O and Contis explaining that he thought  that Contis had acted within  the scope of 
the chargeback  scheme and in the circumstances he couldnt  ask them to do anything more.
Miss O disagreed and so her case has come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right to 
make a chargeback  claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and if theres  a reasonable 
chance of success   I consider it to be good  practice  for a chargeback claim to be made. 
For this reason Ive specifically looked at the actions of Contis, and whether they correctly 
refused to raise a chargeback,  and not the actions of the company the item was purchased 
from. I think that Contis acted correctly and didnt need to raise  a chargeback. I appreciate  
this is not the answer Miss O hoped for but I will explain how Ive reached  my decision.
The chargeback scheme  rules are set by the relevant card provider (in this case, Visa). 
This means  that Contis  has no discretion  to change or not apply the rules in any way.
Ref: DRN76396702The relevant  rule in this case is the one relating to services  not received. I have looked at 
the rule and it says that a dispute  may be initiated  if a company was unwilling or unable to 
provide the merchandise or services. In this case the company has shown it delivered the 
item Miss O purchased to the correct address and obtained a signature to confirm delivery. 
This shows me this rule has been  defended at the initial stage because from the evidence  
Ive seen the company successfully delivered the item  so was not unwilling or unable  to do 
so. I therefore think that Contis  didnt act unreasonably by not asking for further information 
from Miss O to support  her chargeback request.
Contis believed there was little chance  of proving the item hadnt been  delivered. The 
evidence Ive seen  from the company shows me it was unlikely  that a chargeback  request 
would have succeeded. For this reason I dont think Contis has acted unfairly in deciding  not 
to proceed with Miss Os chargeback claim.
Miss O has recently provided  emails from Visa Rules  regarding  the chargeback  scheme. But 
Im of the opinion these  emails relate  to the final Arbitration stage of the process  and not the 
initial request  made. As Ive explained  above, I think Contis  were right in not proceeding with 
Miss Os claim for a chargeback because there was little chance of proving the item hadnt  
been delivered. This meant her case couldnt  progress to arbitration stage. But as Im not 
persuaded there have been any errors or that Contis has treated  Miss O unfairly, Im not 
telling them to take any further action.      
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639670