K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy St Andrews Insurance  Plc sold to Ms M.
background
Ms M took out the insurance during a phone call after shed applied for a Halifax personal 
loan in 2009. She paid a monthly amount  for the policy.  It was called Halifax Life Stages 
Repayments Cover and it paid £300  a month if she couldnt work  owing to illness  or injury, 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Ms M mainly says that she wasnt made  aware  that PPI was added to her loan as it wasnt 
ever discussed  and if shed  known about it then she wouldve claimed when she lost her 
job a few years later.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account all 
relevant rules and guidance, as well as the law and good practice at the time of the sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
From what  Ive read and been told, I think its likely that she took out the policy by phone  
probably whilst still in the branch straight  after arranging the loan. Theres no call recording 
available. But Ive taken  into account what this service knows more widely about how 
St Andrews  usually sold this insurance over the phone  around this time. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that St Andrews didnt follow its normal sales  process  here. 
Looking at what Ive been told about  the phone script, this uses  the word optional when 
describing the policy. It shows that the sales advisor  wouldve been prompted to ask if Ms M 
was happy to go ahead and it includes information about the policy cost and benefits. 
It also suggests the call wouldve  probably been made after the loan had been arranged,  so 
Ms M wouldve known she didnt have to take out the cover  in order to get the credit. 
It appears Ms M decided  she wanted the cover when speaking with the advisor on that call. 
I say this because  St Andrews wrote to her shortly afterwards setting out details of the 
insurance shed  chosen showing that Ms M was covered  including what  it would  cost.  This 
letter started off by saying: Thank  you for choosing our optional Halifax Life Stages 
Repayments Cover. It also included information about her right to cancel the policy  if she 
didnt want it. 
The insurance would help protect  Ms Ms financial position if she was made unemployed or if 
she was unwell and unable to work. I think its likely  that, during the phone call, the policy 
was discussed  and Ms M decided she did want the benefits the policy  offered. 
Ref: DRN78449672Taking all this into account, on balance I think that St Andrews made Ms M aware  that she 
had a choice about buying  the insurance.  And it was added to her account when she chose 
to take it.
St Andrews  accepts that it recommended  the insurance to Ms M and from the paperwork 
Ive seen I think thats correct. So it had to check it would be suitable for her. And it seems  to 
have been right for her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.  
Ms M was eligible for the cover.
Ms M tells us she couldve relied  on getting  up to 6 months full sick pay from her employer.  
But I think this insurance still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months 
per claim in the event  of accident and sickness. So it provided better protection  than Ms M 
couldve relied on getting through her employer.  And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay 
providing Ms M with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if she had some extra 
costs as a result of being sick or disabled.   
This insurance wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Ms M lost her 
job and became unexpectedly  unemployed. It wouldve paid more than enough to cover the 
monthly repayments on her loan.  And Ms M couldve made repeated  claims on the policy , 
giving her long term protection over the loan term.
Ms M told us she didnt have any other means  to rely on to make her monthly  repayments  if 
she wasnt working. And shed borrowed the money over quite a long period. So, looking at 
her circumstances at the time, I think the policy  was suitable. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Ms M was affected  
by any of the main  conditions limiting the policys benefits. So I dont think  that knowing more  
about the policy terms and conditions wouldve put Ms M off taking  out this insurance as 
shed have got all the policy benefits she was expecting. 
During the phone  call when the PPI was sold to Ms M, I think St Andrews  wouldve 
explained what the cost of the policy would be. Also, this information was set out in a 
schedule that Ms M was sent shortly  afterwards. If she hadnt wanted to pay for the 
insurance this letter  included information explaining  that she was able to cancel  the 
insurance at any time without losing out financially. As far as Im aware, she didnt take any 
steps to do that at the time.
But it appears that Ms M only paid for the policy for a couple of months  and after that cover  
stopped in accordance with the policy  terms that explain the policy  will terminate when the 
policyholder doesnt pay 2 monthly  premiums in a row. So after July 2009 Ms M wasnt  any 
longer covered by this policy and she wouldnt have been able to make  a claim on it. 
Its possible some of the information  St Andrews gave Ms M about  the policy wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think she still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if shed been 
better informed as it gave  her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it.
 
This means  I dont  think that Ms M has lost out as a result of anything that St Andrews may 
have done wrong.  So it doesnt  need to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN78449673my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7844967