K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  mis-sold  him a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr H took PPI with a charge card in 1997.  The PPI was sold to Mr H by another  firm but Allianz 
has accepted  responsibility for this complaint about  the mis-sale of PPI. So I will refer to the 
seller as Allianz to make  things easier.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld but Mr H didnt agree. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about 
the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a sample  application form and I think its likely the document  Mr H would have 
seen were the same as the sample or similar. To get the cover Mr H would have had to tick 
a box for it and provide some basic personal information. Had Mr H not wanted  the cover  
he could have left this unticked.  And Mr H would have had to sign the application form to 
show he agreed with its contents. There is nothing in writing  on the application form that 
should have suggested to Mr H that he would get the credit if he took out the cover.  So on 
balance I think that Mr H chose to take the policy and did so knowing he had a choice 
about it, even  if he cant remember  that now, many  years  later.  
Allianz have told us the sale was made  with no advice  given to Mr H, whilst  Mr H thinks he 
was advised to take out the cover.  I dont  need to make a firm finding on this because I dont 
think it makes  a difference to the outcome  of the complaint. 
If it provided advice, Allianz had to sell Mr H something that was suitable for him. Or, if it sold 
the policy without  a tailored recommendation, it had to give Mr H sufficient information to 
make an informed choice  about the policy. 
Looking at Mr Hs circumstances at the time, if advice was given, it seems to have been  right 
for him. For example Mr H was eligible for the policy and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover,  it doesnt  look as though any of those things applied to Mr H at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions.  And he seems to have had 
a need for the cover. Mr H told us that whilst his initial  sick pay was good,  it dropped  
significantly after six months,  such that Mr H may have had to rely on some  savings or on his 
wife for support. But this policy could have paid 15% of the balance until the claim stopped 
or the balance was repaid, whichever  occurred first and that would have been in addition  to 
any sick pay he may have expected to receive.  And the PPI would also have  provided  cover 
if Mr H lost his job. So, I think the policy could have been useful to him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about  the cost of the policy.  But for the same reasons 
Ref: DRN72345172given above that I think  the policy was suitable,  I dont think better  information  would have  
stopped Mr H from taking  out the policy. 
So I think the policy was not unsuitable for Mr H and, whilst the information he received 
could have been better, I dont think that Mr H has lost out as a result of anything Allianz 
might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7234517