K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the end of contract  charges that PSA Finance UK Limited has 
asked her to pay for refurbishing the car she returned when she voluntary terminated a 
conditional sale agreement.
background
In May 2015  Miss G entered into a five year conditional sale agreement with PSA for a used 
car. The car was five years old and had a mileage of 58,500.
In August  2018  Miss G decided she wished to voluntary terminate the agreement  and 
contacted PSA. PSA said that as Miss G had paid at least  half the credit provided  under the 
agreement then there wouldnt be a charge for handing the car back, but that the car must 
be returned in a reasonable  condition . It said if damage was found on the car then it would 
charge the costs of any estimated repairs.
Miss G arranged  to return the car in October 2018.  She says she was aware that the spare 
key wasnt handed  back and expected to be charged £100 for that to be replaced. However, 
a few weeks later, Miss G received an invoice from PSA for £1166 which it said was for 
damage found on the car that was outside  fair wear and tear. Miss G challenged the amount 
of the invoice and asked  for cars condition report and evidence of the damage.
Miss G then says she received a default  notice  that there was an outstanding  amount on the 
account. When she contacted PSA she was informed this wouldnt show  on her credit file.
Miss G received a copy of the report about  two weeks  later.  She disagreed  with its contents 
and said that the car was now eight years  old and so some wear  and tear should be 
expected. She said that the cost of the repairs had been over inflated and were unfair.
PSA reviewed the charges  and agreed  to reduce  the invoice  to £625. It said this amount was 
based on the difference in price  between what the car should have obtained  in average 
condition at auction and the price it had actually achieved.
Miss G disagreed with PSAs conclusions and said she wanted to complain about the 
charges. She was also unhappy that PSA continued  to send her letters about the 
outstanding amount on her account.  PSA then passed her account  to a third party  company 
for it to deal with the outstanding balance. This third party company offered to reduce the 
outstanding charge to £531, but Miss G says it gave her conflicting information  about a 
default showing on her credit file.
Miss G complained to this service that PSA had unfairly charged  her for damage to the car, 
badly handled  her complaint, delayed in responding to a data request  and given her 
conflicting information about whether or not a default  notice would be recorded on her credit 
file.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
although she agreed the original charge of £1161 had been unfair she thought the amended  
amount of £531  was reasonable. This amount  reflected  the loss incurred by PSA,  being  the 
difference between  what  an average car of the same make,  model, age and mileage would 
have been expected to fetch at auction  and what this car had sold for. She also said that it 
wasnt in this services remit to punish a business and if a business had done  something 
Ref: DRN74328382wrong we would ask them  to put it right. Here PSA had already reduced  the outstanding  
refurbishment invoice  for the car.
Our investigator said she had reviewed  the items raised in the invoice and had considered  
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations  (BVRLA) guidelines as to what was 
and wasnt fair wear and tear. She said as this was a used car she wouldnt apply the 
guidelines as rigidly as she would if the car had been new at the start of the agreement. She 
also said that the agreement signed by Miss G allowed  PSA to charge for any damage that 
was outside fair wear  and tear.
Our investigator said that looking  at these guidelines she was satisfied that damage 
amounting to £650 was payable and that therefore the reduced charge of £531  was fair. She 
said although she appreciated Miss G thought the charges were over inflated she thought 
they were inline with what  this service would expect to see. 
Our investigator said she couldnt  see that any late fees had been added to Miss Gs 
account, and it was likely that letters from the third party company said a default notice may 
be recorded on a credit file because they had to let people  know  the potential consequence  
of an outstanding balance on an account.
Miss G disagreed with our investigators  view and the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions  of the agreement the car should be kept in good condition  
and, if on return the car is found to be damaged which exceeds fair wear and tear, then 
Miss G is liable to pay PSA compensation for the loss we incur as a result. 
Here, when the car was returned it was inspected by a third party  company and a report 
made of the damage found,  together  with photographs. The repair costs for that damage 
were estimated and an invoice for £1,166 was raised against Miss G. Ive seen that Miss G 
feels strongly that the damage was simply fair wear and tear, taking into account the age of 
the car; that the costs  were overinflated and that PSA was trying  to gain extra  money 
following the voluntary termination of the agreement.
When looking at the damage charged for by PSA I have also considered  the BVRLA 
guidelines. These guidelines are the industry standard  as to what  is and isnt fair wear  and 
tear, and are applied  to assess the condition  of a new car at the end of a finance  agreement.  
Here, I accept  the car was eight years  old and had a mileage of over 92,000 and so would 
have more wear and tear to its bodywork than a newer car that had been  used  less. But I still 
think the guidelines are useful as the car is expected to be in a good condition for its age.
Ive seen that Miss G doesnt dispute  the charge for the missing key but does dispute  all the 
other issues raised. Looking firstly  at the charges  for the uneven  tread  on two of the tyres, as 
I have seen the tyres were still within the legal  limit for tread, I agree that these charges were 
unfair and should  be removed. I also agree that, taking into account the age of the car, wear 
to the carpet in the foot-well  would be expected, so that charge should be removed.
Ref: DRN74328383However, when assessing  the remaining items  of damage,  I think  these were outside  fair 
wear and tear and that these charges were  appropriate. There  is a missing  trim to the 
tailgate/boot interior,  which  Miss G appears to accept isnt present, but disputes the amount 
charged for it to be replaced. However, when looking at the cost,  I dont  think its excessive 
and this cost is based  on an item needing to be replaced rather than repaired.  I dont think  I 
can reasonably  say this cost is overinflated.
The next item was for a broken parcel shelf strap. Miss G says that the car didnt require a 
new parcel shelf and that a clip had fallen  out and was in the boot and simply needed  to be 
re-inserted. The charge  raised isnt for a replacement parcel  shelf  but a repair and I can see 
that there  is clearly a part missing. I dont know whether that part was in the boot or not, and 
Im unsure  why, if the repair was so simple,  Miss G hadnt done this herself prior to handing  
the car back. So, I think its more likely than not that a repair  was required. I also dont think 
the amount charged for that at £30 is excessive.
Looking at the photo of the scuff  to the alloy I think this is beyond fair wear  and tear as it is a 
deep scratch. While I accept there may be some marks on the alloys, due to the cars age 
and use, I wouldnt  expect a mark of that size and depth. I think  the charge for this item is 
fair.
There are dents and damaged paint to the left and right posts of the car. Miss G says that 
these are scratches and, as they are inside the car, there is no need  to repair.  Under the 
BVRLA guidelines dents that are 15mm or less are acceptable. Both dents appear larger 
than this and there  is clearly paint damage. I disagree that this is damage that could be 
ignored, or that it is fair wear and tear. I also think the costs of repair  for both are in line with 
similar costs I have seen for this type of bodywork repair.
Finally, there is damage to one of the alloy rims.  The photo  of this is clear  and it is 100mm 
plus in size. While I appreciate Miss G considered this fair wear and tear I disagree and think  
that PSA was entitled to charge for this. I also dont think the charge is excessive.
So, looking  at the damage found on the car, while I dont think PSA acted fairly in charging 
an invoice of £1,166 I do think the car had sustained damage that was beyond fair wear and 
tear, which it was entitled to invoice Miss G for. As explained by our investigator its not in 
this services remit to punish  business  if we think they have acted unfairly, or done 
something wrong but we will look for them to put it right. And here I think PSA have done 
that.
PSA reviewed the charges  when Miss G complained and reduced  the outstanding  amount to 
£650. This was then further reduced  to £531.  Having assessed what  damage I consider to 
be beyond fair wear and tear I think the invoice amount should have been  £630, and so the 
final amount now requested in settlement of the outstanding balance  is fair and reasonable, 
and Im not going  to ask PSA to reduce it further.
Miss G says that the amount  now being  charged  appears to be arbitrary as it isnt made up 
of any of the costs  quoted for the repairs. PSA has explained that it calculated the 
outstanding amount by deducting  what the car had reached at auction  from the expected 
sale price of an average car of similar characteristics.  Miss G says that PSA hasnt provided 
any proof of this loss but I dont think its reasonable to expect PSA to provide me with the 
sales invoice for this car. And in any event I dont require it as Im satisfied  the outstanding 
balance is a fair amount in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN74328384While I appreciate Miss G feels that PSA has been attempting  to make money out of the 
situation I dont  have evidence of that. I dont accept that the repair  charges quoted were 
excessive and PSA simply  charged  for the damage  found on the car. However, I think it 
would have been fair if, before arriving at the total bill, it had weighed up the age of the car 
when deciding whether it was fair wear and tear, but I cant  reasonably say PSA has acted 
dishonestly. 
Ive seen that Miss G feels  that PSA didnt handle her complaint properly, and delayed  in 
sending her the notes  of her account  when  she made a data request. This service doesnt  
look at how a business handles complaints as this isnt a regulated activity. However, Ive 
seen that PSA provided Miss G with a copy of the report on the car within a reasonable 
period and has also provided the notes as requested. 
Miss G also complains that late charges have been  added to her account, and she was 
given conflicting  information as to whether  a default notice would be recorded on her credit  
file. I havent seen that any late charges have  been  added so Im unclear why she has that 
impression. PSA says no default has been  recorded  and that its required to send regular  
letters if an account has an outstanding balance. I think its likely  the letters Miss G receives  
are computer generated and advise what may happen if the account remains unpaid. I dont 
have enough evidence to say that Miss G has been given conflicting advice that has caused  
her unnecessary distress  and inconvenience.
So, for the reasons given, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint and I dont require  PSA to 
do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7432838