K820x#14complaint
Mr N, assisted by Mrs N, complains that when he stopped making payments to a policy  of 
his, the business, Countrywide Assured plc, didnt tell him that it had a surrender value. That 
meant the value of the policy was taken  over time to pay for costs including life cover.  The 
policy now has no value. Mr N says had he known about  the value of the policy he would 
have surrendered it. He wants  the surrender value in 2003  (when  the payments stopped)  
paying to him.
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained that payments  into the policy  stopped 
in 2003. It then attempted to contact  Mr N to find out what he wanted  to do. However  it 
wasnt able to make contact. As a result the costs and charges which  applied  to the policy  
continued to be charged to the policy. That meant its value went down. Eventually in 2014, 
the policy had no value and it lapsed.
Further the business said it could find no record of Mr N asking for the policy value at the 
time the payments stopped. It does seem however that Mr N did receive  or have sight  of a 
letter of December 2003 about  the fact that payments had stopped.
It appears the premium  payments to the policy were being made  by a third party. Mr N says 
the letter he saw said:
if you want to continue with your policysimply call our customer  helpline
No contact was made by him and he assumed the policy had simply  stopped. 
As the business  didnt uphold the complaint  Mr N came to us. One of our investigators  
looked at the file but, in effect, agreed with the business. He thought  the business had done 
all it needed to. It had tried to contact  Mr N to find out what  he wanted doing  with his policy. 
Having failed to do that, however, it carried on as required by the terms and conditions which 
applied. 
Mr N remained  unhappy and, as he has a right to do, asked  for an ombudsmans  final 
decision. The file has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr N wants.
Of course it would have been  helpful if the business had told Mr N about the policys  current  
value in 2003 (or simply that it had a value at all). However it was under no obligation  to do 
so. 
Stopping life cover is very serious step. For that reason and because it is commonly  a part of 
the terms and conditions of a policy, the business  continued to keep the policy in force by 
taking costs out of the policy when premiums stopped  being  paid.
Ref: DRN72059562Once cancelled  it may not be possible to reinstate life cover. It may be very expensive or 
unobtainable, either for reasons of age or health.  A business will try not to cancel life cover if 
it can be avoided without  being clear what the consumer wants. The business  did exactly  
what I would  expect  it to do. It tried to contact Mr N to find out what  he wanted to do. 
This was a mortgage  endowment policy. It was taken  out for the purpose of getting a value 
equal to or greater than the amount of the mortgage (although  that wont  have  been  
guaranteed). Therefore,  over time, it will have grown in value. Mr N converted his mortgage 
in 2003 and no longer  needed the policy.   
Mr N seems to have  been unaware  that the policy had a value. I dont think that is the fault of 
the business. It is difficult to see how the policy was ever going to do its job unless  it did 
acquire a value.  
I can only uphold a complaint when I have  a reason for doing  so. Often that will be because 
a business has got something wrong. Here,  it has done nothing wrong. I have to bear in 
mind that for the period in question life cover was being provided. Had Mr N unfortunately 
passed away the business would  have paid out the amount of the cover. That cover  has to 
be paid for.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 1 March  2019. 
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7205956