K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander  in my decision as it is responsible for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 1996, Mr S had a PPI policy alongside  a mortgage. He paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy and it protected  his mortgage repayments if he couldnt  work.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss mis-selling complaint. Mr S disagrees  and hes mainly 
concerned that he didnt  need PPI. He says he was misled into thinking the policy  was 
compulsory and the only reason he took the cover was because he was told that he had to 
and that he wouldnt  get the mortgage without it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr S told us that he took out the PPI over the phone  and he may well be right about that. 
Santander couldnt provide any paperwork from the sale. So Ive seen nothing signed by 
Mr S from when  he was sold PPI. But its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale 
happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect Santander or Mr S to have 
kept this.   
And I cant know exactly what  was discussed  when Mr S arranged  this PPI. It isnt 
reasonable to expect  him to recall  in detail what was said at the time after so long. This 
means that what Mr S says about  how Santander  sold him the PPI isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have  to look at everything  and decide what 
I think is most likely.  
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that Santander didnt make 
it clear that it was open to Mr S not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it, just based on 
what he says now. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  So, I can see 
why Mr S mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely  understand  why Mr S mightve  
forgotten this now.  But, on balance, I think its more likely that at the time Mr S wanted  to have 
the benefits that PPI offered him and he decided to buy the policy.  
Ref: DRN70039942If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps  
to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable  as well as giving important policy 
information in a clear  way. So, to be as fair as possible to Mr S, Santander looked at the 
complaint on the basis that it recommended the PPI to him. This fits with what  Mr S recalls 
from the sale and I think  its the fairest way to assess his complaint given the lack of 
paperwork and other information showing how PPI was sold.  And so this is also the 
approach Ive taken.
The exact date Mr S was sold the PPI isnt known.  But Santander has provided a policy  
document which was in use around  the time he was paying for PPI  so I think  its likely that 
in all main respects the policy that Mr S took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
PPI seems to have been right for Mr S based on what Ive seen of his circumstances. The 
policy couldve covered  his mortgage  repayments  for significantly longer than he expected to 
receive full sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work  at least  up to 12 months per 
claim.  And it wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits providing  a useful benefit at 
what couldve been a difficult  time  especially if Mr S mightve faced extra  costs  as a result  
of being sick or disabled.  The policy couldve also paid out if Mr S lost his job and was 
unexpectedly unemployed. I dont know if Mr S wouldve  always  had savings to rely on if he 
wasnt able to work. So, looking at his circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was 
suitable.  
Its possible Santander didnt point out some  things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr S doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those. So I dont  think its likely this information 
wouldve made any difference  to his decision to take out PPI. And I dont know if the PPI 
cost was made clear  to Mr S when he took it out. But, from what  Ive seen, Mr S hasnt 
suggested that he couldnt  afford the monthly  premiums. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr S still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy even if hed been given clearer 
information as it gave him useful protection in his particular situation. I dont find that Mr S 
has lost out as a result  of anything Santander did wrong. This means  it doesnt  need to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7003994