K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional  sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss J under  a conditional sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
that she electronically signed in September 2018. When  it was being serviced in January 
2019 it was noticed that the timing  chain was rattling. A manufacturers dealer inspected  the 
car in February 2019 and said that the timing  chain needed to be replaced  and she says that 
she was advised  that she shouldnt drive  the car. 
She made a warranty claim  but was told that the warranty didnt cover the timing chain so 
she complained  to Close Brothers.  It said that it was aware that the timing  belt wasnt  
causing any current issues with the car but was happy for her to take it to an approved 
garage for it to see if it could claim under the warranty. Miss J wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think that an 
independent inspection was necessary and he believed that Close Brothers  should:  repair  
the car; refund Miss Js monthly payments since January 2019, the diagnostic  charge of 
£108, her car hire costs of £160 and her train fare costs;  and pay her £150  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
Miss J had completed 7,000 miles upon  bringing  this issue  to it  and based on the 
UK average mileage  of 8,000 miles per year she had covered approximately  10.5 
months of driving;
the car passed  an MOT test in April 2019  and the timing chain was only an advisory  
to monitor and repair if necessary   so it questions whether an actual fault was 
present or developing at the point  of purchase;
the timing chain is a wear and tear issue because its a component thats used 
constantly in every journey and Miss J has completed  over 7,000 miles which 
confirms that the car was of satisfactory  quality at purchase; and
it doesnt have  evidence that the faults were  present or developing at the point sale 
and it doesnt  feel that it can be held liable  for the cars durability as Miss J has had 
fair usage of the car.
Miss J says that:
in addition to the investigators recommendations, she should be refunded for her 
insurance, MOT  test and tax costs;
she should receive compensation of £100 for each month because of the effect on 
her mental health, the work in dealing with this issue and the inconvenience that 
shes been caused;
she should also be compensated for her future costs  or the conditional  sale 
agreement should be cancelled and the car returned; and
Ref: DRN71726012shes spent £1,593.35 on train tickets between February 2019 and March 2020  
because she wasnt able to use her car and shes provided a detailed explanation as 
to why she should be reimbursed for them.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss J 
and to Close Brothers on 13 May 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss J. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Miss J was about three years old, had been driven for about 26,000 miles and had a 
price of £12,298.99. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
When Miss J was having the car serviced  in January 2019  four months after it had 
been supplied  to her - she says that the garage noticed that the timing  car was 
rattling. She took the car to a manufacturers dealer about two weeks later and it 
advised that the timing chain needed to be replaced. The cars  mileage  was recorded 
on the job sheet  as 32,954 miles.  Miss J says that she was advised not to drive the 
car until the timing  chain  had been replaced so shes not driven  it since  then. Miss J 
paid £108 to the manufacturers dealer.
The car passed an MOT  test in April 2019  with an advisory about engine  noise  which 
was suspected to be from the timing chain. The cars mileage  was recorded as being  
32,865 miles (so less than the mileage  recorded by the manufacturers dealer) which 
shows that Miss J hasnt been using the car. She says that she had to pay £60.34 to 
hire a car to attend a funeral and that shes paid £1,593.35 for train tickets.
I consider it to be clear  from the manufacturers dealers report  that the cars timing  
chain needs to be replaced.  I dont consider that an independent inspection  is 
required to confirm that. Miss J was able to use the car for four months and to drive 
about 7,000 miles in it during that period.  But I dont  consider that its reasonable to 
expect the timing chain  on a car thats  about three and a half years  old, thats been 
driven for less than 33,000 miles and that cost Miss J £12,298.99  to need  to be 
replaced so soon after it was supplied to her. For that I reason  I consider that the car 
wasnt as durable  as it was reasonable for Miss J to expect it to be and that it wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Close Brothers to arrange and pay 
for the cars  timing to be replaced and to refund to Miss J the monthly  payments  that 
shes made for the car since the issue with the timing  chain  was first identified during 
the service in January 2019. I also consider that it should reimburse her £108  for the 
cost of the diagnostic report  and £60.34 for her car hire costs. All those payments 
should have interest  added  to them.
Miss J has provided evidence to show that she paid £1,593.35 for train tickets 
between February 2019  and March  2020 because she wasnt able to use her car and 
she says that Close  Brothers should reimburse her for those costs.  But Ive said that 
Ref: DRN71726013Close Brothers should refund to her the monthly  payments that shes  made for the 
car since January  2019 so she wont have been  paying for the car since then. 
I consider that a full reimbursement of her train costs would lead to her receiving 
double compensation which wouldnt be fair and reasonable. Miss J also wont have 
paid the fuel and other running costs that she would have incurred for those journeys 
if theyd be made by car.
So Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Close 
Brothers to reimburse Miss J in full for the cost of the train tickets. Having considered 
all of the circumstances of Miss Js complaint, I consider  that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Close Brothers to pay her £500 compensation as a contribution  
towards the additional travel costs that she incurred.
 
Insurance, MOT test costs and tax are the normal running costs of a car. I have said 
that Close Brothers should refund  to Miss J the monthly payments that shes  made 
for the car and contribute towards her travel costs.  But Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to also reimburse her for the other 
costs that shes claimed. Nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Close Brothers to allow Miss J to reject the car 
and end the conditional sale agreement.
These events have clearly  caused Miss J distress  and inconvenience  and I 
sympathise with her for that. I also sympathise  with her for the other difficulties  and 
issues that shes described. But I agree with the investigator that, in addition to the 
other payments, it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to pay Miss J 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that shes  been caused. Im 
not persuaded that a higher award  of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances.
Miss J has referred to her financial difficulties.  I suggest that she contacts Close 
Brothers about those  difficulties. Its required  to respond to any financial difficulties 
that shes experiencing both positively and sympathetically.
So subject to any further representations by Miss J or Close  Brothers, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Miss J has responded  to my provisional  decision  in detail and says, in summary, that:
shed like Close Brothers  to also pay for the car to have a service,  MOT  test and a 
deep clean;
the compensation for her additional travel costs  should be increased  to take account 
of the inconvenience of having to walk to and from the station  as well as relying on 
lifts and paying  for taxis;  
shed like the compensation for her distress  and inconvenience to be reconsidered  in 
light of her severe and enduring health  problems associated  with this ordeal; and
she requests the certificate for the tax deducted by Close Brothers.
She also asks whether,  if payments  are refunded, the term of the agreement  would be 
extended and whether  it would impact her ability to return  the car next year as she may want  
to exercise her right to terminate the agreement.  She also asks whether there will be any 
impact on her credit file.
Ref: DRN71726014Close Brothers says that its surprised  that theres  no recommendation for an inspection to 
take place as a timing  chain can fail for multitudes  of reasons. It says that its never had sight  
of the manufacturers  dealers report and it feels that an unreasonable decision may be 
being reached.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Issues with the cars timing chain were  first noticed  about four months after the car was 
supplied to Miss J and about  two weeks later a manufacturers dealer advised that the timing  
chain needed  to be replaced and said that she shouldnt drive the car until that had 
happened.
The job sheet says:  
Carried out checks - noise from timing  chain area. Oil level correct - no visual faults. 
Carried out compression test - all ok. Advise  replacement of timing  chain kit.
As that was the advice of a manufacturers dealer I consider that its reasonable to rely on 
that advice and I dont consider that an inspection of the car is necessary. For the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I consider that the car wasnt as durable  as it was 
reasonable for Miss J to expect it to be and that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied to her.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Close Brothers to arrange and pay for the 
cars timing to be replaced  and to refund to Miss J the monthly payments that shes made for 
the car since  the issue with the timing  chain was first identified  during the service  in January 
2019. I also consider  that it should reimburse  her £108 for the cost of the diagnostic report  
and £60.34 for her car hire costs. All those payments should have interest added to them.  
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Close  Brothers to also 
pay for the car to have  a service, an MOT test or to be deep cleaned.
In writing my provisional decision I gave  detailed consideration to the additional travel costs  
that Miss J had claimed. She says that the compensation that I recommended should be 
increased to take account of the inconvenience of having to walk to and from the station as 
well as relying on lifts and paying for taxis. But Im not persuaded that I should  increase  that 
compensation and I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to pay 
her £500  compensation as a contribution towards  the additional travel costs  that she 
incurred.
 
My provisional decision also took account  of the health and other difficulties  that Miss J had 
described and Im not persuaded  that I should  increase the compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  that shes been  caused. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Close Brothers to pay Miss J £150  compensation for that distress  and inconvenience.  
Miss J needs to ask Close Brothers for the tax certificate when its calculated the amount of 
interest that its paying to her.
The term of the agreement was five years. Provided  that Miss J has continued  to make the 
monthly payments  due under the agreement I see no reason for that term to be extended as 
Ref: DRN71726015a result of this decision or for any adverse information about the agreement to be recorded 
on Miss Js credit file. The refund of her monthly payments is to compensate her for her loss 
of use of the car so it shouldnt have any impact  on the amount that she would need to pay 
before she could voluntarily terminate  the agreement. If she decides that she does  want  to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement, I suggest  that she asks Close Brothers for a settlement 
quote.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint and I order 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, to:
1.Arrange and pay for the cars timing chain to be replaced.
2.Refund to Miss J the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since 
the date of the service in January 2019.
3.Pay £108 to Miss J to reimburse her for the cost of the diagnostic report.
4.Pay £60.34  to Miss J to reimburse  her for the cost of a hire car.
5.Pay £500 towards the additional travel costs that Miss J has incurred.
6.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 to 4 above  at an annual  rate of 8% simple from the 
date of each payment  to the date of settlement.
7.Pay £150 to Miss J to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 6 above. Close Brothers  must give Miss J a certificate showing how much  tax 
its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7172601