K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from Believe Group  Limited, trading as 
Lendle, when he applied  to increase his mortgage.
 
background
Mr E purchased his home with the Help to Buy scheme and Lendle arranged the mortgage. 
In August  2018  he contacted Lendle  to ask if he could increase his mortgage borrowing so 
he could consolidate  some debts and reduce his monthly  outgoings. Mr E says that he 
provided all the information  that Lendle needed  when he first spoke  to it. Based on this, 
Lendle made  a recommendation. Then it asked him for more  information and finally,  after 
some time, his application was declined. Mr E feels that Lendle wasted his time and chased  
him unnecessarily for information.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. He couldnt see that Lendle  had 
made unnecessary requests for information or had been overly  keen in chasing Mr E to 
provide it. He felt that Lendle had acted  fairly  and hadnt misled Mr E. He said that the lender 
had declined  to provide  the additional  borrowing because, after it had carried  out its checks,  
it considered Mr E to be a higher risk.
Mr E didnt agree. He said that he had told Lendle,  when  he first contacted it, that that he 
had bought his property  through the Help to Buy scheme and about an issue  with his credit 
file and it assured  him it wouldnt be a problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Es frustration in that he went to considerable time and effort  to provide 
all the information  that Lendle had asked for to support his lending application only for it to 
be turned  down. He feels that Lendle wasted his time because he told it, from the outset, 
that he had bought his house through the Help to Buy scheme and that there was a possible 
issue with his credit file information. He says that he asked Lendle  whether this would affect 
his application  but it assured him it wouldnt be a problem.
Lendle accepts that Mr E did tell it that he had bought  his property through the Help to Buy 
scheme and that there was a problem  with his credit file. Based on this initial information, 
and the fact that Mr E had not had his mortgage  for very long, Lendle says that its choice of 
possible lenders  was limited. It selected one that was prepared  to lend against Help to Buy 
properties and would  also look at lending when there  was a problem with credit file 
information. It thought  the lender it had selected would be willing to provide the loan.
Lendle says that when it initially discussed the application with Mr E he didnt know  which  
agency he used  for the Help to Buy scheme.  As soon as Mr E returned his application  it 
carried out a land registry check to obtain this information. Such  checks usually take around 
seven days, so rather than wait for this Lendle  continued  to process Mr Es application.
The lender  asked for more information  to support  Mr Es application.  It had some  further  
questions about  Mr Es expenditure when it was assessing whether the additional loan was 
affordable. Lendle asked Mr E for this. I appreciate  that Mr E feels that this was unnecessary 
Ref: DRN74330912and that he felt harassed, but I find a lender is entitled to carry out its own investigations and 
checks to decide  whether  or not to lend and, if so, on what terms. This is a legitimate 
exercise of its commercial judgement, with which I cannot properly interfere  though it is 
required to treat Mr E fairly. Im not persuaded that Lendle  made  any requests beyond what  
was required by the lender. It may have  taken Mr E some time to get the information 
together but I cant fairly  hold Lendle  responsible  for any difficulties or delays  caused  by 
others.
Once Mr E had provided the additional information,  the lender was still prepared to lend 
against a charge on the property but on different terms, over a longer period of time,  to 
ensure that Mr E could afford the repayments. But when  the land registry  search  came  back  
and the Help to Buy agent was identified it became clear  that any additional borrowing would 
be secured behind both the original mortgage and Buy to Let charge and the lender decided  
it wasnt prepared to lend on this basis. 
Whilst I do recognise Mr Es strength of feeling about this, his request for additional 
borrowing was declined  after taking everything  into account. Based on the combination  of 
factors the lender decided  against lending to Mr E. Im not persuaded that Lendle has made 
any mistake,  caused any delays or asked him to provide  any information that wasnt  needed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433091