K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Ms Ws mortgage with Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS). Shes 
unhappy that YBS didnt give her enough  information to decide how best to maximise the 
financial benefit of overpaying on her mortgage.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms W when my decision is 
published.
In October  2018, Ms W found herself  with some extra cash and thought a good  way to put it 
to use might be to pay a lump sum to her mortgage  in lieu of the monthly instalments; in 
effect, a payment holiday. At this time, Ms Ws regular monthly mortgage instalment  was a 
little over £1,640,  but she was actually paying £1,700. After speaking  to YBS on the phone,  
Ms W paid a lump sum of just over £11,000 into the account, and then stopped making the 
monthly instalments.
In March 2019, YBS wrote explaining  that this may not be to her advantage; this was 
because although  a lump sum advance payment reduces the mortgage  balance (and the 
interest charged on it) immediately, each subsequent missed instalment causes the 
balance (and the interest charged on it) to rise again in stages until the advance  payment is 
used up. 
Ms W resumed making her monthly instalments and complained about the timing of the 
guidance given  in YBS letter. The essence of the complaint is that Ms W felt she should 
have been told this in October 2018  and given more information to decide what  her best 
option would  have been. 
As part of the complaint investigation,  three  alternative scenarios were considered and 
compared; these  were:
not paying the lump sum but continuing to make the monthly instalment as normal;
paying the lump  sum but stopping  the monthly instalment (which  is what  happened); and
paying the lump  sum and continuing to pay the monthly instalment.
Ms W has said the last of the above would have  been the most beneficial to her. She hinted 
shed be prepared to send YBS the missed payments  but mentioned that shed need  to 
release the money from investments, for which there might be a cost penalty.
YBS didnt uphold  the main thrust of the complaint; it didnt think  it had failed to inform  Ms W 
adequately in the original  call in October  2018.  But it said it would be willing to accept 
another lump  sum equivalent to the missed  payments between  November 2018 and 
Ref: DRN73880672March 2019 and apply it on a back-dated basis, as if Ms W had simply continued paying 
regularly. It also offered £250  compensation for her time and trouble.
Ms W referred her complaint here. Our investigator  thought YBS had made  a reasonable 
offer to settle the complaint, and didnt  recommend  it do anything more.  Ms W has asked  
that her compliant  be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round. 
Its sometimes easy for those with a stake  in a complaint  to fall into the trap of thinking  that 
complaint resolution  is solely about finding  fault and/or attributing  blame.  But there can often 
be more (or less) to it than that. There are occasions where its less about deciding  who did 
or didnt  get things wrong and more  about what will set things  right. To put it another way, 
sometimes the outcome  of a complaint is simply about finding  a fair resolution, and in my 
view this is one of those  instances, and the fair resolution I had in mind  is already on offer.
I dont think it really  matters whether Ms W could or should have understood how 
overpayments worked by studying more  closely the fine print of the mortgage  contract. Nor 
do I think it matters  whether YBS, in the original phone conversation, could or should have 
second-guessed that Ms W needed  to know that there were other options beyond the one 
shed called about
All that actually matters  is that YBS has offered to put Ms W in the position shed be in if all 
of the above had happened. When she initially referred the complaint to us, Ms W said it 
wasnt acceptable for YBS to expect her to pay a second lump sum.  I dont  understand why 
she thinks that; its perfectly fair and reasonable that YBS give her the opportunity to pay 
what she would have  paid if shed wanted to maximise her financial benefit and had all the 
information at her disposal to make  the right decision. Anything  else would amount to Ms W 
being unduly enriched, to the tune of around  £11,000. I appreciate there  may now be a cost 
for freeing up that money, but its an opportunity cost, and its for Ms W to weigh that up and 
decide what works best for her
I cant order Ms W to make the payment to YBS, so I cant  order YBS to re-work the account 
as if she had done so. All I can say is that if Ms W wants the optimum  outcome that she says 
she would  have chosen if shed had all the information  she needed at the outset, she has to 
Ref: DRN73880673now make  the payments  (as a lump sum) that she would have made  monthly between the 
relevant dates in late 2018 and early 2019.
That leaves the matter of compensation for Ms Ws time and trouble. Im aware she had 
several telephone conversations  with YBS, and the process of assembling all the figures for 
the various scenarios was time-consuming. But it seems to me that Ms W shouldnt have 
needed to be a financial expert  in possession of perfect information  to appreciate that 
paying the lump  sum and continuing to make the regular  instalments would produce the best 
outcome. 
Given that YBS offered  Ms W that outcome as far back as 2 May 2019 (the date of its final 
response to the complaint) I consider  £250  to be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
I appreciate how strongly Ms W feels  about this. Be that as it may, I have to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things subjectively, sometimes  taking a step 
back from the fine detail  and instead focussing on the broader  picture  to decide whats fair 
in the round.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If Ms W wishes to re-engage with 
Yorkshire Building Society with a view to implementing  its proposal,  shes free to do so 
without any further  involvement from this service.  All Id add is that it wouldnt be reasonable 
for Ms W to expect  the business to keep the offer on the table indefinitely.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 April 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7388067