K821x#15complaint
Ms M and Mr S are unhappy with their home insurer  Legal & General Insurance  Limited in 
respect of a subsidence claim they made  to it initially in 2010  but which is still on-going.
background
Ms M and Mr S noticed cracks in their home in 2010 and contacted L&G.  A loss adjuster 
was appointed (LA1). LA1 said a 4 foot rosebush  in the front garden was causing  the 
problem but began monitoring the movement  of the property  anyway.  Into 2011 Ms M and 
Mr S removed the rosebush.  They always doubted it was the cause of the problem though 
so asked LA1 for proof the property  was stable. LA1 promised to monitor the property even 
after crack  repairs  were  carried  out but this didnt happen. The monitoring data it had 
gathered prior to the repairs starting wasnt shared with Ms M and Mr S but in
September 2012 a certificate of structural adequacy was issued.
The crack repairs had completed just prior to this. But they had taken longer than expected 
and there  had been problems with the quality  of the work undertaken.
Following the issuing of the structural adequacy  certificate, Mr S asked  LA1 about the 
continued monitoring and kept complaining about  this to LA1 into 2013. LA1 then closed its 
file. During the summer of 2013  Ms M and Mr S noted cracks  reappearing. They  called L&G 
and L&G asked if they wanted to make a new claim. Ms M and Mr S said no, that this was 
the same  claim. L&G wouldnt accept that and, at that time Ms M and Mr S werent prepared 
to have another claim on their record so they continued trying to persuade L&G to re-open 
the old claim.
During the summer of 2014 the cracks got worse but Ms M and Mr S felt abandoned by
L&G. The whole situation was causing them a lot of upset.
In the early summer of 2015 Ms M and Mr S decided to ask L&G to consider a new claim. 
L&G accepted the new claim and appointed LA2 (a different loss adjusting  company than 
had been involved  before). LA2 accepted that the damage was a continuation  of that 
suffered previously (not a new claim). LA2 thought a small shrub in their right-hand  
neighbours garden was to blame  and then that a large tree on the other side of Ms M and 
Mr Ss left-hand neighbours home was causing the problem. The tree was owned by the 
local council. Some soil investigations were  undertaken and, on the basis of those LA2 
asked the council to remove the tree. The council objected. Ms M and Mr S made a lot of
enquiries themselves  with the council and, in early 2017, following its own loss adjuster 
visiting the area, the council removed the tree.
Ms M and Mr S though  had never  believed the tree, or the other vegetation, was the 
problem. They felt, and always had, that the whole  row of houses, apart from their left-hand 
neighbours was moving. The left-hand neighbour had underpinned  their house previously so 
Ms M and Mr S felt this had created a hard spot leaving  their home  more  vulnerable  to
normal seasonal movements. They obtained their own expert report in this respect (which 
L&G initially  agreed  to pay for). They remained  of the belief that L&G hadnt carried  out 
enough investigations to be sure what the problem  was. And following the removal  of the 
large tree, their home continued  to move.
L&G agreed that some underpinning of Ms M and Mr Ss home was required. But it thought 
that only the front elevation and left hand party wall needed support. It was around the time 
Ref: DRN72011662of L&G making this offer that Ms M and Mr S complained to this service. They felt this repair 
would mean  their home would ultimately  rip-in two as the unsupported bits were pulled 
downwards with the movement of the rest of the houses to their right-hand side in their row.
At this point Ms M and Mr Ss house was still moving and their left-hand  neighbour, from his 
side, stitched a crack that was breaching  the party wall upstairs.  Whilst L&G had said it 
would pay for Ms M and Mr S experts report it then refused to do so. This was eventually 
sorted but not quickly and not without  hassle.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He felt that LA1 could have done more  in the 
early stages of the claim and if it had, things  would likely have progressed more quickly.  He 
thought the recommendations issued  by Ms M and Mr Ss expert should be followed,  and 
that L&G should pay £500 compensation.
Ms M and Mr S were prepared to accept these findings  what they really  wanted was their 
home to be fixed. L&G disagreed with them.  It said that Ms M and Mr Ss experts  report  
suggested that underpinning should  be done only if further investigations showed such  was 
necessary and it hadnt seen the results  of any further investigations.  It said it had paid 
£1,000 compensation already but it ultimately agreed to pay the £500 suggested by the 
investigator.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt further information was required before I could 
reach a decision.  During the course  of the investigator gathering  that information, what 
appeared (to the investigator)  to be an offer to underpin  Ms M and Mr Ss whole property 
was made.  This was put to them and they cautiously accepted. Unfortunately  this wasnt  an 
offer at all and L&G clarified that it was still of the view that only partial underpinning  was 
necessary.
Ms M and Mr S were, understandably, frustrated. They said that monitoring of their home 
had continued  in the interim and this showed  their home was moving, particularly  the
right-hand end of the front elevation. However,  L&G hadnt been aware that monitoring was 
continuing. When it saw the data it thought the movement  of the house  had stopped  and 
said this meant it would likely opt to not carry out any underpinning  at all.
Ms M and Mr S, again  understandably, felt unable to accept this opinion  from L&G.  In the 
circumstances I took the unusual step of asking L&G to appoint  an independent expert (IE), 
chosen by Ms M and Mr S (from  a list of three  suggested by L&G) to consider the technical 
data available  in order to determine whether or not the house  was stable and what  repairs,  
including underpinning if appropriate,  were required.  This was agreed,  the expert was 
appointed and his report has now been submitted.
The IE found that Ms M and Mr Ss home had been  affected by subsidence caused by 
vegetation drawing  water away from the property. He was satisfied that, based on the recent  
monitoring data, the ground had stabilised and the property was no longer moving. He 
recommended that robust crack  repairs, along  with some reinstatement works should be 
completed followed by decoration.  He was satisfied that, as long as no new vegetation is put 
in place in the area surrounding the property, there would be no further movement.
Ref: DRN72011663I issued a provisional decision. I thought that the IEs report was persuasive and that L&G 
should comply with his recommendations.  I also thought  that it needed to appoint  the IE 
going forward to manage the claim.  I said it should settle the decoration  in cash  if Ms M and 
Mr S wanted  it to and pay them £3,000 compensation (L&G had confirmed that it hadnt, to 
date, paid any compensation).
The parties responded and I issued some further findings regarding  how the claim would be 
managed going forwards.  Im now issuing my final decision; my provisional findings,  the 
parties responses, along with my thoughts on these  and my updated findings are all set out 
below as part of this final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
necessary repairs
I know  that Ms M and Mr S have a concern  that this review hasnt been truly independent.  
They say that the IE said he had known LA2s senior manager for a number of years. Whilst 
I can see that would be troubling for them I dont think that means the integrity of the review
has likely  been compromised. And in saying that Im mindful that once a person  has reached 
a certain level within  their profession  it isnt unusual for them  to know  others. That doesnt 
necessarily mean they hold any particular kinship or alliance with them. Or that they will be 
unable to act professionally with a view to reaching their own conclusion on an issue  without 
being swayed  by other conclusions merely  because  they know the person who made them.
Having seen the report and communication that has followed it between  the IE and Ms M,
Ive found no evidence of bias. For example,  I can see that the IE has been  willing  to engage 
with Ms M and Mr S to answer their queries and concerns.  Further,  the IEs report  is, in my 
view, persuasive. Im satisfied that hes taken all the relevant evidence into account and that 
hes considered  all of the arguments from both sides. Im satisfied that L&G should follow the 
recommendations set out in his report.
Ms M and Mr S state I havent  specifically  mentioned the IEs recommendation that L&G 
continues to provide  cover. My finding  though is (and was) that the IEs recommendations 
should be followed. Ill record this in my award section too.
I continued my provisional findings: 
As mentioned the IE has answered some queries raised by Ms M and Mr S. So in addition to 
the recommendations within his report Id confirm that L&G will also need to take a view 
when arranging repairs as to whether windows and doors can merely  be re-aligned  or 
whether they actually  require replacement. Id also emphasise that whilst  the IE has 
mentioned that settling  in cash  for decoration works  might be an option, either in whole  or in 
part, as that might suit the parties, that doesnt  extend as far as the crack repairs and 
reinstatement works  (including windows and doors). Those should be carried out by L&G.
Ref: DRN72011664Ms M and Mr S said they were still concerned because the IE hadnt accounted for the 
incorrect details theyd  pointed out his report was, at least in part, based  on. 
I appreciate that the IE has just explained why he relied on certain things, rather  than 
acknowledging Ms M and Mr Ss view that these facts were wrong and advising if that 
changed his view or not. But I was aware of their concerns when I considered their 
complaint, and having looked at them against  the report I didnt, and dont, think that they 
materially affect the findings.  For example,  whilst the report  refers to a smaller ash tree being 
taken out (in addition  but subsequent to the large ash tree),  which  they say wasnt the case,  
whether that small tree was there  or taken out or not, the monitoring readings still showed 
that whilst  movement continued after the large  ash was taken out it was less significant than 
previously and ceased altogether following removal of other  shrubs.
My provisional findings continued:
Further, in the circumstances,  and if he is willing to do so, Id suggest that the service  of the 
IE is utilised  further as the claim draws to conclusion,  in lieu of a loss adjuster. The IE can 
put the work  to tender  and L&G will remain  responsible for the repairs  carried  out. The IEs 
continued involvement should  afford Ms M and Mr S some peace of mind  and provide them  
with some confidence that things  will be done  in a timely manner and with all due diligence.  
Id like L&G to make  enquiries in this respect of the IE before I make my final decision  that 
way if he is unwilling or unable to act in this way I can consider what  else should  be done 
before making  any final decision.
Ms M and Mr S felt this was a good idea. However,  L&G advised that the IE wasnt able to 
have any continued  involvement. I considered the situation and didnt think it was 
appropriate for LA2 to resume management  of the claim  not given the mistakes that had 
been made to date and, given those errors, how Ms M and Mr S had reasonably  lost faith in 
it. Therefore,  I told L&G that it should appoint a different loss adjusting  company and it 
agreed to do so. I shared this information with Ms M and Mr S and they agreed  this was a 
fair and reasonable way to move  their claim forward. 
So it is now my final decision that L&G should appoint the loss adjusting company it named 
to manage Ms M and Mr Ss claim going forward. The new loss adjuster will be able to 
appoint contractors and specialists as appropriate to complete the work  necessary to 
conclude the claim and decide  on a cash settlement, if requested  by Ms M and Mr S, for the 
decoration works.
My provisional findings continued:
I fully understand that Ms M and Mr S still have some concerns about the property, the 
cause of the damage, and whether damage  will re-occur  in the future. Im satisfied though  
that the IE has answered this concern. Im also satisfied that the monitoring  data,  even from 
my lay persons point  of view, does show that the property didnt move downwards  
significantly (compared  to how it had been moving  before)  last summer. And that is
important because the summer of 2018  saw a substantial spike  within the insurance industry 
for subsidence  claims because it was one of the hottest  and driest  on record across the UK.
The monitoring data shows that whilst the property continued to move downwards  after the 
large tree was removed, it was moving  less than previously. So I think  that tree was likely 
having an impact on the property. Other  smaller shrubs that were closer  to the property  were  
Ref: DRN72011665then taken out in June  2018, and it was after this that no further  significant  movement 
occurred, despite  the extraordinary weather. I cant fairly ignore that clear scientific  data.
And whilst Im not discounting Ms M and Mr Ss theory that their house is more vulnerable 
because it is acting  as a cantilever between the underpinned property on their left and the 
rest of the terrace  on their right, I cant ignore the fact that the IE wasnt persuaded that this 
argument necessitated underpinning of their home. In this respect though, Im also mindful 
again that their home didnt suffer any significant downwards movement during the summer 
of 2018  which suggests that either the other homes in the terrace  didnt either (and if they 
arent moving there  is no or little risk to Ms M and Mr Ss home),  or they arent affecting
Ms M and Mr Ss home in the way they feared  they were.
It is also important to consider that an insurer doesnt have to provide protection against  any 
possible future damage. It has to ensure  that when it repairs a property those repairs are 
effective and durable. So if they fail in the short-term  it will have to fix them again.  And if 
there is a known problem  that is likely  to affect the durability of planned repairs then the 
insurer will need to act to limit that before it starts  work. The latter  is why insurers remove 
trees and/or underpin in respect  of some subsidence claims. The former  is one reason why 
its important here for L&G to carry out the repair  and reinstatement works, even if not the 
decorating. It keeps  the chain of liability clear.
Im aware that Ms M and Mr S would like me to comment  in more detail on the report they 
obtained. They feel this vindicated their argument that there was a hard spot created by their 
left-hand neighbours home being  underpinned. I havent commented on that report  in detail  
as it doesnt affect  my findings here. I did note provisionally that the expert who wrote  that 
referred to further  tests  being necessary, so in that respect Im not convinced  his findings 
were conclusive. Thats  not to say they arent without merit but, because the property has 
stabilised and no movement, even  as a result of the property potentially  being a cantilever 
occurred during the exceptionally dry summer of 2018, the situation  has simply moved on.
I continued provisionally to say:
Regarding the decorating; I think that any tender should include costings for this work. That 
would mean  the price  of that work  has fairly been  determined. If Ms M and Mr S want it to be 
done as part of L&Gs  repair and reinstatement work it can be. If theyd rather have any part 
or all of it settled in cash then L&G should  do that (based  on the tender price). But if its 
settled in cash, L&G wont have any responsibility  for proper completion of that part of the 
work.
In the circumstances  here I think this is fair  Ms M and Mr S have waited a long time for 
structural repairs to be done so they can safely move on to other major work they want to do 
within their home. They, understandably, may not want to have final decorative work 
completed right now if they are about  to embark on other messy work  that may spoil that 
finish. Doing  some or all of that when the work  they want to do is done  may well make more  
sense to them. And getting the decorative  work priced as part of the tender is the most likely 
way I can see for avoiding any other  disputes that might arise about whats  necessary and 
what the cost for that would likely be. If Ms M and Mr S opt to take cash  for any or all of the 
decoration work L&G wont have to pay them the cost of VAT for that work unless or until a 
related work invoice  is provided to it showing that VAT is due.
Given the necessary  change to my provisional findings  that a new loss adjusting company 
will manage things going forwards,  rather than the IE, the work will not necessarily now go to 
Ref: DRN72011666tender. Ive explained  this to Ms M and Mr S and they understand this. But the decorative  
work can still be estimated for by the new loss adjuster and/or the contractors/specialists it 
chooses to appoint. 
Im satisfied that a competent contractor can consider what  is needed for a whole  job from 
start to finish, so I dont  think its necessary for the costing process  for decorative work to 
wait until the repairs are  complete. However,  if as works progress variations occur and/or 
more mess  than expected is created (perhaps  if adequate protection measures arent taken,  
for example), then the costing will need  to be reviewed.
And whilst putting the work to tender would gain prices for the work that would reasonably be 
available to Ms M and Mr S, that may not automatically be the case  if the new loss adjuster 
is using its panel  contractors. Therefore, if panel  contractors are used  to price the work any 
estimate they produce that is to be the basis for any cash  settlement offered to Ms M and 
Mr S for the decorative work, will need to take into account retail rates. In line with what  
I said provisionally; L&G cant fairly base any cash settlement it offers or makes for 
decorative works on the price it would cost it to complete the works.  
Following my provisional finding I explained the position regarding VAT to Ms M and Mr S in 
more detail. It isnt that L&G wont have to pay them for any VAT they incur,  rather its only if 
they incur it and evidence it to L&G that it will have  to reimburse them.
My provisional findings continued:
how the claim was handled
I think LA1 got things  wrong at the start. Ive set out some key details in my background 
above. These have  been provided  by Ms M and Mr S. L&G has been  unable to provide any 
evidence at all from this time period. Ive no reason  to doubt  what  Ms M and Mr S have told 
me and L&G has confirmed that a small shrub was felt to have been the cause of the 
problem at the time, even  though no evidence of its findings has been  provided. So its detail 
broadly correlates with what Ms M and Mr S have said happened.
I fail to see though how or why an expert  loss adjuster could reasonably  conclude  that a 
small shrub with a limit root base  and need for water would  have been  causing Ms M and 
Mr Ss home to subside. Particularly  not when there was a circa 16 foot tree nearby.
I know  that when  LA2 carried  out investigations there were never any roots from this 
particular tree found in the soil samples  taken from around the property.  But the proof of the 
trees impact  is now evident. And its completely normal  for most loss adjusters, where  clay 
soil is concerned as is the case here, to look to blame large  trees in the area before anything 
else. So LA1s actions  during the early stages  of the claim make no sense to me. The tree 
shouldve been  the centre of focus from the start and if it had been,  the claim wouldve 
concluded sooner and the years between  then and now wouldnt have  been  wasted.
I think also that LA2 handled the removal of the tree badly. I can see that Ms M was far more 
involved than she should have to have  been. But more fundamentally than that LA2s 
approach to the council was on the basis of a report it had obtained which said the tree 
should be removed  due to live roots being  found in the soil samples. However, what neither 
the writer of the report nor LA2 noticed  was that the live roots were said to have  come  from a 
different species of tree. Im not surprised  that, on the basis of that evidence  the council 
Ref: DRN72011667wasnt persuaded its tree was causing  damage. It isnt clear why the council eventually  
removed the tree. I know Ms M had been  speaking to it and that LA2 had been as well.
Whilst the councils  own loss adjuster seemed unpersuaded he agreed to attend the area 
himself and it was following this visit that the council acted to remove the tree.
So I think the councils reluctance  to remove the tree was likely, at least in part, to do with
the poor evidence  gathered by LA2. But councils are often uncooperative in this respect and 
most subsidence claims that involve  a third-party tree become protracted to some  extent.  
Which means that even  had LA1 acted in respect of the tree at the start, and given the 
unexpected impact lesser  shrubs were clearly  having on the property, it was always going  to 
have been a lengthy claim. But I think if this claim had been run efficiently from the start it 
would reasonably have unravelled something like this:
claim early 2010,
a year (into early  2011) of evidence gathering and monitoring (the latter  completely 
normal process  where clay soils are concerned),
at least  six-months to have the tree removed (taking the claim into mid-summer 2011),
further monitoring  through  the summer  of 2012 (necessary as, the tree having been 
removed, it would have  been  important to see the full cyclical impact on the property),
further (but much less) movement being  noted  would  have  meant further removal of 
lesser shrubs was required as well as a period  of further monitoring to see if the property 
was now stable.
repairs could then have started  in August/September 2013 and would likely have been  
completed before Christmas that year (the latter is a conservative estimate).
Ms M and Mr S would  then have been  able to enjoy Christmas 2013 knowing the claim could 
be put behind  them. Instead theyve endured a further five and a bit years (bringing 
everything up to date at this point) of trying to get their home  repaired and living with, 
regarding one crack at least, significant  damage. I know this was particularly difficult for the 
family in 2014  when  Mr S had some  health  concerns.  Ive heard the frustration and despair  
first-hand from Ms M and I accept  that they feel like theyve been  let down by L&G. I also 
know theyve had to put their plans for extending  their home on hold. The impact on them
has been significant.
I also accept that the initial repairs in 2012  werent  without problem and that this, along  with 
the other details Ive set out in my background, caused further distress and inconvenience  
too. Ms M and Mr S may feel the background lacks detail but its intended to be a summary 
of key issues.
L&G has confirmed that whilst it offered and agreed previously to pay a total of £1,500 
compensation, nothing to date has been paid. Having looked at everything  Im satisfied that 
a total of £3,000 compensation is fairly and reasonably due to Ms M and Mr S.
L&G said it accepted  it had got things  wrong at times  but said it felt £2,000 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the upset it had caused. Ms M and Mr S said they agreed  with 
my finding  that this should have been  resolved by Christmas 2013 and said they recognised  
that the awards made by this service are limited.  
I note L&Gs  assessment of the situation. What  its said though  hasnt persuaded me to 
either change my provisional findings  or think that my suggested  award was unfair  or 
unreasonable. I remain of the view that, in the circumstances here, regarding the significant 
Ref: DRN72011668distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  L&G caused Ms M and M S, beyond that which  they 
would always likely  have suffered due to a claim of this type, £3,000  compensation is fairly 
and reasonably due. 
I know Ms M and Mr S are concerned about what will happen as the claim now resumes  and 
repair work begins. They are worried that further things will go wrong. Whilst I have no way 
of knowing what might happen I can see that L&G has accepted  that, to date,  its made 
mistakes. Theres going to be a change in loss adjuster also.  So Id hope  that the claim will 
now progress swiftly and efficiently with no further cause for concern. 
However, if things do go wrong  then Ms M and Mr S will be able to make a further complaint 
to L&G.  And if they think it is acting  in a way that doesnt comply with my award, assuming 
they accept my decision within the deadline  set, they can seek  to enforce my decision 
through the courts.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to:
Carry out the recommendations made in the IE report.
In respect of the works, appoint the new loss adjusting company to manage the claim 
moving forward,  carrying out work in line with the IEs recommendations. That will include 
a necessary consideration of the state of the windows  and doors to determine if they can 
be repaired or if they will need replacing.  The new loss adjuster will organise and 
ultimately oversee the repair and reinstatement of Ms M and Mr Ss home (although they 
may choose to carry out the decoration works themselves). Legal & General Insurance  
Limited will remain liable for the proper completion  of those repairs organised  by the loss 
adjuster and carried out under  its authorisation (it wont be liable for any decorative works 
settled in cash).
If Ms M and Mr S wish it to, make a cash settlement  to them  for any or all necessary 
decorative works. The new loss adjusting company should estimate  the cost of this work 
but review the costs  if any changes to the reinstatement work or other issues arise  that 
mean the extent of the decorative work  has likely changed  from that estimated. The 
estimate used as the basis  for any cash settlement will have to be based on the retail 
price for the work, not on what the contractor might  charge Legal & General Insurance 
Limited if it were carrying out the work. Any settlement  made can be less VAT unless or 
until Ms M and Mr S provide Legal  & General Insurance  Limited with a VAT invoice 
showing such is due. It will then need to reimburse them  the VAT cost applicable on the 
agreed cash  settlement  amount.
Pay Ms M and Mr S £3,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7201166