K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a lifetime  pet insurance policy  and 
hes now unable to take his business elsewhere  because of Ss age.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in May 2019. That provisional decision is attached 
and forms part of my final decision.  
Both parties  have confirmed theyve received my provisional decision. And both parties have 
replied.
Allianz has replied and accepted the provisional  decision. Mr P has replied and has made a 
number of further points which I will deal with below.
In my provisional decision I said I was satisfied  that the original terms and conditions  
document clearly  set out what was going to happen as S got older. I was also satisfied that 
this was again set out one year prior to the change being implemented  along with the set 
percentage liability. I said that Allianz  gave sufficiently appropriate information, including a 
key facts document to Mr P so that he could decide whether the policy  was suitable. 
Mr P disagrees. He says its clear  that the ombudsman didnt review the file in full and didnt 
take into account the supporting documentation. 
Mr P says he provided the terms and conditions of his policy, reference number 6077/19 in 
an email to us on 16 January 2018. He says that these are the terms and conditions  that 
have been effective since he renewed  the policy in August 2011 and they make no reference 
to the policy  excess  changing to a percentage when the pet is 10 years old. He says he has 
been mis-sold pet insurance as co-insurance  from August 2011  until August 2017. Mr P also 
says that even if you take policy document  reference number 6077/18 as being effective and 
valid in 2010,  he doesnt recall ever seeing this document.
In his response to the provisional  decision Mr P says that Allianz didnt communicate the co-
insurance section  to him in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. Hes pointed to our 
technical notes  and hes stated that the provisional decision is incorrect  as its based on the 
incorrect terms and conditions. He says hes lost his trust in the process because of this 
inaccuracy.
In a further email  dated 31 May 2019 Mr P says he read the terms and conditions carefully 
before renewing  in 2011 and again in 2013. He says there is no mention of older pets or co-
insurance. He says at some point Allianz has decided to change  their "covered for life" pet 
insurance to co-insurance and I believe that they have twisted the terms and conditions  of 
my policy unfairly to do this. Mr P also says surely an insurance  policy  can only have one 
set of terms and conditions?  If the terms and conditions that you quoted  and the 
Ombudsman quotes in his provisional  decision are actually the correct terms and conditions 
of my policy then surely Allianz  has mislead me by sending me other terms and conditions 
which I was led to believe were the current terms and conditions  of my policy.
Mr P has also pointed  to the unfair terms guide.  In particular  hes stated that the customer 
should be able to easily understand what they are signing up to, that all terms should be 
Ref: DRN70962132transparent, legible and in plain English, the terms must be fair and shouldnt  potentially 
work against the customer.
my findings
In my provisional decision I said that the term asking a customer to pay a percentage of all 
treatment costs after a certain age was a significant term and needed  to be brought to the 
attention of the customer at the point  of sale. I explained that this specific term was 
highlighted in the key facts document  and that Allianz had done  enough to draw it to Mr Ps 
attention.
Mr P has provided a copy of the Petplan terms and conditions, reference  6077/19  effective 
from 1 July 2011. He says this is the first policy document  he recalls and this document  was 
what hed based  his decision on. He says the additional treatment percentage costs from 
age 10 and over are not made clear  in this document.
Mr P bought this policy in August 2010. So the policy terms and conditions that are 
applicable to the sale are in a document with reference number  6077/18. In this policy 
document it says If your pet is covered on the Pet Share option  or your pet is 10 years  old 
or over, or 7 years old or over for select breeds and rabbits, in addition  to the Veterinary 
Fees and Complementary Treatment  fixed excess you will also have to pay a percentage of 
all treatment costs. See Definitions - Excess and Select breeds, and Veterinary Fees and 
Complementary Treatment - What you pay.
Mr P has provided us with policy document reference number  6077/19 which is effective 
from 1 July 2011. In this document it says For Veterinary  Fees and Complimentary 
Treatment the excess that applies to the cover  for your pet will either be a fixed amount only 
or a fixed  amount and a percentage amount. This will be shown on your certificate  of 
Insurance Animal details.  If a percentage applies you will pay a percentage of all treatment 
costs in addition  to the fixed excess.  See Definitions - Excess  and Veterinary  Fees  and 
Complementary Treatment - What you pay.
Mr P says if hed known about the additional percentage  charge for any treatment he 
wouldnt have bought the policy. So I need  to look at what was set out at the time of sale,  
and whether the appropriate terms were correctly  drawn to Mr Ps attention. I need to be 
able to say that Allianz set out its terms clearly so as to allow  Mr P make an informed choice. 
And I think they were. As per my provisional decision Im satisfied that the policy terms and 
conditions document  did enough to draw this significant  term to Mr Ps attention  at that time.  
Im satisfied Allianz provided  a key facts  document and communicated this term in a manner  
that is clear,  fair and not misleading.
I agree  that the specific term is worded differently in each policy.  And I can see that the 
policy document reference number 6077/18 sets out the term appropriate to this complaint 
better than in the 2011 policy document reference number 6077/19. But they both warn the 
customer of the excess  and the likelihood of having to pay an additional percentage. 
Nevertheless I dont think it matters in this case.  The policy document that Mr P has provided 
is only effective from 1 July 2011,  which was after Mr P started  his policy. And even though  I 
appreciate that Mr P says this is the first document he recalls  receiving, which  may be his 
recollection, the policy document I have to take into account is the one that was valid in 
August 2010 and not July 2011. 
Ref: DRN70962133Its probable that policy document  6077/19 had come into effect when  Mr P renewed in 
August 2011.  But its not unusual for insurers to update or revise policy documents  as long 
as it continues to make the customer aware  of significant exclusions and limitations by 
placing them  in the key facts document. 
Both Mr P and Allianz  have provided me with a number of policy documents from a number 
of different  years. And I can see from these documents that the specific  term regarding the 
percentage payment for treatment has been rewritten. Im not going to set out the specific  
term from each updated  policy  document from each year. But I want  to reassure Mr P that 
Ive reviewed each  policy  document Ive received. And I can see that even though the term 
has been revised or rewritten, each policy still spells out that treatment  for your pet will 
involve either a fixed excess or a fixed excess and a percentage amount.  And I can see that 
the specific term remains under the significant exclusions and limitations section  of the key 
facts document  on every  updated version of the terms and conditions  Ive reviewed. So I 
think that Allianz has been  clear. I dont think it mis-lead Mr P so I dont think it did anything 
wrong here.
I appreciate that Mr P has made  various submissions to support his argument. He feels  that 
Allianz have been deceitful and that its tried to mislead the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Hes also directed me to the unfair terms guide from the government website and hes asked 
us to report Allianz to the Financial Conduct Authority.
But I cant see that Allianz has done anything  wrong in this case.  I appreciate that Mr P is 
going to be disappointed with the outcome, but Allianz have highlighted this specific  and 
important term to Mr P by placing it under the limitations heading of the key facts  document 
that was valid at the time of sale. And its continued  to remain within this document for all the 
policy terms and condition  documents that Ive seen.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
10 August 2019.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a lifetime  pet insurance policy  and hes now 
unable to take his business  elsewhere because of Ss age.
Ref: DRN70962134background
Mr P bought pet insurance in August 2010. At the time S was two years old and Mr P says he 
specifically bought this cover for peace of mind going forward. 
In 2017, when  S was nine years old, Mr P was advised  that the terms of the policy  would change  at 
the next renewal.  Allianz said that once S passed her 10th birthday,  it would  only pay 80% of any 
claim, less the standard excess.
Mr P was unhappy.  He said Allianz shouldve told him this from the beginning. Had it done so, Mr P 
says he would  never have taken out the policy. He feels hes now locked into this policy and its not 
possible to get full cover elsewhere.  
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and was of the view that the policy had not been 
mis-sold. He explained  that the policy was an annual renewable policy  and even though it was a 
lifetime cover, Allianz has the right to review the policy terms at each renewal.
Mr P doesnt  agree. He pointed towards an ombudsman  decision made in another country which 
found that Allianz had misled  its pet insurance customers. The decision said that Allianz  had failed to 
inform its customers  of rising costs as it increased  the co-payments alongside the age of the pet. Mr P 
reiterates that this was never made clear,  and that his other pet T will be in the same situation at the 
next renewal.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I dont plan to uphold the complaint.
Mr Ps case is that he wasnt aware  that hed have to pay additional medical costs  on top of an excess  
as S got older if there was a claim.  He says he wouldnt  have  bought the policy if hed known. 
Its important that a business provides  sufficient information at the point of sale to allow the consumer 
to make a properly informed decision. I agree with Mr P that a change  like this, applying at the point 
that the pet reaches the age of 10, is something that ought to be made  clear  from the outset.
We expect  Allianz  to communicate with its consumers  in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
And in a situation where the sale is a non-advised  sale, as this was, Allianz  should provide a key 
facts document containing all the most significant terms and conditions  of its policy. 
Allianz should  also be taking  reasonable  steps to ensure a customer  is given appropriate information 
about a policy in good time so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed. And this should include the policy terms,  including its main  benefits, 
exclusions, limitations,  conditions and its duration.
So Ive thought carefully about  the documentation  that was provided at the time of sale and at renewal 
each year. Im not aware of how the policy  was purchased,  but in 2010 Mr P received an introductory 
letter along with the policy  terms  and conditions. And in the letter  
Mr P was told to check  all documents  received and to read the terms and conditions.  It said if he 
wasnt happy he could  cancel within 14 days. The letter also stated that each year Mr P would receive 
an invite to renew the policy and that each year Allianz  would provide the full vet fees benefit for a 
further year.
On pages 2 and 3 of the terms and conditions  document, the key facts of the policy are clearly set 
out. And under  the heading What are the significant exclusions and limitations of my pets policy? it 
says If your pet is covered on the Pet Share  option  or your pet is 10 years old or over, or 7 years old 
or over for select breeds  and rabbits, in addition to the Veterinary Fees and Complementary 
Ref: DRN70962135Treatment fixed excess you will also have to pay a percentage of all treatment costs. See Definitions - 
Excess and Select breeds, and Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment  - What you pay.
This isnt an unusual  term. But it is a significant one. And a significant term is one that we think  is very 
important and needs to be brought  to the attention of the consumer. So Ive thought about  whether it 
was drawn to Mr Ps attention  when he bought the policy. And looking at the key facts policy  
summary, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions  did enough to draw  all the significant terms to Mr 
Ps attention  at that time. So Im satisfied this isnt misleading. Im satisfied Allianz  provided a key 
facts document and communicated this term in a manner that is clear  fair and not misleading.
Ive also looked at the renewal letter Mr P received  the year before Ss 10th birthday. It says we want  
to give you advance notice  of a change that will apply from your next renewal in August 2018. At that 
time, the way we apply your excess for your pet will change. In addition to the fixed amount  you pay, 
you will also pay a percentage of all claims submitted for veterinary treatment and complementary 
treatment. Typically this percentage is 20% but we will confirm the amount before it is implemented  at 
next years renewal. The cost of treating older  pets can be exceptionally high. In order to keep 
insurance affordable  for older pets we have to strike a balance between  excess changes  and 
premium increases. We believe this is the fairest  way of ensuring both healthy and sick pets can 
continue their cover. I believe Allianz took reasonable steps  to ensure appropriate  information was 
received in good time so that Mr P could make  an informed decision about  the arrangements  
proposed.
I also note Mr P has advised that it was never made clear what percentage amount hed be liable for 
at each claim once S had her 10th birthday. I can see that the specific percentage amount wasnt set 
out at the beginning.  But Mr P was told there would  be a percentage liability, just not how much. And I 
note that the percentage liability is set out in the letter issued a year before the term was due to take 
effect. 
I dont think this is unfair. I wouldnt expect a business to be able to predict  a percentage liability 10 
years in advance. And it has given  Mr P a full years warning of the percentage liability amount, after 
setting out in the terms and conditions that there would be a percentage liability at this time. So I dont 
think Allianz has done  anything wrong here.
Mr P has also questioned the wording  on the introductory letter which  says that each year Allianz 
would provide  the full vet fees benefit for a further year.  He says this is misleading as once S passes 
a certain age, he has to contribute  to the cost, so Allianz are not providing the full vet fees benefit. But 
I think  they are. Once your pet goes  over 10 years of age, the benefit  reduces. But you are still getting 
the full benefit as set out in the key facts part of the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think 
Allianz has done anything wrong here.
I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mr P. But I have to remain impartial  and be fair to both 
sides. Im satisfied that the original terms and conditions  document  clearly set out what was going to 
happen as S got older. Im also satisfied that this was again set out one year prior to the change  being 
implemented along with the set percentage liability.  Allianz gave sufficiently appropriate information, 
including a key facts  document  to Mr P so that he could decide whether  the policy  was suitable. That 
document set out a main benefit and limitation  regarding  the change  after 10 years. So Im not 
persuaded that the policy  was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
Im not planning on upholding  Mr Ps complaint against Allianz Insurance  Plc
Ref: DRN7096213