K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  The Share Centre Limited  (The  Share Centre) gave her poor service in 
relation to a Lifetime ISA (LISA) transfer.  Miss S is assisted in bringing her complaint  to this 
service by her father Mr S.
background 
Miss S completed an application for a LISA with The Share Centre  on 12 March  2018. On 15 
March 2018 she paid in £100  and made  a further  payment  of £3900 on 19 March  2018. As 
part of that application she also asked to transfer  an existing Help to Buy ISA (HTB) from 
another provider  into her LISA. On 21 March  2018  The Share Centre received £5,861.65 
from the previous  HTB provider who told them  the total subscription from 6 April 2017 to 
date of transfer was £2,000.00 and the date of first subscription in year of transfer was 1 
May 2017. Miss S was unhappy as The Share Centre returned the payment on 23 March  
2017 and informed her on 26 March 2017 theyd done this and cancelled  the transfer.  The 
Share centre  said this was as Miss S already  subscribed the full £4000 allowance  for 
2017/18 into her LISA. They said if they were to accept the cheque  she would be 
oversubscribed by £2000  and breaking  HMRC regulations. Later The Share Centre offered 
to receive the full transfer and split it between LISA  and non LISA accounts. Miss S agreed 
to this but it wasnt possible to complete before the end of the 2017/18 tax year. Miss S was 
unhappy and complained  to The Share Centre she said shed lost the £1000 government  
bonus.
The Share Centre didnt uphold this complaint. They told Miss S they werent  the cause of 
her missing  out on the bonus. The Share Centre said had they not returned the cheque they 
would have jeopardised delaying the transfer  of Miss Ss previous years subscription  and to 
hold the cheques wouldve been  counterproductive  as they had no means of putting it into 
her account  due to the nature of it and the rules they had to follow  for subscription limits and 
the LISA. They thought  returning the cheque on 23 March 2018  gave plenty  of time for 
further action  to be taken before the deadline on 5 April 2018. And they said they didnt know 
why there  was such a delay in Miss S retrieving her money as it had been placed in a 
savings account  at the other provider by 29 March 2018.
The Share Centre said had the original  cheque from the other provider not included a current  
year subscription they wouldve been  able to allocate the funds on first instance, but it wasnt 
their practise to oversubscribe an account  due to the inherent risks involved in doing that. 
The Share Centre told Miss S it was only shortly after her cheque was returned that the 
problem of oversubscriptions arose  for more of their clients so they looked into a way around 
the issue with their Transfers and Technical team. And they said a decision was then made  
within the company  to offer splitting the cheque. The Share Centre maintained  this position 
in further communications with Miss S but later also offered her a goodwill payment of £150. 
Miss S refused this and brought her complaint to this service.
Given the amount  Miss S attempted to pay into the LISA was over the limit allowed, our 
adjudicator thought The Share Centre  were  doing the right thing by sending  the money back. 
And he didnt think it unreasonable for them to rely on clause 5.4 in their terms to do so. He 
thought the later solution offered by The Share Centre of receiving the full transfer and 
splitting it between LISA and non LISA  account was a commercial decision and not 
something they were  using at the time Miss Ss money was received. Nor was it something 
they had to offer under the rules  and regulations they were governed by. So he thought The 
Ref: DRN71347362Share Centre had done nothing wrong in not offering this option  earlier  and they didnt need 
to do anything more  on this complaint point.
The adjudicator could see there  had been  a number  of calls and emails between  Miss S and 
The Share Centre. And although he couldnt  be sure how long Miss S had spent  contacting 
The Share Centre herself  he did agree Miss S had been inconvenienced by this. But he felt 
The Share Centre had been  responsive  and wasnt persuaded there was anything more  they 
couldve done. He thought  The Share Centres  offer to pay £150 as a gesture of goodwill 
was fair and reasonable and still open  if Miss S wished to accept it. 
Miss S felt unable to accept the adjudicators  findings. She said the view lacked an in depth 
review of the issues shed  raised.  In respect  of The Share Centre returning of the money she 
didnt dispute  the right to return it but that they did so without informing her or taking her 
instructions. She also thought The Share Centre offering the option to split funds on 27 
March 2018 but not the day before confirmed her opinion that theyd acted in haste without 
considering all options and without due care and diligence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Miss S feels  our adjudicator 
has made assumptions that arent  backed up by documentary evidence  and that his view 
lacks depth. Ive looked at everything afresh before reaching an independent view.
In deciding complaints I concentrate on the crux of the complaint and the issues I think  are 
relevant in order to reach a conclusion. That means that I might not investigate or comment  
on every  issue  or argument each  party  raises. But it doesnt mean Ive ignored  them.  Its 
simply that Ive decided theyre not critical to me reaching a decision.
I appreciate Miss S is unhappy  with the overall outcome here, but I dont think  thats been 
caused by anything The Share Centre have done  wrong here. The initial problem here arose 
due to Miss Ss oversubscription and, from everything Ive seen,  I think  The Share Centres 
response to that problem  has been a reasonable one given all the circumstances. Ill explain 
why.
Miss S thinks The Share Centre  have been negligent and had a duty of care to contact  her 
and take instructions when they became aware of the problem. But Im not persuaded thats 
the case. The application and transfer  request dated 12 March  2018 contains a warning  to 
seek independent financial advice if you are unsure whether a Lifetime ISA is suitable  for 
you. And when Miss S signed the application  she agreed to be bound  by The Share 
Centres terms and confirming shed read the Key Facts document which also states at two 
separate points  Please  note that it is your responsibility to ensure that you have not 
exceeded your total ISA allowance  each year.  Im not told whether Miss S sought 
independent advice. But it seems to me her misunderstanding or lack of knowledge  about  
the subscription limits caused the initial problem  here. So I dont think its reasonable for 
Miss S to imply  or infer The Share Centre had a duty to offer an immediate solution  to 
problems caused  by her oversubscription when theyd given such  multiple warnings.
When Miss S completed that application  she signed a declaration and authorisation which  
included a number  of statements. Ive extracted the relevant  parts below
Ref: DRN71347363 I have not subscribed and will not subscribe more than the overall  subscription  limit 
in total to a cash  ISA, a stocks and shares ISA, an innovative finance  ISA and a 
lifetime ISA in the same  tax year
 I have not made current year payments, and will not make current year payments, 
that exceed the lifetime ISA payment limit
 I have not made current year payments or transfers from a Help to Buy ISA, and will 
not make  current year payments or transfers from a Help to Buy ISA, to another 
lifetime ISA in the same  tax year that I subscribe to this lifetime  ISA..
The declaration also stated the above  information  is true and correct but given Miss Ss 
contributions across both her HTB ISA and LISA in 2017/18 - Im not sure that was the case. 
At the point Miss S signed this declaration shed already paid £2000 of current  year 
payments for 2017/18 into her HTB ISA. Over  the next few days  she made payments into 
the LISA taking  that up to the full £4000 subscription  limit for 2017/18.  So, at that point, 
unbeknown to The Share Centre,  shed subscribed more than the overall  subscription  limit 
in total to.... a lifetime  ISA in the same tax year.  Having  signed that declaration  I think it was 
reasonable for The Share Centre  not to anticipate any oversubscription problems with the 
transfer in from Miss Ss HTB ISA. But that wasnt the case. And as The Share Centre told 
us it was their practice at the time not to oversubscribe  an account, they couldnt hold 
cheques for more than 24 hours and their terms provided for returns I can say theyve done 
anything wrong  here in returning the cheque when they did.
I know Miss S feels that The Share  Centre hasnt met their responsibilities to her but I 
disagree and I think she has to take responsibility for the oversubscription. Its clearly stated 
in the application and supporting documents that it is her responsibility to ensure she hasnt 
oversubscribed. Her signing of the declaration gave no indication  of the situation and The 
Share Centre had no way of establishing  it unless Miss S told them.  They told Miss S in an 
email on 29 March 2018 we do not have authority to ask the ceding broker  how much  
money is in an account, or how much they have subscribed. Authority is only given when the 
signed transfer request is submitted to the ceding  broker, and we will only learn  of 
subscriptions once  the transfer is near completion.  We are reliant on the client  to make us 
aware of any subscription. I dont know what would have happened  had The Share Centre 
been aware of the situation  before the transfer funds were received. The outcome mayve 
been different.  But they werent  and Ive gone on to look at the way they responded to the 
problem created by the oversubscriptions.
The email  records from both parties show The Share Centre were responsive to Miss Ss 
concerns and in trying  to find a solution. On 27 March 2018  The Share Centre first 
suggested splitting  funds but that transfers would  also have to be split across  tax years. 
Days later,  in the email of 29 March  2018, The Share Centre confirmed the solution their 
Transfers and Technical team had then suggested  - in light of other  clients  encountering 
similar problems  - which Miss S agreed  to. So I think The Share Centres actions, after the 
return of the cheque, in trying to find a way to work around the problems Miss Ss 
oversubscription had caused, were reasonable. I dont think its reasonable to hold The 
Share Centre responsible  for the failure of this transfer to complete before the end of the tax 
year. Theyve no controls over the time it takes  the other provider - or the processes they 
use - to send  back the money. And I think they warned Miss S about this on 29 March  2018 
when they told her we cannot guarantee that the transfer will be completed  before the end 
of the tax year. I understand this is not what you want  to hear, but we cannot guarantee it for 
certain. We will however do our best to make sure it is. 
Ref: DRN71347364So overall, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think The Share Centre have done anything  
wrong here so Im not going to ask them to do anything further. I know Miss S has been 
concerned by the situation and has spent time trying to resolve it. But as I dont think  thats 
due to anything  The Share Centre have  done wrong  I cant  make an award for that. But The 
Share Centre has made a goodwill offer to Miss S of £150  and Ill leave it to Miss S to decide  
whether to accept  that.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Share Centre  Limited has made a reasonable offer to resolve 
this complaint. Its now for to Miss S to decide whether to accept  the £150 goodwill  payment  
they have offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134736