K820x#14Complaint
Mr Q complains that Monzo asked him for information when he applied to open a bank 
account. He says the questions were discriminatory and caused him trouble and upset.  And 
he wants Monzo to pay him compensation.
Background
In April 2019 Mr Q applied  to open  an account with Monzo. Following his application  Monzo 
asked him some questions about where he had lived and where  he had travelled in the last 
15 years  and to confirm if he had any other citizenships. 
Mr Q was unhappy with the questions he was being  asked. He thought  the questions were  
out of the ordinary, inappropriate  and discriminatory.  So, he complained to the bank.
Monzo investigated and they said they had asked  Mr Q for more information  to comply with 
its know your customer (KYC)  process. And didnt think the questions were  discriminatory .
Mr Q was unhappy with Monzos response, so he referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  dealt with the complaint. She said Monzo hadnt done anything  
wrong. She agreed  that the questions did seem out of the ordinary but that Monzo  had a 
duty to comply with the regulations.
She said the reasons for the extra questions were  to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. Mr Q was unhappy with the investigators view. He said that Monzo could have 
checked his date of birth and passport to clarify his details and they hadnt provided him with 
the real reason for the further checks when  he asked.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Qs account. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
Monzo have said that Mr Qs account  application  was reviewed as part of their know your 
customer work to meet  these legal requirements.
I appreciate Mr Q felt Monzos  questions  were intrusive. But the bank is legally required to 
ask certain information  to ensure they understand what their accounts  are being used for. 
So, I cant say they shouldnt have asked Mr Q the questions because  its important Monzo 
have a clear understanding of the purpose  of the account.
Mr Q says the supplementary questions Monzo  asked  were discriminatory. He says that hes 
familiar with the banks  obligations under the KYC regulations. He thinks Monzo  should  have 
checked his passport and date of birth instead  of asking him these extra  questions.
Ref: DRN75528862I have also seen the extra questions that Monzo  asked Mr Q. Like the investigator,  I 
recognise some of the questions were difficult for Mr Q to answer. And that it may have 
taken him some time to collate paperwork to respond to Monzos request. But I also think 
that Mr Q is someone whos familiar  with the regulations and the banks  obligations so I think 
its likely  he would have had an understanding of the reasons  why Monzo needed  the 
information. I have  seen the email  that he sent to Monzo and he clarified  the necessary 
points for Monzo.  Following his email Monzo opened the account. So, I think Monzo acted  
promptly on the information Mr Q sent them.
Whilst I understand Mr Q s strength of feeling,  businesses  have a legal obligation to ensure 
that their customers are who they say they are, to protect the security of their accounts and 
to comply with various laws and regulations. Mr Q agreed to this term as a customer,  and it 
is a reasonable  term. So, I agree that Mono  was entitled to ask him to provide more  
information and to see his documents, even  though  it had seen some of the information 
before. So, I cant say Monzo has done anything wrong.
I can appreciate that Mr Q found  the questions to be intrusive,  annoying and unclear and he 
would rather not have had to answer them. But Ive already said that Monzo has procedures 
it must  follow to comply with its legal  and regulatory obligations. And Im satisfied that is what 
it was doing when it asked Mr Q the additional  questions to open  the account.  So, I dont 
think it has done anything  wrong. I know that Mr Q thinks  hes been  discriminated against by 
being asked these questions, but Ive seen  no evidence  of this.
Mr Q has mentioned that he tried to open an account with a different bank I will call bank S, 
at around the same  time and they didnt ask him any supplementary questions. I appreciate  
that this may have  made Mr Q concerned that Monzo were doing something wrong in asking 
him these  questions. But different institutions  have different internal processes and 
procedures, so I dont  think Monzo did anything wrong in asking the extra  questions of Mr Q.
In summary,  I dont think that the questions asked  of Mr Q were discriminatory. Im satisfied  
Monzo were  following its own internal procedures and complying with its regulatory  
obligations and so I will not be asking them to do anything else 
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7552886