K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) because it declined  
their claim for medical treatment.
background
Mr and Mrs E have  an annual health  insurance  policy with AXA.  In June 2017,  Mrs E was 
diagnosed with adenoid carcinoma (a form of cancer  around  the saliva glands). RapidArc 
radiation therapy  was recommended  by Mrs Es doctor and treatment for this was to be 
carried out in the UK. The doctor  also suggested Mrs E considers proton beam therapy as 
there were fewer side effects.  This treatment  wasnt available  in the UK, but it was available 
in the Czech Republic.
In June 2017, Mrs E contacted AXA to find out if it could pay for the proton beam therapy 
under their policy. AXA asked for a specialist medical report so it could be referred to its 
medical advisory team. At the same  time,  it also explained to Mrs E that proton beam  
therapy wasnt a treatment covered by AXA. Once  the report was sent in, AXA considered  it 
and said it wouldnt provide cover to Mrs E for the proton beam therapy. AXA explained that 
it couldnt cover Mrs E because this therapy was a new form of radiation which wasnt 
available in the UK to all patients. It also said the policy provided cover for treatment  in the 
UK only.
Mrs E decided to go ahead with the proton beam  therapy  in the Czech Republic in 
August 2017.  Mr and Mrs E asked AXA again  to cover the treatment. She provided  a letter  
from her treating doctor  there,  which explained how well she was recovering and the benefits  
of the treatment. However,  AXA responded and reconfirmed it couldnt provide  cover for two 
reasons. The first reason was that Mr and Mrs Es policy  only provided cover  for treatment 
carried out in the UK and as the proton beam  therapy  was only available  in the Czech 
Republic there was no cover.  The second reason was that the proton beam therapy wasnt 
considered to be a conventional form of treatment  and was unproven.  Any such  unproven 
treatment had to be first authorised by AXA and the treatment had to be carried  out in the 
UK. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs E referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He concluded that he didnt think  
AXA had been  unreasonable in declining the claim,  particularly as Mrs E didnt have the 
level of cover that allowed for treatment outside  of the UK. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree with the investigator  and has asked for an ombudsman to make  a 
decision. So the case has been passed to me. In summary, they say the decision isnt fair 
because the investigator has relied  on the terms and conditions of the policy.  He hasnt 
taken account  of the human suffering, the benefits  of minimising that suffering or the long 
term side effects of the radiation compared to the proton therapy. They say theyve asked 
AXA to only meet the claim  of the treatment  itself but not for any of the additional expenses 
they incurred for flights and hotel expenses. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78874572I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs E have been through a difficult  time.  I also understand the 
decision they took to get Mrs Es treatment carried out in the Czech  Republic would not have 
been taken lightly.  
In making my decision, Ive considered their comments and particularly, that they believe the 
investigator has relied on the terms and conditions of the policy more than the human aspect 
of their circumstances.  Ive read Mr Es submissions about  the benefits  and lesser  side 
effects of the treatment  they sought  out. But our role is not to weigh up the benefits of one 
treatment over another. It is simply to determine whether or not the claim has been  fairly 
declined, in other words  is the treatment being  claimed for covered under the policy.  
I have to inevitably therefore look at what the terms and conditions of the policy are. I can 
see that Mr and Mrs E were only ever covered  for treatment in the UK. Theyve agreed to 
pay for a certain level of cover and, in return, AXA has agreed to cover them  for treatment 
within the UK. So while I appreciate Mr and Mrs E wanted AXA to authorise Mrs Es 
treatment to be carried out in the Czech Republic, as far as I can see, that would  never have 
happened as Mr and Mrs E didnt ever had that level of cover on their policy.  Im satisfied 
therefore that based on the level of cover  they actually had, AXA hasnt acted unreasonably 
in declining the claim. 
Ive also looked  to see what the terms of the policy say about  unproven  treatment 
(treatment that isnt considered conventional). The term says:
What happens if my specialist says I need treatment that is not conventional treatment?
We know our members may want  to have access to developing treatments as they become 
available. So, we will consider covering the following  treatment  when it is carried  out by a 
specialist:
surgery not listed and identified  in the schedule  of procedures and fees; and 
other treatments and diagnostic tests which  are not conventional treatments. 
The cover  for unproven treatment is more  restrictive than for conventional treatments.  
Unproven treatment  must:
be authorised by us before it takes place
take place in the UK
be agreed by us as a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment.
Do I need to let you know if I want unproven treatment? 
Yes, if you would like an unproven treatment you or your specialist must contact us at least 10 
working days before you book that treatment.  This is so we can:
obtain  full details of the treatment
support you with additional information  and questions for your specialist, before you 
have treatment  
agree what costs (if any) we will meet, see important points below. All unproven 
treatment must be agreed by us in writing, so you are clear before  having treatment 
of any shortfall you may have  to pay to the hospital and/or the specialist.
My understanding is that Mrs Es doctor advised her that she would receive the RapidArc 
radiation therapy.  But the doctor  also suggested  that proton beam therapy was a possibility 
for her but it wasnt available in the UK. So Mrs E contacted  AXA and sent it her medical 
report. After review, AXA decided it wouldnt cover Mrs E. 
The information available on the Cancer Research  UK website about  proton beam  therapy 
says:
Ref: DRN78874573The UK is also very evidence-driven, and currently there isnt a huge amount of evidence,  at 
the moment, that protons give better outcomes than conventional radiotherapy.
Researchers have been developing and refining conventional radiotherapy  for many decades,  
but proton beam  therapy  hasnt been around  for as long. That means we dont yet have the 
same strong  evidence  base for this treatment to show which cancers it could offer benefits  
for, and few long-term clinical studies  to look for side effects later in life.
Mrs E called AXA in June 2017 to ask whether they would be covered for treatment in Czech  
Republic. AXA reviewed the report and their medical  team  confirmed they would not pay for 
the proton  beam therapy in Czech Republic. Even so, Mrs E decided  that she would go 
ahead with the treatment. I accept this was their decision, but the fact they still went ahead 
without agreement from AXA, suggests to me that they were prepared  to take the risk of 
potentially not receiving approval  and payment for the costs of that treatment.  So, regardless 
of what they had been told by AXA initially, Mr and Mrs E still decided to have the treatment 
in Czech Republic. 
Looking at the information Mr E has provided  I can appreciate  why they made  the choice to 
have treatment outside the UK. But I cant ask AXA to act outside of the contract it made  
with them  and pay for this. The perceived  benefits of this treatment dont  change  the fact that 
it simply isnt covered under the terms. So while I do appreciate  the human aspect Mr and 
Mrs E referred to, this isnt something that I can allow to change the outcome in this case.
Overall, I cant see that AXA has done  anything wrong. According  to the terms and 
conditions of the policy, Mrs E wasnt ever covered  for treatment outside of the UK. And 
even if she was, the treatment she was asking  for, was considered  unproven. Im satisfied 
that AXA did consider Mrs Es medical  report and followed the correct process in referring it 
to the medical  team. The report was considered but treatment wasnt  approved.  Ultimately, 
Mr and Mrs E only ever paid for treatment to be carried  out in the UK and it follows they 
werent ever covered  for the treatment carried out in the UK. So Im not persuaded that AXA 
treated Mr and Mrs E unfairly or unreasonably  in declining  their claim for medical  treatment 
and I dont require  it to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint against AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7887457