K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Oodle Financial Services Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject  the 
vehicle.
background
Mr D tells us he acquired  the vehicle in January 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to as G. A little 
over a month later he says he suffered a puncture. Mr D explains that he took the vehicle to 
a local garage  but it was unable to fix the problem or refit the tyre due to some previous  bad 
welding on the vehicle.  So the vehicle was returned to G. Mr D says that G kept the vehicle  
for several  weeks and changed all the tyres. But he still didnt feel the vehicle was safe.  So 
he stopped making  his finance payments. He says Oodle is now using solicitors to chase 
him for the payments.
Oodle told us that after Mr D complained  to it in early April 2019  it had contacted  G. It said 
that G advised the vehicle  had been repaired and was ready for collection. It said that Mr D 
had continued  to claim the vehicle was unsafe  - but hadnt provided any further information. 
And that hed abandoned the vehicle at Gs. Oodle also said that in recognition of the poor 
service level Mr D had received and the period for which the vehicle was under repair itd 
agreed to refund him £361.17. This included  the cost of the initial tow charge (£81)  and 
diagnostic test (£49.99).
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that Oodle had 
been entitled to have  the vehicle repaired.  And that this had been  done. He said that whilst 
Mr D had complained  about further issues with the vehicle he hadnt supplied  evidence to 
demonstrate this. He felt Oodles offer of compensation  was fair and reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree with this outcome. He says the vehicle was unsafe when it was sold to 
him. As its not been possible  to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans  been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that things didnt  work out as Mr D intended when he acquired  this vehicle. And I 
understand its disappointing  when  things go wrong.  Unfortunately, this is more  likely to 
happen with older vehicles  such as this. It was about 10 years old when supplied to Mr D.
Mr Ds hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Oodle supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This requires  that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN75394502Here theres no dispute that the vehicle  went in for repairs  a few weeks  after being acquired 
by Mr D. And apparently  these repairs took several more  weeks  to complete due to the 
difficulty in obtaining  the required parts. But Ive seen that Mr D was later told on several 
occasions that the vehicle  had been repaired and that no further faults  had been  found. 
Despite this Mr D chose  to stop payments and leave  the vehicle with G. I understand that 
Oodle has now terminated the agreement and taken steps to recover  it from Gs premises.
Where goods are found not to be of satisfactory quality when supplied the CRA provides 
consumers with the right to reject those goods subject to certain conditions.  Normally an 
issue with tyres would be considered to be a wear  and tear issue  and so wouldnt engage 
CRA rights. But it seems that the problem here was a bit more complex than simply a 
puncture. Whilst Ive seen  no independent confirmation of the exact cause of the problem I 
think its reasonable to infer that it caused the vehicle not to be of satisfactory  quality when 
supplied. I dont think Oodle wouldve  paid for recovery  charges and made a refund for loss 
of use if it had thought the issue was simply down to a routine maintenance issue.
The short term right to reject faulty goods needs  to be exercised within 30 days  of supply. 
After this period  the supplier is permitted an opportunity  to repair  the goods. If those repairs  
dont restore the vehicle to a condition  where it conforms  to contract  then the final right to 
reject the item arises. 
Here the fault was notified to Oodle  more than 30 days after supply  and repairs were 
undertaken. Oodle  notified Mr D theyd been completed but he declined  to collect  the 
vehicle. In order to justifiably reject the vehicle after the repairs had been completed it was 
necessary for Mr D to show the repairs had failed. And that the vehicle hadnt been restored 
so that it was of satisfactory quality. Other than his assertions that this was the case  hes not 
provided any plausible information to support this.
In those circumstances I dont think he had the right to reject  the vehicle. I think that Oodle  
has dealt with the complaint fairly  and that its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
As the vehicle had been repaired it was entitled  to expect that Mr D would comply with the 
terms of the finance  agreement. As he didnt do so, Oodle was entitled to take reasonable 
steps to recover the payments it was owed.
Im sure Mr D will be disappointed with my decision not to uphold his complaint.  But I think  
the steps taken  by Oodle to have the vehicle repaired and provide  him with compensation to 
the degree it did was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7539450