K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Canada Square  Operations  Limited  (CSO) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card online.   
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
I think CSO  made  Mr W aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I understand why he can no longer remember this. When Mr W applied  for the card 
he did so online.  CSO  has shown us that, as part of that application, Mr W was asked to say 
yes or no to confirm  if he wanted PPI or not. CSO says the online application  process 
wouldnt allow him to continue without making a choice. 
Mr W says the screenshot we sent him of this part of the process is generic and doesnt 
prove he opted to buy the PPI. I appreciate that, but we do know  that this was an automated  
system. Furthermore,  CSO sent us all the information it captured  during Mr Ws application, 
which includes things such as his name  and address,  salary  etc. Those are all pieces of 
information only Mr W could have provided. Im satisfied this information was captured 
accurately, because Mr W got a credit  card. And I think if that information was correct  then 
its more than likely the information on buying the PPI was correct too. Overall Im satisfied 
Mr W must  have chosen yes for the PPI to be added to his account.  
CSO didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
Its possible the information CSO gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have  
been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W would have made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN77164082Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7716408