K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs W says Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
M&S had to make Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs W applied  for her card 
but M&S  has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. The application form Mrs W 
completed when  she applied for her card had a separate section  for PPI that Mrs W has 
signed separately form agreeing to the card to take the policy.  So with this in mind I think 
M&S made it clear  that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had available of 
making her repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to Mrs Ws sick pay and for longer.  The policy would also have protected 
Mrs Ws savings  so they could have been  used  towards any other essential expenses  she 
may have  had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But M&S has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  M&S didnt tell Mrs W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN71771202my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Mrs W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7177120