K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Attivio Financial Services Limited failed to advise him to stop paying the 
premium on his Whole-of-Life (WOL) policy.
background
Mr M took out a WOL policy on a joint-life,  second  death basis  with his wife, Mrs M for which 
a yearly premium was paid in August  of each year. Mr Ms financial adviser retired in 2013 
and his business was taken over by Attivio.  Mrs M died in May 2014 and Mr M continued to 
pay the yearly premium of £11,543 for the next three  years  following her death. Payments 
were stopped as from 1 August 2017 and the policy made paid-up at that point.
I issued a provisional on this complaint, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In summary  I made the following findings:
Mr M was a client within  the meaning set out in the rules  as from the end of 2013 
when Ativio took over the business  of his previous IFA, but that doesnt mean that it 
had to provide  him with advice before obtaining  up-to-date information  about his 
needs and circumstances.
Ativio  did obtain up to date information about  the policy from the policy provider in 
April 2014 but it couldnt provide advice based  on this alone.
Ativio  wrote to Mr M in December  2013 and made clear the importance of a review 
meeting but no meeting took place until January 2016. I have seen no evidence  that 
Mr M wanted an earlier meeting and there  is some evidence  he was still using his 
previous adviser.
I dont think Ativio had a duty to advise Mr M until the meeting of January 2016 and 
on that basis, it isnt responsible for the premium payments in 2014  and 2015.
I think Mr Ms decision in 2016  that he didnt need advice about his policy  was based  
on what the adviser said about  the policy which indicated he didnt need to change  
anything, as the policy covered  his IHT liability.
The adviser knew the significant value  in the policy,  that it was unlikely Mr M would 
need to increase his cover, that he was 83 at the time and that the excess of cover  
for his IHT liability was significant.
In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable to have expected the adviser 
to have considered  the possibility the policy  could  be made paid-up and have brought  
this to the attention of Mr M in 2016.
Ativio  should repay the 2016  premium  together with simple  interest to settlement.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Ativio accepted my provisional decision, 
save that it didnt  think it should pay the interest I had awarded for the whole period until 
settlement, given the time between the investigators  opinion  and my provisional  decision.
Mr M agreed  with my finding that Ativio  should  repay the premium for 2016  but also thought 
it should repay the premium for the other two years. In summary he said the following:
The introductory letter  from Ativio  dated 20 December 2013  referred  to how delighted 
it was that his previous IFA had selected  it to provide an ongoing  service.
He had an initial meeting with one person at Ativio in January 2014 whose role was 
to introduce the firm to him.
He had a meeting  with a financial adviser at Ativio in February 2014 but at the time 
was dealing with his wifes health issues and accepts he didnt have the appetite, 
Ref: DRN72730712desire or concentration  to make changes to his investments. And the same  applied 
immediately after his wifes death in May 2014.
He was reassured by the letter of 20 December 2013 and understood it to mean that 
if there was an issue he needed  to address, he would be alerted. 
If Ativio had contacted  him in June or July 2014 and said there  was an issue with his 
August premium for the policy  and they needed  a meeting  he wouldve agreed  to 
that.
COBS rules requires advisers  to be fair clear  and not misleading  with clients and he 
cant think of anything  more misleading  than saying you are going to provide an 
ongoing service  and then protesting there is no obligation to advise or alert a client to 
a particular situation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the point made  by Ativio about the time between  the investigators  opinion 
and my provisional decision. But I think  that is an issue between it and us and it isnt 
something that I think should  affect  the award to Mr M. It is our normal  approach  to award 
interest for being  deprived of money  for the whole period  in question and I dont think  it 
appropriate to depart from that.
I have considered the points made  by Mr M and note that he did have two meetings in 2014. 
But neither  of these  was the review meeting that Ativio made clear  it needed in its letter  of 20 
December 2013.  
I acknowledge why Mr M didnt want to go through his finances in the first part of 2014. But 
regardless of the reason,  as a result of that Ativio  didnt  have  the information it needed to be 
able to identify  any particular issue that it needed  to discuss  with him  the information from 
the policy provider  wasnt enough by itself.
I note Mr Ms reference to the COBS rules requiring a firm to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information. But I dont agree with him that it was misleading for Ativio to have 
said his previous adviser had selected it to provide  an ongoing service and not then advise 
him. As I have already  said, Ativio  wasnt in position  to provide such  advice until it had met 
with him and obtained up-to-date information about  his needs and circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  in my provisional decision and 
above. Ativio  Financial Services Limited  has to pay to Mr M the 2016 premium payment in 
the sum of £11,543 together with simple  interest on that amount at 8% per annum from the 
date of payment  in 2016 to the date of settlement. It also has to pay him £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72730713COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Attivio  Financial Services Limited  failed to advise him to stop paying the premium 
on his Whole-of-Life (WOL)  policy.
background
Mr M took out a WOL policy  on a joint life second death basis with his wife, Mrs M for which a yearly  
premium was paid in August  of each year. Mr Ms financial adviser retired in 2013 and his business 
was taken  over by Attivio.  Mrs M died in May 2014 and Mr M continued  to pay the yearly  premium of 
£11,543 for the next three years following her death. Payments were  stopped as from 1 August  2017 
and the policy made paid-up at that point.
Mr M complained because he thinks that Attivio shouldve advised him to stop the payments in 2014. 
In its final response to the complaint Attivio said that Mr M never  wanted his protection  needs 
considered and that its advice had been limited to his investments. 
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She said that 
she had seen  no evidence  that Attivio was responsible  for advising Mr M about the policy. She noted  
that the suitability report it had provided dated  11 February  2016 stated that his estate was over the 
current IHT threshold and he had life cover of £1 million written in trust that more than covered this. 
But she didnt think that Attivio was asked to review  this cover so didnt think it was responsible for the 
premiums Mr M paid until he made the policy  paid-up.
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicator. In summary  he made the following  points:
Attivio  wrote to him in December  2013 promising a comprehensive review of his finances and 
there was no suggestion  this would  be limited.
Attivio  thoroughly investigated his policy in April/May 2014, which they wouldnt have done if 
they hadnt expected to consider the information and provide advice on the policy.
Mrs M died on 17 May 2014 and he wasnt told he had the option of stopping payments and 
this wasnt something he was aware he could do at the time.
He paid the premiums  for 2014 and 2015 because he wasnt advised  not to.
In February  2016  Attivio provided  formal advice but concluded he didnt want advice about his 
WOL policy. He didnt  question this because he had no idea there was any issue to consider. 
There will be some cases where  it will not be right to stop paying premiums. But in his case 
the substantial surrender value  in relation to the sum assured and his advanced  age means  
Attivio shouldve at least advised  this should  be reviewed and if they had presented the 
figures to him, he wouldve stopped  the payments.
The information from the provider shows that from 2018 a return of only 1.5% was necessary  
for the policy to provide  cover for 16 years with no further premium payments  at which  point 
he would be 101. The backdated figures arent available  but the information as of 2018 is 
pretty telling.
There was then further  correspondence  between  Attivio  and the adjudicator  and Mr M and the 
adjudicator as to when  Mr M became a client. In short  Attivio argues that he didnt become a client  
until he signed the client agreement in January 2016 and Mr M argues  he became  a client upon 
Attivio taking over the business of the previous adviser in 2013. Both parties made  various  points in 
support of what they said but I dont think it is necessary to set these  out. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72730714I note the issue that has arisen as to whether Mr M was or wasnt a client before January  2016 and I 
think it is worth clarifying  that point. In doing so I have taken account  of the various  points made  by 
the parties.
The term client is set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook rules  (COBS) as seen in the 
Handbook of the industry regulator the FCA.  
In short COBS  3.2.1 defines  a client as:
(1)A person  to whom a firm provides, intends to provide or has provided: 
(a)a service in the course of carrying  out a regulated  activity.
(b)a client is defined as a person  to whom a firm provides 
(2)A client includes a potential  client.
Given Attivio took over the business of Mr Ms previous IFA in 2013 and that it contacted him in 
December 2013 to try and arrange a meeting so it could  review his finances I think it is clear  Mr M 
was a client within the above definition. 
Attivio has certain overall responsibilities to its clients, such as a duty to treat them  fairly and provide 
clear information. But just because Mr M was client within the above definition  does not mean Ativio 
had a duty to provide  him with advice. Providing advice to a client isnt something that a business  can 
be expected to do without  first obtaining up-to-date information  as to the clients needs and 
circumstances  as these  can and do change. And I think it was reasonable for it to want  to meet with 
Mr M to get this information. 
Giving advice without such information  is more  likely than not going to be a be a breach  of a 
businesss duty to the client, and of its regulatory obligations, as there is no way for it to know whether  
such advice is suitable  without that information.
  
Attivios initial  letter dated 20 December 2013 explained  that someone would be in contact to arrange  
a meeting to ensure it held up-to-date  information about  him and his holdings and that it would then 
undertake a comprehensive review of his current financial situation, objectives and attitude to risk. 
This is what I wouldve  expected  Attivio to do before giving any advice. 
Ativio did obtain current information about the policy  from the provider in April 2014. But it couldnt  
provide advice on that information alone.  And its letter  of December 2013 emphasised the importance 
of the review meeting. I dont  think it was appropriate for Attivio to provide advice to Mr M until it had 
met with him to understand his current needs and circumstances. 
It didnt meet with Mr M until January 2016. I have seen no evidence that Mr M wanted an earlier  
meeting that Attivio failed to arrange. I have seen an email dated February 2015 from the previous 
adviser to Attivio asking for it to send Mr M up to date valuations for his investments prior to a meeting 
he was having with Mr M. So, there is some evidence that he was still using  the services  of his 
previous adviser despite his previous advisers  retirement and transfer of business to Attivio  in 2013.
Based on the information I have seen I dont think Attivio had any duty to advise Mr M before it saw 
him in January 2016. On that basis I dont think it is responsible for the premiums he paid in 2014 and 
2015. 
That leaves the 2016 premium payment. Attivio argues that Mr M only wanted advice on his 
investments. I have considered the fact find completed in January 2016 and acknowledge that it 
records that Mr M only wanted advice  on his investments and didnt  want advice on his protection 
needs. 
But to some extent whether  a client thinks  they need advice depends  on what  information  the adviser 
provides to them. I think there was some discussion about the policy and the adviser did provide 
Ref: DRN72730715information about it - there is reference to it in the advisers notes in the fact find and also in the 
suitability letter sent in February 2016 confirming the advice from the meeting.
The notes state:
In trust for sons for IHT. 600k value in policy  but death cover wont accrue  so will keep in place
The suitability letter confirmed comments on the IHT position under other  areas and states that Mr M 
has life cover with a sum assured of £1 million  which is more than sufficient.
Based on what the fact find and suitability letter  show Mr M is likely to have  understood from the 
discussion with the adviser that his policy covered his IHT liability. Given  the information the adviser 
provided to him Mr M had no reason to think that he needed  any advice about  it. In other words, I 
think Mr Ms decision that he didnt want advice  about  the policy was based on the information he was 
given by the adviser  which  simply indicated that nothing needed  to change.
But Im not satisfied that the adviser  gave him all the information he shouldve done. The adviser 
knew the significant value  in the policy and that it was unlikely Mr M would need to increase his level 
of cover in the future   so that he wouldnt need to use any of the value in the policy  for that purpose.
He also wouldve known that; Mr M was 83 at the time of the advice; the policy had accrued a 
significant value around £600,000;  and the excess of cover over the potential IHT liability  was also 
significant  Mr Ms estate  was around £1.6 million and even if he only had his own nil-rate  band 
available his potential  IHT liability  in 2016 was only around £510,000 as against  a sum assured of just 
short of £954,000.
In the circumstances I dont think it is unreasonable to have expected the adviser to have considered 
the possibility that Mr M could make the policy paid-up and to have brought this to his attention.  If it 
had discussed this with Mr M I think he would,  more likely  than not, have made  the policy  paid up in 
2016 - as he actually did, in 2017, after discussion  with a new adviser.
In the circumstances I think Attivio should  repay Mr M the 2016 premium  payment in the sum of 
£11,543 together with simple  interest on that amount at 8% per annum  from the date of payment in 
2016 to the date of settlement.
I also think  Mr M has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result  of what Attivio got 
wrong and I think it should pay £200 for this. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent I have explained. Attivio Financial Services Limited must  pay the 
redress I have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7273071