K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains, via her father Mr W, that her claim for malicious damage to her property 
under her Landlords Unoccupied Insurance Policy  has been unfairly declined  by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).
background
Mr W said the property was broken into and a tap left on - which flooded the whole house, 
and mould has since  developed. He said L&G initially  told them they werent  insured, but a 
loss adjuster inspected  the property and said the damage is malicious - so L&G then agreed 
to reconsider the claim.  Mr W said nothing happened after that and he complained to L&G.
L&G said the claim was notified on 7 November  2018 and it sent its loss adjuster  to assess 
and report on the damage. L&G said the loss adjuster  established that the property was 
unoccupied and was in the process  of being put up for sale. L&G said it declined the claim 
on the basis that the policy didnt  cover malicious  damage when the property  is unoccupied.  
L&Gs agent  said it then transpired the wrong policy wording had been used and the correct 
policy offered cover  for malicious damage. L&Gs agent said it would reconsider  Ms Ws 
claim and it didnt think the delay would have  a significant impact  on the claim.
L&G said Mr W had told it the property was tenanted  until April 2018 and he then arranged 
unoccupied property insurance  as it needed  updating and some leaks  had to be fixed . L&G 
said Ms W decided  to sell the property and a survey  in September  identified some  problems. 
Mr W said when  he went to the property  in November he discovered  the flooring  and walls  
were wet, the kitchen  ceiling had come down and the bath had come through the floor. 
Mr W said he found the bath was full of water, but the taps were turned off. He said the back 
door was locked and a neighbour had nailed the door closed.  He said an upstairs window 
was open and the handle  was missing. L&Gs agent said Mr W told it that someone may 
have been using the property, but he couldnt explain how they were  entering and leaving 
and he held all the keys. It said Mr W thought the damage had been caused deliberately, but 
couldnt explain why given there  were  no contents  inside and taps hadnt been left on. 
L&Gs agent  said Mr W couldnt say that any inspections had been carried out as required by 
the policy. The water  hadnt been  turned off at the mains  as required and the survey showed 
the property wasnt  well maintained, and water  had penetrated the flooring beneath the bath.
L&Gs agent  said there was no evidence to show the property had been forcibly entered as 
both doors  were secured and a ladder would be required to access  the open  window. It said 
this meant  the damage wasnt malicious.  It said that it appeared a dripping tap had caused 
the damage and the policy exclusion for wear  and tear applied:
'we will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, costs or expense  of any kind directly or
indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp,
rising damp, rising water table, insects,  vermin,  fungus, condensation,  rot, fading, frost or
anything that happens gradually, the process  of cleaning, dyeing,  repair, alteration,
renovation, restoration  or anything reaching  the end of its serviceable life.'
The policy carries a further  exclusion for water escaping from failed sealant or grouting.
Ref: DRN74339532L&G declined the claim saying that the terms and conditions of the policy hadnt been 
complied with and it hadnt  been  able to confirm that correct information  had been provided 
or that an incident  covered by the policy had occurred.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said the loss adjuster found 
nothing to show entry via an open upstairs  window and Mr W had said the taps werent  on 
when he discovered  the damage. She said the loss adjuster noted the extent of the mould 
growth and thought this showed the water damage happened some  while  before discovery.
The investigator said the policy allowed claims for malicious  damage,  but the policyholder 
had to prove this. She didnt think someone  would get in to fill the bath to cause damage,  but 
then turn off the taps. And both the doors  were  locked  with no evidence  of how someone 
would access the upstairs  window. She said the survey report  Mr W provided indicates a 
previous water escape via defective  sealant,  which resulted in dampness and mould.  She 
thought the damage was caused by wear and tear and this was excluded by the policy.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigator. He said he would try and obtain  a police report about  
the damage to prove that it was malicious, and said the bath had been left to overflow  until it 
collapsed through the ceiling. Mr W requested an ombudsman review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide if L&G has treated Ms W fairly in declining her claim for damage to her 
property. In doing this I have  considered the terms of her Landlords  Unoccupied Policy.  And 
Ive looked carefully  at all of the available evidence to see what  is more  likely than not to 
have happened  concerning the damage to her property. 
Ms Ws claim was initially ruled outside  the policys cover and then considered  under the 
malicious damage section  of the policy. There is disagreement between the parties as to 
who described the damage  as potentially malicious. I dont think  anything turns on this as I 
cant see anything to show  the damage  was caused maliciously  I will explain why. 
The parties agree that the property  was empty and unoccupied at the time of the claim. This 
in itself can make a property a target  for vandals.  However, it doesnt seem  plausible to me 
that someone would  break in, fill the bath then turn the taps off, and Mr W hasnt explained 
why this might have happened. And theres no evidence of forcible entry  or exit and both 
doors remained locked  with Mr W in possession of the keys.
Mr W provided a copy of police documents, but these only appear to be a note of Mr W 
reporting a crime  rather than a report of the polices findings. The note of Mr Ws call shows  
that Mr W considered the damage to his daughters property to have been malicious. If Mr W 
obtains a police report, I think L&G should  consider this in connection with this claim.
I have considered an alternative cause for the damage - an escape of water  for which  the 
policy provides cover.  Because  the property  was unoccupied the policy  requires the water 
system to be turned  off at the mains and drained so as to remove the likelihood of damage 
from this cause. This requirement  applied at the time of the claim and its clear  Mr W hadnt 
turned the water  off and so was in breach of the policy condition.
Ref: DRN74339533Notwithstanding this, Ive reviewed the comments made in the reports  provided  by L&Gs  
loss adjuster and the survey report provided at Mr Ws request about the property. Both of 
these found mould  growth and evidence of previous  escapes of water.  Consequently,  I think 
it's more  likely than not that water had been  penetrating  the floor underneath the bath over a 
period of time, leading to the failure of the flooring and the wetness of the walls. Its not clear 
to me why Mr W hadnt turned the water off as required by the policy,  but it looks likely the 
damage occurred  over a period of some  time.
Insurers exclude claims for wear and tear so as to distinguish an insurance policy covering  
specified perils from a maintenance contract  with a builder to address running repairs. The 
evidence suggests  there was previous  damp and water ingress  and this needed to be fixed  
as with any maintenance issue. This led L&G to say the damage  was caused over a period 
of time and this was excluded by the wear and tear clause of the policy (above).
In conclusion, I dont  think its likely  that the damage was caused  by someone acting 
maliciously. I think the problem built up gradually over time from leaks  of water and this is 
clearly excluded by the wear and tear clause within the policy.  It follows  that I think  L&G has 
acted in accordance  with the terms of the policy and treated  Ms W fairly in declining the 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433953