K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2002. Mrs C says Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From  the copy credit  card application  form provided, Im satisfied  that M&S made it clear 
to Mrs C that she didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  
although I can understand if she cant remember this now. Ive havent seen enough 
evidence to show that she was pressured by M&S  as she suggests. 
Ive not seen anything to make  me think M&S gave a personal recommendation to Mrs C 
about the PPI despite the wording regarding PPI on the credit  card application form. So it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information M&S gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I believe she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover.
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But M&S will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:  
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs C about  that. Because M&S didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
M&S has to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. M&S should also pay back to Mrs C any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
M&S should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs C the difference  between  
what Mrs C owes  and what she would have owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
Ref: DRN74723942hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. M&S should also pay Mrs C 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off her credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7472394