K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage in 2000. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
The records from the time show that Bank  of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs H information 
about the PPI at the same time as discussing their mortgage and other products such  as 
home insurance. This was confirmed in a letter to them on 16 June 2000 which  included  
quotations for the cost of PPI depending  on which mortgage product they took out. 
On 19 June 2000 Mr and Mrs H signed  an application form specifically for the PPI  
which included answers to questions specifically about their circumstances, such as their 
eligibility for the policy  and their health.  So I think Bank of Scotland  made Mr and Mrs H 
aware that they had a choice about  buying the MPPI, and they chose to take it. 
Mr and Mrs H say PPI wasnt discussed  and they thought they were just signing for the 
mortgage. But I think its more likely  that the PPI was discussed and agreed to, and Mr 
and Mrs H have since forgotten about  it. That would be understandable  given how long 
ago it was. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H, and it seems  to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. While  they had 
some sick pay through their work  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer 
(up to 24 months per claim). This wouldve ensured  they didnt fall behind with their 
mortgage repayments or risk losing their home. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the application form and in an earlier  quotation that 
was sent to them. So I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve  understood how much they would 
need to pay for it. 
Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mr and Mrs H dont appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
Ref: DRN77196582Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what  theyve said about  Bank  of 
Scotlands conduct while investigating their complaint. But these points dont  change  my 
conclusion. I understand Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with how phone calls were handled 
when Bank  of Scotland called to get their recollections of the time of sale. But this has no 
bearing on whether  or not the PPI was mis-sold.  I understand Bank of Scotland has already 
apologised and provided additional training to those  involved. So I dont think  it needs  to do 
any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7719658