K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  He says it was added to his account without his knowledge.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in November 2005.  The policy was 
added to Mr Bs credit  card account  when he applied for the card in person. The policy  cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Halifax  made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mr B signed in 2005 and I can 
see he chose to take out PPI and signed a section of the agreement to confirm  this. 
And as PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly  credit card statements, had it been 
added to Mr Bs account  without  either  his knowledge  or his consent, I wouldve 
expected him to query this soon  after the credit card account opened.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time. I say this because  Mr B 
wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy 
less useful for his, such as being  self-employed or having  a pre-existing medical 
condition. Whilst Mr B had some sick pay; six months  full pay followed by six months 
half pay, I believe the policy provided  his with a sufficient  benefit, which outweighed its 
cost.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it wouldve been  useful for him if he wasnt  working 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment as he had limited work benefits   
this policy wouldve paid out in addition to these.  It also looks like it was affordable. So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr B 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already given Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think 
it needs to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN78543182my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7854318