K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss C say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr L and Miss C took out a mortgage with Bank  of Scotland  in July 1996.  The policy cost 
£12.45 per month and covered them for £250  per month, for up to 12 months per successful 
claim for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The benefit was split equally between  them.  
Mr L and Miss C later bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  in 2002 when they 
were taking out further borrowing. The PPI part of the policy cost £15.80 per month for 
£261.16 per month of cover.  They  were  both equally covered under this policy. The policy 
wouldve covered  them for up to 24 months per successful claim for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. They also took out life and critical illness cover, but Im just dealing with the 
PPI part of the policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L and Miss C disagreed,  so their complaint 
was passed to me. They said they had no recollection of taking out PPI or the further 
mortgages through Halifax after they took out the first one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what  we know about 
how Bank of Scotland sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr L and Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
1996 sale
Bank of Scotland hasnt got all the paperwork from the sale.  But this isnt surprising as it was 
so long ago. Banks often  only keep records for six years.  Based on the limited information 
still available, and what we know about Bank of Scotlands sales processes around this time 
from dealing with other cases, I dont have enough to fairly conclude  that Mr L and Miss C 
werent told PPI was optional. I think it more  likely  that they were told they didnt have to 
have PPI, and chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN71504722Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI for Mr L and Miss C, so it had to make sure it was 
suitable. Overall, I think the PPI was suitable, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
they were eligible  to take out the policy.
Mr L said he was entitled  to at least 3 months worth of sick pay and redundancy pay. 
Miss C said she wouldve got at least 3 months  worth of sick pay too. However,  the 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits for up to 12 months per successful 
claim. So, I still think the PPI couldve been  useful  to them,  particularly as it was 
safeguarding their home.
they said they had some  savings and family wouldve helped  out with their 
repayments. PPI wouldve  allowed them  to use their savings  to meet  their other  living 
expenses, if one of them wasnt working.  I accept their family  may have wanted to 
help, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes.  So, I 
havent placed much reliance on this. 
the policy appeared affordable and the monthly premium  couldve been cancelled at 
any time without them  losing out financially.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr L and Miss C all the information they needed  
before they decided  to buy PPI. But, as Ive said above, it appears  to have been affordable. I 
also dont know when  Bank of Scotland first pointed out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But as neither Mr L nor Miss C were affected  by any of the main  limitations  or 
exclusions in the policy,  I dont think having  better information  about  these  things wouldve 
changed their decision  to buy it.
So, I cant see that this policy  was mis-sold.
2006 sale
Bank of Scotland hasnt got all the paperwork from this sale.  Again this isnt surprising as it 
was so long ago. 
Based on what we know about  the banks sales process at the time, I think  its most likely 
Mr L and Miss C wouldve  had to complete a separate TMPP application form selecting the 
elements of the cover they wanted,  after a discussion with the bank.  Based  on what theyve  
said, I think Mr L and Miss C wouldve  understood  they didnt have to have PPI, but chose  to 
take it, having been advised to do so.
Mr Ls circumstances were  largely the same in 2006  as they were in 1996.  Miss C was 
working for a different  employer and said her sick pay wouldve  covered her for two months 
at full pay, with statutory  sick pay after that. TMPP wouldve covered them  for 24 months per 
successful claim, so for considerably longer  than their work benefits wouldve covered them 
for. So, for the reasons  given above in relation  to the 1996  policy,  I think the 2006  policy  was 
suitable for them. I cant see that being given more information about the main benefits and 
costs wouldve made them take a different decision and not take out the policy.  I cant see 
that Mr L and Miss C have lost out because of what Bank of Scotland may have done  wrong.
Ref: DRN71504723my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7150472