K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about issues theyve experienced with a car supplied with finance 
from Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).
background
In April 2017 Mr S was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF.
Mr S immediately oexperienced an issue with the engine management light illuminating. He 
obtained a diagnostic report which showed some  fault codes and suggested that the coil 
pack needed replacing. Mr S contacted the supplying dealer. It agreed to pay for the parts 
required to replace the coil pack. Because of the distance from Mr Ss home  to the supplying 
dealer, the supplying dealer agreed  that Mr S could arrange for the coil pack  to be fitted.
Replacement of the coil pack  didnt resolve the issue. Mr S contacted SMF  in May 2017. He 
reported the issues he was experiencing with the cars performance.  He also raised concerns 
that he hadnt been provided with a service history and that the V5 showed  two previous 
owners when the car had been  advertised as having  one previous  owner.
SMF said it would speak to the supplying dealer. It asked  Mr S to provide a diagnostic  
report.
In June 2017 Mr S took the car to a local garage. It identified a number of faults  and advised  
Mr S that he could continue to drive the car but that he should monitor  it.
In September  2017 the engine failed. Mr Ss local garage advised that the engine  required 
replacement and provided an estimate for repairs. Mr S asked SMF to reject  the car.
In June 2018 SMF arranged for an independent inspection  of the car. The report suggested 
that the fault would  not have been present at the point of supply.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that although a reasonable number of miles 
had accrued on the car since the point of supply, he didnt feel that the independent report  
was enough to support that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The 
investigator said that from a durability  perspective, he wouldnt expect an engine  to fail after 
64,000 miles. The investigator  recommended that SMF arrange for repairs  to be carried  out 
at a garage local to Mr S.
SMF didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that the fault which caused the engine to fail 
in September  2017 was present or developing at the point of supply. It relied on the 
independent report  which said that if the fault had been present at the point of supply the 
issue wouldve developed  within  1000-2000 miles. SMF also said that when Mr S first 
reported his concerns to the supplying  dealer  it invited him to return the car so it could  be 
inspected with a view to repairing  it. SMF said that Mr S declined this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73793852Because SMF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  term 
that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
die to an inherent defect rather than general wear and tear.
Mr S and SMF disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision,  I need to look at the available evidence and determine,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr S experienced issues with the engine management light and the car not performing as it 
should shortly after the point of supply. Mr S reported these issues  to the supplying dealer. 
The supplying dealer offered to inspect the car but wouldnt pay for the costs of 
transportation. Mr S didnt feel that he should  have to meet  the transportation costs. So the 
supplying dealer never inspected the car.
Mr S continued to experience issues with the car and continued to report these to the 
supplying dealer. He also reported  them to SMF. SMF asked Mr S to provide a diagnostic 
report.
Where a fault presents itself within 6 months  of the point of supply, its generally up to the 
business to put things  right. In this case,  I wouldve expected the supplying dealer to inspect  
the car. I appreciate that there was some  distance between the Mr Ss home and the 
supplying dealer but I think the supplying dealer should have arranged  for the car to be 
transported (or covered  the costs of doing  so). Alternatively the supplying dealer could have 
arranged for the car to be inspected by a garage of its choosing  closer to Mr Ss home. It did 
neither of these  things.
I dont think it was reasonable  of the supplying dealer  - and SMF - to place the onus of 
providing a diagnostic report on Mr S. The burden  of proof is on the business to show that 
the fault wasnt present or developing at the point  of supply. I dont think  Mr S was treated 
fairly when  he reported the issues. SMF should have arranged for the car to be inspected  
when he first reported the faults to them.
The engine failed  in September  2017. Based on the estimate provided by Mr Ss local 
garage, the cash  sales invoice from the BMW garage who inspected  the car in June 2017 
and Mr Ss testimony (which  has been  consistent throughout), Im satisfied that the issues 
which led to the engine failing were the same or related to the issues  which  Mr S had been 
experiencing since shortly  after the point of supply.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report dated June  2018.  This says that the fault 
was unlikely to have been present or developing at the point of supply because  of the 
mileage covered by the car. However, I dont think this of itself is sufficient for me to safely 
conclude that the car was of satisfactory  quality. The problem with the independent report is 
that the inspection was carried out after the engine  failed. The engineer  hasnt been able to 
say exactly what the fault was. The engineers comments that the car couldntve operated to 
any degree in its present  state are based  on an inspection of the car at the time when it had 
a failed engine.  Its important to remember that the car wasnt  always  in that state. Without a 
clear and concise  diagnosis of what the fault was (and there isnt such  a diagnosis in the 
independent report) Im not persuaded that the engineers comments are reliable. 
Ref: DRN73793853All of the available evidence as to the issues during the first 6 months points towards  the car 
not performing  as it should from the point of supply. The weight of evidence  suggests that 
there was a fault present  or developing with the car at the point of supply. I think  its more  
likely that the fault developed over the first 6 months  until the engine failed.
Ive also had regard  to the principle  of durability in the context of satisfactory quality. A 
reasonable person would expect a car to function without significant issues  for a reasonable 
period of time. In this case, the engine  failed within 6 months of the point of supply. I dont 
think 6 months is a reasonable period taking into account that this is such a significant 
component part of the car as the engine. Ive taken  into consideration the age and mileage 
of the car, and the price  paid. Even  though this is a second hand  car, Im of the view that 
total engine failure  at 64,000 miles on a car which is approximately 8 years  old isnt 
something that a reasonable  person would expect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think the car was durable or of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply  and I uphold the complaint.
I understand that Mr S has asked to reject the car and I appreciate why he wants to do this. 
However, I think SMF should  be allowed one opportunity to repair  the car.
Its clear that the relationship between Mr S and the supplying  dealer has broken down so I 
think the repairs should be carried out by a different garage. The costs of transporting  the 
car to and from the repairing  garage  must be met by SMF.
If the repairs are unsuccessful, or if the costs of repairing the car are uneconomic or 
disproportionate to the value of the car, Mr S should  be allowed to reject the car. 
Rejection would mean ending the agreement  with nothing further for Mr S to pay and 
arranging for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr S. Any deposit paid by Mr S should be 
refunded together with 8% interest  from the date of payment  to the date of settlement.
In either  case (repair or rejection), Mr S should be reimbursed for any payments he has 
made since October 2017, as hes been  without  the use of the car since  this time.
Any adverse  credit file information reported from October 2017 onwards should be removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7379385