K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that National Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out the PPI in 2004  at the same time as arranging  to re-mortgage their 
property to NatWest from a different lender.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they arranged the mortgage  during a meeting with NatWest. However 
NatWest has provided evidence showing that the mortgage and PPI was arranged over the 
phone with the forms being sent out to the couple  afterwards.
Mr and Mrs C say the PPI wasnt explained at all and believe that it was added  to the 
mortgage account without their knowledge  or consent.
Ive seen the paperwork from the sale. The mortgage application form has a Yes next to the 
statement: Do you want Mortgage Repayment  Protector? The mortgage  quotation  shows 
the cost of the PPI as: Mortgage Repayment  Protection Premium (Optional) £10.76.  
Mr and Mrs C had to sign and return the PPI direct  debit  mandate.  Overall Im satisfied that 
the paperwork represents what was discussed during the earlier phone call.
The sale happened a long time and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Cs recollection 
of events has faded. Ive thought carefully  about what they have said, but given the available 
evidence, I think it is more  likely than not that the policy was presented as optional.  It seems 
to me that Mr and Mrs C probably  decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even  if 
they no longer  remember doing so.
Mr and Mrs C and NatWest disagree  about whether or not the couple were advised to buy 
the policy. I dont  need to make a finding  on this point as it makes no difference to my 
decision. If NatWest did advise Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy, in recommending  it to 
them it needed to ensure  that it met the couples needs. And from what  I know of their 
circumstances at the time the policy was suitable.
Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover  Mr C. This seems  
reasonable as Mr C was the main wage-earner at the time. This also explains what Mrs C 
has said about trying to make a claim and being told that she didnt  have a policy.
Ref: DRN79473532Mr C would have received between three and six months sick pay from his job. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than he would have 
received full pay for. And the couple havent mentioned having any savings to fall back on. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that family would have helped, but presumably asking someone  
else to pay your mortgage would be a last resort. And other people cant always be relied 
upon as their circumstances can change.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr and Mrs C had an interest  in 
protecting their mortgage repayments.
Its possible that NatWest  didnt provide as much information as it should  have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mr C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think Mr and Mrs C had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I 
dont think that further  information would have caused them to change  their minds.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7947353