K820x#14Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his account. He says 
Barclays actions meant  he wasnt able to access any money which caused him trouble and 
upset. He wants Barclays to pay him compensation. 
Background
Mr M had an account with Barclays.
On 13 November 2018, Barclays reviewed Mr Ms account and blocked his access  to just 
over £6,500 which was in it. Barclays  removed the money and placed it into a sundry 
account. Whilst Barclays completed its review Mr M wasnt able to access  any of the money  
in his account. 
Barclays completed its review and returned Mr Ms funds  to his account  on 18 
December 2018.  Following its review, Barclays decided to close  Mr Ms and wrote to him in 
January 2019  to let him know he needed to make alternative banking arrangements within 
two months.
Mr M says the block to his funds  caused him a great deal of stress  and inconvenience. Hes 
explained that because he didnt have  access  to his money, he had to cancel flights which 
hes booked to visit his mother for her birthday.  Hes also said that he was made  homeless 
as a result  of his account being  frozen and his mental well-being suffered. He says he 
contacted Barclays  straight away when he realised  his account was frozen.  But the bank 
wouldnt give him any information. And says Barclays didnt tell him it was closing his 
account.
Mr M has told our investigator that Barclays  actions  ruined his chance of seeing  his mother  
on her birthday. He wants Barclays to compensate  him for the cost of his cancelled  trip and 
the impact of not being able to access his money  had on him. 
Mr M complained to the bank. Barclays said it hadnt  done  anything wrong. And it had 
blocked and then closed Mr Ms account  in line with the account terms and conditions. Mr M 
wasnt happy with this response. So, he brought his complaint to us.
An investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint. He said Barclays hadnt  done anything wrong 
when it blocked  and closed Mr Ms account.  Mr M disagreed. Hes still upset by what  
happened. He said Barclays didnt tell him it had blocked his account and didnt let him know 
how long it would take it to complete its review. So, he had no idea about when he would be 
able allowed accessed to his money.  
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
Ref: DRN79821942My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr M has told us and the bank  that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate hes upset that Barclays blocked his account. And that this has 
caused him inconvenience. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied  that the 
bank has done  something wrong.  And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing business  relationship. That sometimes means banks  need  to restrict customers  
accounts. Barclays has said that Mr Ms access to his account was blocked to meet these legal 
requirements.
The timing  of Barclays actions was unfortunate. Mr M had organised and paid to visit his 
mother for her birthday, which was very important to him. He wanted to be able to use the 
money in his account to fund his trip. And he needed  to be able to meet  the cost of his 
everyday living  expenses.  Mr M has also said that he was made homeless as a result  of 
Barclays freezing his account.  So,  I can understand  why he found this experience  with 
Barclays stressful and upsetting. And why he wants Barclays to pay him compensation.  
But as Ive already explained businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various  laws 
and regulations. Having looked  at whats happened in this case,  Im satisfied that the bank 
was complying with its legal and regulatory  obligations when it blocked  Mr Ms account. So, I 
cant say it has done anything wrong. The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms account  also 
permit Barclays to block an account.  Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Barclays  
acted in line with them. So, cant  say Barclays has treated Mr M unfairly  when it blocked  his 
account.
I know Mr M is frustrated  that he hasnt been given a proper explanation  why his account  
was blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions Barclays  doesnt  have to 
give a reason. So, I cant say Barclays has done  anything wrong by not giving Mr M this 
information as much hed like to know. 
Following its review Barclays  decided to close Mr Ms account.  Under  the terms and 
conditions Barclays could  close  Mr Ms accounts immediately under certain circumstances 
and by giving him 60 days  notice. Ive seen that Barclays wrote to Mr M on 18 January 2019 
and told him it was closing his account  in 62 days. So, Im satisfied Barclays were entitled to 
close Mr Ms account as it seems its already done.  I know Mr M has said he didnt receive  
any notice from Barclays, but I can see that the letter was correctly addressed. So, I think  it 
more likely than not that Mr M did receive  the notice.    
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr M feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. So, I realise  Mr M will be disappointed  by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays  have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr M unfairly  when it blocked  and closed his account.  So, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything.
Ref: DRN79821943My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7982194