K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
Mrs E bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage  in 2003. 
TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life 
cover and critical illness cover. Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
This policy was taken out in a meeting. I dont know exactly what  happened during 
the meeting and there isnt paperwork available from the time of sale. But based on 
what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  the optional 
nature wouldve been made clear. And I havent  seen anything  to persuade me that 
Halifax didnt follow their usual sales process  in this case. So I think its likely Halifax 
made it clear that Ms E didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs E so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Mrs E says she wouldve received some  sick pay when the policy was sold.  But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she wouldve received and for up to 
24 months if she was unable to work because of accident or sickness. It also 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if she lost her job. So I think she wouldve 
found the policy useful. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs E paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs E back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN79465082my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7946508