K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc wont refund a large number of transactions on
her Post Office account, which it provides and administers. She says the transactions  were
made by her partner  without her knowledge  or authority.
background
Ms H opened a Post Office savings account in May 2015. By November of that year the
balance on the account was around  £12,000.  She says that after that she tried to use the
account as little as possible. In December 2016, however, she found out that the balance
had been reduced to almost zero and contacted the Post Office  to try to find out what had
happened. She thought  it possible her partner had been using the account without her
knowledge.
Ms H was unable to say with any real certainty  which transactions  she thought  her partner
had made.  Initially, she thought it was around £6,000,  but later suggested  a figure  in the 
region of £18,000. Most withdrawals had been  made at cash machines, but some had been 
made over the counter.  She had, she said, used the account for smaller  transactions  but the 
bulk of the withdrawals had been  of £250  and she said she never  withdrew this much  
money. She did however later acknowledge that she was probably responsible for 
withdrawals and cash deposits made over the counter.  She said she thought it most likely 
that the disputed withdrawals  had started  in about February 2016, when larger  amounts 
started to be taken.
In some cases there were  deposits  that appeared broadly to match  withdrawals. Ms H says
they may have been cash her partner received from his business,  but its possible too that
he was withdrawing  money from the account, returning it and telling her it was from his
business.
Ms H reported her partner  to the police and they questioned him. The police concluded that
he had taken around £10,000  from the account,  but he hasnt  been  prosecuted.  He told 
them he knew Ms Hs PIN, although  his account of how he knew it has not been consistent.
Bank of Ireland considered the matter  but said it wasnt prepared to refund the money Ms H 
said shed lost. It made the following  points:
      All the withdrawals had been  made  using the genuine card and PIN. If they were made 
without authority, that was because Ms H hadnt  taken proper care of the card and PIN.
      Ms H hadnt  been  able to identify which transactions were in dispute, and shed been 
inconsistent about that.
      There were  some indications that Ms H knew about the withdrawals. For example, 
money was credited to the account and counter  withdrawals  were made.
      When counter withdrawals were made,  receipts were provided,  and these showed  the 
account balance.
      Ms H was sent statements.
      Ms H told the bank  that something  similar  had happened before, and so she ought to 
have taken better  care of her card and PIN.
Ref: DRN70554842Ms H referred her complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
broadly accepted what Ms H had said and agreed  that the bank should refund the 
disputed transactions,  with a deduction  for the sums that had been credited to the 
account. Since Ms H said she didnt  make any deposits, he calculated  the amount  she 
should get back to be just over £6,600.
Bank of Ireland  didnt agree with the investigators  findings and asked that an ombudsman 
consider the case. I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion 
from the investigator, issued a provisional  decision. 
I was satisfied that Ms Hs partner  had indeed made a large number of withdrawals from 
her account,  using her card and PIN, without her authority.  She hadnt, I found,  allowed 
him general  access to the account  and hadnt  authorised him to make specific 
transactions.  
Whilst it wasnt clear  how Ms Hs partner had got hold of the card and PIN (the 
explanations hed provided  to the police and to Ms H were  inconsistent), I didnt think that 
there was clear evidence  that Ms H had been  careless with either.    
I also noted, however,  that it didnt appear  that Ms Hs partner had sought to hide his 
actions. Ms H could have checked  the account  at any time, she used it occasionally  and 
some money was paid into it. 
I thought it was also significant that Ms H was given receipts when she used the account,  
and that those receipts included the account  balance. I thought it was more likely  than not 
that Ms H would have  noticed quite early on that the account balance was rather  less than 
she was expecting. I didnt think it would be fair to require the bank  to refund transactions  
in those circumstances.  
I expressed some concern in my provisional decision that Ms H hadnt been able to 
identify which transactions shed made and which she was disputing. Working  out what  
was in dispute by reference  to patterns of withdrawals wasnt, I thought,  very reliable.  I 
concluded, subject  to anything further the parties  might have to add, that it wouldnt be fair 
to make the bank refund  the disputed transactions. 
Ms H didnt accept my provisional  conclusions. She said, in summary:
She didnt think she could have taken  any better care of her card,  other than by hiding 
it. She kept the PIN protected  in her phone and didnt know her partner  had access to it. 
It wasnt realistic  to expect her to recall exactly which transactions  she knew  about and 
which she didnt.
She didnt check her receipts, as not all banks  include a balance  on them. Shed 
assumed that only she had access to her account  and so had no reason to check  the 
balance.
She didnt receive statements, but assumed that was normal,  as it was a new account,
Although there was a previous incident involving her partner, that related to credit  card 
fraud. 
Ms H also said that she could provide further evidence of her partners medical condition, if 
required. Hed never accompanied her to a cash machine, but she would have been careful 
if he had. She hadnt turned a blind  eye to the transactions; she didnt know  about them.  Her 
Ref: DRN70554843partner always dissuaded her from using the account, so she wouldnt know  about the 
activity on it. 
She explained too that she may have looked at setting up online access,  but didnt complete 
the procedure.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that I accept that Ms H has been the victim  of a fraud here  albeit on 
the balance of probabilities, rather than to the standard required in a criminal case. The 
extent of that fraud remains uncertain, however. 
I note also what Ms H says about  the measures she took to keep  her card and PIN secure. 
Of course,  she could have done more, but  as I said in my provisional decision  I dont 
think it would  be fair to say she was careless  with either. 
I accept as well what Ms H has said about her partners medical condition and the effect his 
medication had on his behaviour. Whilst I said in my provisional  decision that there was no 
direct evidence of that, I do accept  what the police have reported  on that issue.  
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought that Ms H must have known about the 
unauthorised activity on her account  no more than a few months after it started. Theres no 
general duty on a customer  to monitor their account, but there  is a general principle that 
customers should notify an account  provider  as soon as possible of any unauthorised activity 
on an account. 
Ms H says she didnt notice that the balance on her account was less than it should have 
been. I noted in my provisional decision that, by May 2016,  it was several thousand  pounds  
less than she was expecting. I thought she probably saw that when she made  counter 
transactions. She says she didnt, and had no reason to check.  However, she also says that 
she would  have been particularly careful to cover her PIN if her partner had accompanied 
her to a cash  machine.  
Ms H has explained  too that her partner would  dissuade her from using her account, and 
that this was another reason why she didnt know about the unauthorised activity  on it. In my 
view, that might of itself be a reason to check the account. In addition,  Ms H had been  the 
victim of a similar fraud before. She says that this was credit card fraud and therefore 
different in character;  her partner had since undergone treatment which  may have helped his 
condition. But Ms H also indicated that she wouldnt use a cash machine when her partner 
was nearby  suggesting she remained worried that he might do something similar again. 
Ms H says that she didnt  notice the account balance  when she withdrew money  herself. 
That was, she says,  because only she used the account. That is, of course, true of many 
accounts, but most holders even of sole accounts  would, I think, check  the balance  from 
time to time, especially  when making  significant  withdrawals.  Ms H had all the more reason  
to do so and didnt need to take any action herself   she had the balance printed on a 
receipt. 
Ref: DRN70554844I indicated in my provisional decision that I was concerned that Ms H hadnt been  able to 
identify exactly which transactions she was disputing. She says  understandably   that 
thats not realistic.  It does  however have  an impact upon the fairness of any decision I make. 
Ms H has my sympathy.  As Ive said, I accept  that money has been taken from her account 
without her authority.  But I must determine  her complaint on the basis of what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  And the concerns Ive expressed in this and 
my provisional decision  in particular about the extent  to which Ms H knew or should have 
known about the activity  on her account  and about  the precise extent of the fraud  lead me 
to conclude that it wouldnt be fair to require the bank to make  any refunds here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to take any further  steps to 
resolve Ms Hs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required 
to ask Ms H to accept  or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7055484