K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  Advantage Insurance Company Limited. They  arent 
happy about the way it settled a claim under their motor  insurance policy.
background
Mrs F was involved in a minor  incident in a car park. She brushed another car while trying to 
park and she accepts this was her fault.  But she didnt feel that any damage was caused to 
the other car. Mr F went onto report the incident to Advantage for information  purposes but 
only after the other driver had produced two quotes for damage sustained  (£400 and £500).
As Mr and Mrs F didnt hear anymore about it they thought that was the end of the matter. 
So they were  surprised to be told by Advantage  that it had settled a claim against the policy 
without telling them. They  felt that the claim,  which was more than double the two quotes 
they were aware  of, was inflated so they complained to Advantage and then this service.
Advantage felt that the damage was consistent  with the description of the accident provided  
by Mr and Mrs F. But Advantage did say that it shouldve updated Mr and Mrs F. So it 
offered £30 compensation in acknowledgement of this.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr and Mrs F. But thought Advantage had acted  
reasonably. While the complaint was with this service it offered a further £100 compensation 
as it felt that it hadnt kept Mr and Mrs F up to date - even when they called to ask about the 
incident and whether it had any affect  on them. But our adjudicator felt that Advantage had 
dealt with the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions so didnt feel it should change 
how the claim was settled.
As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that Advantage 
shouldve communicated  with Mr and Mrs F better  but I cant say that it has acted 
unreasonably in settling the claim.  Ill explain why.
In looking to decide what is fair and reasonable in this complaint, Ive considered  everything  
that Mr and Mrs F and Advantage have provided.  The policy terms make it clear that 
Advantage has the right to take over settlement of the claim. And this type of clause is 
common in car insurance policies. 
This, in effect, allows Advantage to decide  whether to take the other driver to court  or to 
settle a claim. Legal proceedings are time-consuming, expensive  and the outcome can be 
uncertain. So it has to make sensible commercial decisions whether it makes sense to take 
legal action against the other driver.
But this service looks to ensure  that insurers make these decisions fairly and reasonably.  
We expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment; based on a clear understanding  of 
the evidence and the circumstances  of the accident. 
Ref: DRN77612242With this in mind Ive carefully considered  how Advantage  has handled Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim. And I agree that its communication has been poor and it shouldve  kept them  up to 
speed about what was happening  in relation to the claim.  But Im satisfied that it carried out 
a reasonable investigation  into the claim, and took into consideration all of the available  
evidence. 
As Mrs F admitted that the coming together of the two cars was her fault the only issue to 
consider is whether the other driver  inflated the claim. I can understand Mr and Mrs Fs 
frustration here as they were at the scene of the incident. But the other  side has been  
consistent that there was damage  and got two quotes a short  while after the incident  and 
acknowledged when  they advanced  the claim that the impact was light. 
While I can see that the claim is more than the initial estimates the other  driver provided  
costs can differ significantly between repairing garages.  And estimates can go up during 
repair and the repairing  engineers evidence  is pretty clear about the damage caused.  
So although  I agree  that it would have been good  to have some photographic evidence  
supporting the third party claim. There clearly was an incident and it is likely, on balance, 
that some  damage was caused. So I cant say that Advantage has acted  unreasonably  in 
settling the claim. It would be very difficult for Advantage to defend Mrs F at court  as she 
admitted being  at fault and there would be some costs attributed  to this incident.  
So I think Advantage acted reasonably in settling the third partys claim, and I do not require 
it to take any further action.
Finally, I note that Advantage increased its offer of compensation to £130  to account for the 
way it dealt with the claim. I judge this to be a fair and reasonable amount,  and dont think it 
should increase  its offer.  I simply leave  it to Mr and Mrs F to decide  whether, upon reflection, 
they wish to accept  the offer.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that Im not asking Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7761224