K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Erudio Student Loans Limited didnt  act on his requests to update his 
address and defer his student  loan repayments.  Hes unhappy  it closed his account, wont let 
him defer his repayments and asked him to repay his loan in full.
background
In 1999 Mr D took out a student  loan with a company Ill refer to as the original lender. The 
loan terms and conditions  said:
Mr D was required to make  monthly  repayments.
The lender  could ask Mr D to repay the loan in full if he didnt make  the repayments  
due.
Mr D could apply to defer his monthly  repayments, as long as his income was below a 
certain level and the lender hadnt already  asked  him to repay  the loan in full. This 
meant that if the lender  accepted  his deferment  application, Mr D wouldnt need to 
make any loan repayments for a twelve month  period. 
Mr Ds student loan transferred from the original lender to Erudio in March  2014. About a 
month later Mr D sent Erudio a deferment application, which  Erudio accepted. This 
deferment was due to end in May 2015  and Erudio says that a few weeks  before this, it sent 
Mr D a further deferment application form to the address it held for him at the time. 
Erudio says Mr D didnt  return  this application  and so his monthly repayments became 
payable again  in May 2015. But Mr D didnt make any payments, and so the account  went 
into arrears. Erudio wrote to Mr D about  this at the address it held for him, but in June 2015 
a third party contacted Erudio  to say Mr D no longer lived at that address. So Erudio 
suspended his account.
 
For his part, Mr D says he sent letters to Erudio in February 2015 and again in April 2016 to 
say hed changed address and to request a deferment. He says he wrote  to Erudio again in 
August 2016 to say hed changed  address  and to ask about  the status of his account, as 
hed heard nothing back. Mr D says Erudio should  have deferred his account when he asked 
it to, but he didnt receive an acknowledgment from Erudio.
After reviewing his account, Erudio sent Mr D a Notice of Default in October  2016,  which  
said that by 8 November 2016 hed need  to either  pay the arrears or request a deferment. 
The arrears  were not paid and a deferment  wasnt requested,  so on 9 November 2016 
Erudio wrote to Mr D to say hed need to fully repay his loan within  seven days or his 
account would be closed. Mr D didnt repay,  and so Erudio closed his account. 
Mr D says he called Erudio on 11 November  2016  to check  the status of his account and ask 
why Erudio hadnt acted on his previous correspondence. Mr D says that in this call Erudio 
said it hadnt processed his address changes or deferment requests, and that his account  
would be non-compliant in ten days time.  Mr D says that later the same day he sent Erudio 
a letter  by special  delivery to confirm  his address and income, enclosing copies of the 
previous correspondence he says he sent.  Mr D says Erudio  later told him it had received 
this letter.  
Erudio says it received  a call from Mr D in March  2018  to ask about the status of his 
account. In that call, Mr D told Erudio he lost his paperwork when he moved house and that 
Ref: DRN77310862he wasnt aware it had taken over his student  loan  he said hed just found out after calling  
the original lender. And he said that in previous years hed written to the original lender to tell 
it hed changed  address  and to ask for his loan to be deferred, but that the original lender 
told him it hadnt received these letters. 
Later in the call Erudio  told Mr D his account  had been closed in November 2016. Mr D 
asked if his account could be reinstated but Erudio said it couldnt. Erudio agreed to send 
Mr D a breakdown of his account, and offered to put debt recovery  action on hold for 
30 days to give him breathing space. Mr D accepted  this offer and asked for Erudios postal  
address.
A few months later Mr D wrote to Erudio to say he was unhappy it hadnt logged  his letters 
and calls, and that it now wouldnt let him defer and was asking him to repay his loan in full. 
Mr D and Erudio corresponded  back and forth before Erudio  issued its final response letter 
in November 2018. In summary, that final response  said:
Erudio had no record of receiving the letters or calls in question.
Eight weeks before Mr Ds last deferment  ended in May 2015, Erudio sent a deferment 
application form to the address it held for Mr D, which fulfilled its obligations to him.
Mr D didnt apply for a deferment and Erudio didnt grant one, so Mr D should  have 
been making monthly repayments.
Erudio apologised  for, and clarified,  some minor inaccuracies in its previous complaint 
correspondence with Mr D. 
Erudio had no record of the call Mr D says he made to Erudio on 11 November  2016,  
or the letter he says he sent later that same day. It said his account had already been 
closed by then and so deferment  wasnt an option for Mr D by that stage. And it 
couldnt offer deferment now.
Erudio had listened to Mr Ds call on 20 March 2018, in which Mr D says hes never 
been in contact with Erudio before, had only just found out it had taken over his 
student loan, and had been writing to the original lender.
The balance of Mr Ds account was still due in full, but it was happy  to discuss  a 
repayment arrangement due to his financial circumstances. To help with this, it asked 
Mr D to complete and return an income  and expenditure  form.
The date of the post office receipt  Mr D provided  to support his complaint didnt 
correspond with the letters in question.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with this response so he brought his complaint to our service.  After 
looking into things, our investigator thought Erudio had administered  Mr Ds account  
correctly, was entitled to ask Mr D to repay  his loan in full and had acted fairly in offering to 
reach a reasonable repayment  plan.  And our investigator thought Mr D had a responsibility 
to manage his loan account.
Mr D disagreed. He said hed tried to manage his account by contacting Erudio.  But that 
Erudio had failed  to log his deferment and change of address requests, which meant  he 
didnt have a chance to respond and correct Erudios error. He said Erudio had unfairly taken 
his right of deferment  away.
Mr Ds complaint was passed  to me to make  a decision. Before making my decision, I 
wanted to know  whether  Mr D and Erudio had any further comments to make about the call 
between Mr D and Erudio  on 20 March  2018,  in which  Mr D told Erudio  he didnt know  it had 
taken over his student loan and that in previous  years hed written to the original lender to 
say hed changed address and would like a deferment. 
Ref: DRN77310863Erudio said it couldnt agree Mr D wasnt aware  Erudio  had taken over his loan, because it 
wrote to inform him of this in March  2014. And also because  Mr D had sent Erudio a 
deferment application in April 2014, and the Insolvency Service had written to Erudio on 
Mr Ds behalf in March  2018.
Mr D said he hadnt made the call to Erudio on 20 March 2018. He said the caller was 
someone impersonating him with the aim of causing trouble. Mr D explained this had 
happened to him on other occasions  and hed reported it to the police.
I asked Mr D for more information  about  his involvement with the Insolvency  Service. Mr D 
confirmed a bankruptcy order was made  against  him in March  2018 and that it was 
discharged, or ended, in March 2019.  And Erudio confirmed it was still asking Mr D to repay 
his student loan debt because student loans are not included in bankruptcy orders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
But first, Id like to make it clear that although  Ive considered  everything  both parties have 
said as well as all the evidence theyve provided, my decision wont  address every  point both 
parties have made. Instead, it will only address what I see to be the key points to the overall 
complaint.
letters and call not logged  or acted upon 
Mr D says he wrote to Erudio in 2015  and 2016, and called it in 2016. Mr D is unhappy 
Erudio didnt log these  contacts or act on them, and hes provided copies of the letters he 
says he sent. Mr D has also provided  a post office  receipt dated 5 July 2018, however Ive 
seen it doesnt  correspond to any of the letters in question.
I know Mr D places great weight on the letters and call, but Ive seen nothing in Erudios 
records to suggest  it received  them.  So it wouldnt be reasonable of me to say Erudio had 
done something wrong by not acting  on them.  And I could only reasonably expect Erudio to 
contact Mr D using the address  details it held for him - its records  show thats what  it did.
I note Mr D disputes making the call on 20 March 2018, and I acknowledge the difficulties  
hes told us about.  But regardless of whether that call was made or not, I dont  think  it made 
any difference to Mr Ds situation, as Erudio had already  closed his account about 
16 months previously.  So whether or not it was Mr D who made that call, things had already 
moved on regardless.
Erudio has acted unfairly
Mr Ds last deferment period ended in May 2015.  For a new deferment  to start, Mr D would 
have needed to complete a new deferment  application and Erudio would have needed  to 
accept that application. 
Erudios records show that in March 2015  Erudio sent a new deferment application to the 
address it last held for Mr D, but didnt receive  the application back. Because  there was no 
further deferment, the terms  and conditions of the loan said Mr D should have started 
Ref: DRN77310864making monthly loan repayments. But Erudios records  show Mr D didnt make any 
repayments, and so his account went into arrears. Erudios records  show it wrote  to Mr D 
about that at the address  it held for him.
I know Mr D says he wrote to Erudio on several occasions to update his address  and 
request a deferment. But as Ive said, I dont think Erudio received these letters,  and I could 
only reasonably  expect Erudio to contact  Mr D using  the address details it held for him, 
which it did. And since Erudio didnt receive Mr Ds request  to make a deferment application, 
I cant say it acted unfairly by not deferring his loan in 2015  and 2016. 
Because Mr Ds account had gone  into arrears, the terms and conditions entitled  Erudio to 
ask Mr D to repay his loan in full and to no longer offer him the option  of deferring. Mr Ds 
account was in arrears  for over 16 months before Erudio started recovery action. And in 
October 2016 Erudio  wrote to Mr D to say he had a month to either  pay the arrears or 
request a deferment, or hed need to repay his loan in full. As neither happened, Erudio told 
Mr D he would need to fully repay  the loan within seven days. No repayments were  made  
and so Erudio  closed Mr Ds account a month later.
Whilst a bankruptcy  order was made  against  Mr D in 2018, I note current legislation  doesnt 
include student loans  in bankruptcy orders.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Erudio acted unfairly or outside the terms and 
conditions of the loan. And based  on Erudios records,  I think it made  reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr D about his account, and gave  him time to bring his account back  into line. 
Erudio has offered to work with Mr D to reach a reasonable repayment  arrangement, and it 
has asked Mr D to provide his income  and expenditure details to that end. I think thats fair 
and I would urge Mr D to get in touch with Erudio  to discuss this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7731086