K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about problems when they repaid their secured loan, which was 
administered by Acenden Limited. They ask that Acenden refunds interest applied  after the 
loan should have been repaid and pays compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs F had a loan secured by a second charge on their house. They wanted to 
refinance the loan.  They  took out a loan with a different provider in May 2018  and their new 
lender sent the proceeds to Acenden to redeem their loan. Mrs F says Acenden applied 
interest and took two payments after this. This left them short  of money  for living  expenses. 
Acenden says it returned the money  from the new lender as it was unable to contact  
Mr and Mrs F to check theyd authorised  repayment  of the loan. Mrs F says this explanation 
isnt good enough. She says shed spoken  to Acenden the week before about settling the 
account. She says its unfair that Acenden  refused to refund the interest  applied  after the 
loan should have been repaid. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mrs F had called Acenden about repaying  the secured loan. She asked it for a 
redemption statement and gave it contact details for her solicitor. If Mrs F needed to 
provide more information Acenden should  have told her this when she called.
Acenden held the money for about  20 days.  It could have written  to Mr and Mrs F during 
this time if it couldnt contact them by phone.
Acenden should put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would have  been  in if the loan had 
been repaid on 2 May 2018,  when it received the funds from the new lender. 
Acenden didnt respond to the adjudicators recommendation.  
While I agreed  with the adjudicators recommendation, I wanted to set out in more  detail  
what Acenden should  do to put matters right. So I sent a provisional decision to the parties. 
Mr and Mrs F agreed with the resolution  suggested  in my provisional  decision. Acenden 
confirmed it received my provisional decision but didnt make any comments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN74863782what happened?
Mrs F called Acenden on 16, 17 and 18 April 2018.  Acenden hasnt provided call recordings.  
But its notes say Mrs F asked for a redemption statement and account statements for the 
previous 12 months.  She asked for the redemption  statement and account statements to be 
faxed to her solicitor. She told Acenden she was re-mortgaging.
Acenden received funds from the new lender on 2 May 2018. It says it tried to call 
Mr and Mrs F on several occasions. Its notes support  this, although Mr and Mrs F say they 
dont have any record of it trying to contact  them.  Acenden says it needed to check  where 
the funds came from and that the sender was authorised to redeem the loan.
Acenden returned  the funds to the new lender on 22 May 2018.  
On 20 June 2018 Mrs F called Acenden to ask why it had taken direct debit payments in 
May and June 2018 after the loan had been  repaid. 
A further  redemption statement was issued,  the new lender re-sent  the funds and the loan 
was repaid on 26 June 2018.
did Acenden make  an error?
Acenden says Mrs F didnt tell it the name of the person or the organisation that would be 
redeeming the loan account.  But it hasnt  provided evidence that it told Mrs F it needed this 
information. Mrs F called  several  times between 16 and 18 April 2018. So Acenden  had 
several opportunities to tell her what information  it needed. 
The redemption statement provides information  about how the redemption monies should be 
paid. But it doesnt  say the borrower  has to contact Acenden to confirm  who would send the 
money and that they have authorised the redemption.
When Mrs F called about re-mortgaging and asked for a redemption statement to be sent to 
her and her solicitor, I think  Acenden should have told her shed need to contact it again  to 
provide further  information. It hasnt provided evidence  that it did this. 
Acenden says when  it received the money  from the new lender it tried to contact 
Mr and Mrs F by phone. Mrs F says theres  no record  of it trying to get in contact,  although 
its possible it tried to call Mr F while he was working  away  from home. 
Acenden says its policy is not to write  to customers in these circumstances due to time 
constraints which  we have to comply with before the funds are returned to the remitter . 
Acenden says it followed its policy correctly in trying  to allocate funds from an unknown 
source. But its notes say it usually returns funds after 10 days. Here, it returned the funds 
after 20 days. This was enough time to write  to Mr and Mrs F and ask them to contact it.
Mrs F says she asked  Acenden to fax a copy of the redemption statement to her new lender. 
Acenden says she asked  it to send the statement to her solicitor and this is supported  by its 
notes. Nonetheless,  Acenden could have considered contacting  Mr and Mrs F through their 
solicitor.
Ref: DRN74863783what should happen now?
I think if Acenden had given Mr and Mrs F better information their loan would have been 
repaid on 2 May 2018, when their new lender sent the redemption monies to Acenden. Our 
adjudicator said Acenden  should put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would have been in if 
the loan had been repaid on 2 May 2018. I agree  and have set out below what I think this 
means.
Acenden says Mr and Mrs F arent out of pocket as the two payments after 2 May 2018 were  
applied to their loan account.  I dont agree. I think they suffered  a financial loss as interest  
was applied to the loan balance between 2 May 2018 and 26 June 2018. This was in 
addition to the interest they paid on their new loan.
I think Acenden should refund interest and any charges applied to Mr and Mrs Fs account  
after 2 May 2018,  with interest of 8% simple.
I also think this matter  has caused  Mr and Mrs F worry  and inconvenience.  Acenden  should  
pay compensation for that. I think, in the circumstances, compensation of £200  is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Acenden  Limited to:
refund  interest  and charges  applied to Mr and Mrs Fs account  after 2 May 2018;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on the refund  from 26 June 2018 to the date of 
settlement;* and
pay £200 to Mr and Mrs F.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Acenden Limited to take off tax from this interest, it 
must give Mr and Mrs F a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7486378