K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is, in the main,  about  redress for a trust fund management  matter  he says 
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) mishandled.
background
The trust fund management  arrangement began around 2015 and the problems  that feature 
in Mr Gs complaint arose around 2016.  In summary, the problems  relate to the 
management, by SJP, of withdrawal(s)s from the trust fund (and, it appears,  an international 
investment bond) for a precise and important  purpose(s) specified  by Mr G and known to 
SJP at the time. 
In the main,  Mr G says that SJP was grossly  negligent in mismanaging the withdrawal  
task(s), that the specified purpose(s) for the withdrawal(s) was not met as and when it 
should have been met, that multiple and serious  consequences (financial and non-financial) 
resulted from that and that SJP compounded its failures in the matter by mishandling its 
customer service  to him and to his complaints thereafter (over  the course of around four 
years).
SJPs position  on the complaint is that it has offered  Mr G an ex gratia  settlement  payment of 
£15,000 for the trouble,  upset and inconvenience the matter has caused  him. It says this 
offer is significantly higher  than its initial offer, that it has been increasing its offer in the 
course of negotiations with Mr G and that it does  not consider  it fair to offer any more  than 
£15,000. It also says the offer remains available to Mr G.
Mr G acknowledges and accepts the £15,000 settlement proposal but he has stressed the 
following key points  to this service:
His agreement with SJP for payment  to him  of the £15,000 settlement should not 
and cannot be interfered with by this service. Nothing in his complaint invites us to do 
this and he considers  this settlement  to have been concluded with SJP and that the 
same applies  to his entitlement to the £15,000  payment.
His position is explicitly based on the premise that the settlement caters only for 
distress and inconvenience caused to him by SJP. The settlement does not cater for 
the outstanding matter  of the financial losses he incurred as a result of SJPs 
wrongdoings. These financial  losses  come under two main headings. 
Under the first heading, he seeks recovery of £12,000 (in total)  related  to specific  
travel costs  which were incurred due to being unable to undertake  a domestic  trip (as 
part of an international trip) as a result of the withdrawal problems caused  by SJP. 
He says 10 days in the trip were wasted in this respect, compensation for which  
forms part of the total amount he seeks.  The other part of that amount relates  to the 
financial costs he says he would  incur to reschedule the trip at present. 
Under the second heading, he seeks a total of £20,000 for the time and effort  (and 
the products of that time and effort) he invested in pursuing his complaint.
There has been extensive cross correspondence between Mr G and this service,  with 
regards to his complaint  and with regards to the issues to be addressed within his complaint. 
One of our investigators  concluded that SJPs settlement proposal is more than adequate, 
that it is more than this service would propose or order in the circumstances of his case and 
that she would not be asking SJP to pay any more. A senior  investigator  had cause to 
contribute to our treatment of the complaint and echoed the same  views, with additional 
Ref: DRN79766552explanations as to why the settlement is more than adequate  in the circumstances  of Mr Gs 
case and in the context of our approach towards  awards in such circumstances and in 
general.
The complaint was referred  to an ombudsman.
Mr G vehemently  disagrees with the approach  taken  by (and shared between) both 
investigators. He stressed the need  to review  and, it appears, make findings on the details of 
the complaint  despite the settlement basis. In response to the investigators requests he 
quantified his claims for financial  loss, as summarised above. He also highlighted concerns 
about SJPs management of information that had been shared with this service. All of these 
elements culminated  recently in a very detailed document of submissions from Mr G, for the 
attention of an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the successive sets of detailed  submissions  made  by Mr G to this service 
over the course  of our treatment of his complaint. This includes the most recent document  of 
submissions he sent for the attention of an ombudsman. I have read his submissions and I 
commend the way he has consistently  set out his thoughts  and positions  on all of the 
matters summarised in the background section above. 
Having said the above, I consider that the investigators have, correctly, maintained focus on 
what needs to be addressed by this service in order to conclude Mr Gs complaint. This was 
a reasonable approach to undertake, especially for a case in which one party  (SJP) says a 
settlement for the entire complaint is already available  and the other party  (Mr G) says that 
settlement is agreed and concluded, but there  is an outstanding matter(s) to address. This 
creates less of a need to dwell on the historical details of the complaint and more of a need 
to identify the outstanding  matter(s), and to address it.
Mr Gs complaint is not about  its merits or about determination of the historical details. It is 
about his assertion that the £15,000 settlement he has agreed with SJP caters only for 
around one third of his heads of compensation and that the remainder two thirds  (that is, 
compensation for travel costs and compensation for the costs of the pursuit of his complaint)  
remain outstanding  to date and remain SJPs  responsibility. I accept that parts  of the 
historical details which  are relevant to this assertion will of course  be important, but the point 
remains that Mr Gs complaint is mainly about  redress not merits.
Within his submissions to this service,  Mr G has repeated  requests and then demands that 
we do not tamper  with the £15,000 settlement basis, and he has repeated  the assertion that 
it is beyond our remit to do so because the settlement has already been agreed. Based  on 
Mr Gs explicit  statements, the settlement is not an issue  to be determined within his 
complaint.
However, redress for Mr G is an issue to be determined in his complaint. Inevitably, this 
creates a basis upon which I should  consider what SJP refers to as its complete redress 
settlement proposal   which  happens to be the same £15,000 that Mr G considers to be only 
a partial redress settlement. I highlight this to clarify that whilst I do not address the 
settlement agreement that Mr G says he has with SJP, and says is beyond  our remit, I do 
Ref: DRN79766553have to address  whether it caters for redress completely as SJP says or if, as Mr G says, it 
does not and if it falls short of catering for the two heads of compensation he has presented.  
This appears  to be the key dispute  between the parties and it should  be determined.
The claim for travel costs
Without portraying the details of this claim and in order to avoid the risk of a breach of 
confidentiality owed  to Mr G in the course  of doing so, a summary of its basis is as follows:
The trust fund withdrawal issue was coupled with related international travelling by 
Mr G.
The international trip stands, arguably, in isolation. It was based on circumstances  
personal to Mr G and his family, even though SJPs management  of the trust fund 
withdrawal was integral  to those circumstances. The point to be observed in this 
respect is that the personal circumstances initiated the trust fund withdrawal issue  
not the other  way around.
The costs relate  directly to a domestic  trip Mr G planned within the international trip, 
which was not directly related to the purpose  for the international trip, which he says 
he had to abandon after the problems which arose  from the trust fund withdrawal 
issue and for which he did not incur  a direct financial loss (in the sense that he had 
not pre-paid for the domestic trip).
Mr G explains  that the basis for his claim is twofold; first, the costs he incurred for the 
international trip incorporated an extra 10 days which he did not require for the 
purpose of the international  trip, but which  was planned for the domestic trip; his 
inability to undertake  the domestic  trip meant the international trip lasted 10 days  
longer than it needed to  hence  his claim for £5,000 (at the rate of £500 per day) in 
this respect; the remainder of £7,000 (in the total claim  of £12,000)  relates to the 
costs he would now incur  in order to undertake the international trip afresh in order to 
make the domestic trip he missed out on (because  of SJPs wrongdoings).
I am not persuaded that this is a loss (or alleged loss) that SJP should  be responsible for  
or separately  responsible for. 
The additional 10 days  that Mr G has referred to were remote to the trust fund withdrawal 
management issue for which SJP was responsible.  It appears  that the decision to add those 
10 days to the international trip  in order to undertake the domestic trip  was Mr Gs and 
was also remote to anything done  by SJP.  Mr Gs evidence suggests that the problems 
which arose from the trust fund withdrawal issue were concluded in time for the domestic trip 
to be undertaken.  However, he says those problems  had taken so much  out of him that he 
thereafter lacked  the capacity to proceed  with the domestic trip. 
It appears that, in addition  to the 10 days being unrelated to SJPs trust fund withdrawal 
management responsibilities at the time and mindful  that the addition of those  10 days was 
not necessary  for the international  trip, the problems which  arose from the trust fund 
withdrawal matter did not extend to or consume any part of the 10 days. They  remained 
available for the domestic trip Mr G had planned.  Understandably and in the circumstances 
he has described, he did not consider that he had sufficient capacity to undertake the trip. 
Three conclusions can fairly be drawn from this:
It is correct,  based on Mr Gs evidence, to say that the relevant problems did not 
affect the availability of the 10 additional days he had set aside for the domestic trip. 
Ref: DRN79766554Those 10 days remained available despite  the problems and he could  have 
undertaken the domestic trip as he had planned to do.
His decision not to undertake the domestic trip  which I do not question   resulted 
from the distress caused by the problems. As he affirms, his case for distress and 
inconvenience  related to the same  problems  has already been settled within the 
£15,000 settlement  agreement  which  he does  not want us to treat.
The same  applies to his claim for compensation in order  to undertake, afresh,  the 
domestic trip he missed out on. The distress  caused  by missing out on that trip has 
already been settled  and I have not seen a basis on which SJP can reasonably be 
held responsible to pay, separately, for a fresh trip  especially given the points about  
remoteness made above.
The claim for the costs  of pursuing the complaint
In straightforward terms:
This service does not normally  give costs awards in relation to complaints referred to 
us. I have not seen  anything  in Mr Gs case that justifies a departure  from this 
approach. In contrast to many of the investment management related cases  we 
address, the issues in his case are not particularly complex.  I acknowledge the 
significant effort he has invested in presenting and maintaining the complaint, before 
and after its referral  to this service, but such effort  (by complainants)  is not 
uncommon in the complaints we address. In addition, I note that the investigators 
sought, with mixed results, to help Mr G focus his efforts  on the limited  complaint 
issue(s) in dispute.
In addition, or in the alternative, I accept SJPs suggestion  that the £15,000 
settlement basis caters for the complaint enough to include  compensation for the 
trouble, upset and inconvenience caused  to Mr G in having to pursue the complaint. I 
consider this includes the effort  he invested  into presenting and maintaining  the 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do no uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 9 February 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7976655