K820x#14complaint
Mrs D, Mr D and Ms D complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
declined their claim under their commercial buildings insurance policy.
Mrs D has been the lead complainant representing  the parties in this case.  So Ill refer 
mainly to her throughout this decision.  
background
Mrs D, Mr D and Ms D own a property  which is let to tenants. In October  2018,  the tenants  
notified them  that water  marks and damp had appeared in the TV/kitchen room  of the 
property and sent photos of this.
Mrs D says it was difficult  to ascertain  where the water was coming from, so they appointed 
contractors to advise  on the damage  and quote for repair  works.  Mrs D says this took time to 
source and so the damage got worse. When a quote was obtained in November 2018, 
Mrs D says she contacted  her broker to register the claim with RSA. And while waiting  for a 
claim decision, she went ahead with repair works.
Mrs D says the contractors concluded  the damage  was caused by wind and storm, which  
had allowed water to enter the property. So a claim was logged  for external repairs to fix the 
roof, and internal repairs to rectify the damp and mould damage inside the property. 
On receipt of the details and photo evidence, RSA declined the claim for storm damage. It 
said that according to weather report platforms  storm  conditions  werent  present  on, or 
around either the date the tenants  reported the damage to Mrs D, or the date Mrs D raised 
the claim with her broker. It further  noted the internal damage looked to have  happened  
gradually over time, and that gradual  damage is excluded under the policy.  
In January 2019, RSA communicated its decision to Mrs Ds broker  for it to pass on to her, 
however this wasnt done. Meanwhile,  Mrs D had the repair  works carried  out to the 
property, and the contractor discovered  a pipe in the wall. And he told Mrs D that the pipe 
may have  been  providing an entry point for the water from the damaged roof. So Mrs D 
passed this information along to her broker for RSA to consider, as she thought it was still 
looking into her claim.
RSA considered this new information under the escape of water part of the policy. But after 
speaking with the contractor who discovered the pipe, it was confirmed that the pipe itself 
wasnt leaking, and that the water was coming  from the roof  the same issue  that had 
already been declined.  
So RSA maintained its position on the claim. But Mrs D disagreed and complained to RSA. 
She didnt  dispute  that the damage  happened gradually, and that there  wasnt a leaking 
pipe. But she says there had been lightning strikes  just before summer that year. And she 
thinks this was the likely cause of the damage  to the roof, with the pipe providing a further  
entry point for the water.  
Ref: DRN79067942But as the following months were  very dry, Mrs D says the damage didnt become apparent 
to anyone until further rainfall later in the year, which  is when the tenants first noticed it and 
the damage was reported. So Mrs D says she took action as soon as she was reasonably  
aware. She also complained that RSA had given her a poor service throughout and failed to 
cancel the policy and refund the premiums  in the timescales promised.
RSA agreed its service standards had fallen  short in relation to the cancellation of 
Mrs Ds policy and the refund of premiums. And it paid her £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused. But it maintained its position  on her claim. So Mrs D brought  a complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think RSA had acted unfairly and 
so didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs D disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
and Ill explain why.
When we look at storm damage cases,  we ask three main  questions:
Has it been  proven,  on balance, there  were  storm  conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If Im unable to answer yes to all the above questions, then its unlikely the claim will 
succeed.
Its not in dispute  that Mrs Ds damaged  roof tiles have allowed an entry  point for water  to 
ingress, causing internal damp  and mould  damage. And she says the contractors found it to 
have happened  as the result of high winds and storm. So I have to consider, based on the 
available evidence, whether there was a storm on or around the date the damage to the tiles 
occurred. But Mrs D hasnt been able to confirm an exact date for this.
Mrs D has pointed to a storm  that occurred in May 2018 which  was followed by a long period 
of dry weather.  She thinks this was the likely incident date, and that the dry weather 
prevented it from being discovered until further  rainfall in October 2018 caused  internal 
damage to appear. So in the absence of an exact  date,  Ive checked the weather reports 
relevant to the insured  property area,  for storm conditions from the months of May  October  
2018.
Having done so, Ive seen  there were wet storms, or at least  heavy rainfall, occurring on a 
day in both May and October of that year. But having looked carefully at the reports, it 
seems these rain storms didnt have high winds   which I will discuss  below. I think its 
reasonable to say that the damage  to Mrs Ds roof is consistent with the type of damage  a 
storm can cause. But Ive gone on to consider whether the conditions  of these storms were 
the main cause of the damage, and on balance, I dont think  they were.
I say this because,  Mrs D received quotes  to repair the damage from two contractors.  One 
said it was his opinion  the roof was damaged because of storm conditions and the other  
agreed, adding  that the slates had blown out in recent  high winds.
Ref: DRN79067943  
From the reports Ive seen, the wet storms that occurred in May and October brought about 
heavy rainfall, but they didnt feature storm force winds. So Im not persuaded they wouldve 
caused the damage that Mrs Ds contactor has described in this case. It follows Ive been 
unable to answer yes to the three main questions listed above. And based on everything Ive 
seen, I wont be directing RSA to pay Mrs Ds claim for storm damage.
RSA has also said that the damage  being claimed  for with regards to the internal damp and 
mould, isnt covered under  the policy, as it looks to have  happened gradually over time.  Ive 
looked at Mrs Ds policy and it does exclude damage of this nature. Mrs D doesnt  dispute 
the damage happened gradually, but she argues  it didnt become apparent  until the tenants 
first reported  it in October 2018,  so she thinks it should be covered.
But photos that I understand were taken  around the time the incident was reported, show  
extensive water damage which doesnt  seem consistent with damage that wouldve 
appeared suddenly. So, on balance, Im persuaded that its more  likely than not, the damage 
the roof was causing internally, had also been  going on for some time  before it was first 
reported, or a claim was made. 
Gradual damage  isnt covered under the policy, so I think RSA has fairly declined this part of 
the claim.  And it follows  that even if I was satisfied that the damage  to Mrs Ds property was 
caused by a storm, and that it was an insured peril  which Im not  the claim still wouldnt 
have been covered because of the gradually occurring cause. 
Mrs D says that RSA has poorly  handled her claim. She says it took too long to reply  to her 
emails and that it twisted her words  and accused  her of being dishonest.
From what  Ive seen, RSA began questioning Mrs D further, when it seemed that after it 
declined her claim for storm damage, an attempt was being made to claim for the same  
damage, but for a different reason. It later became  apparent that this was a breakdown  in 
communication between  the parties  as a result of Mrs Ds broker not informing  her that her 
claim for storm  damage  had already  been  declined. 
I can understand why Mrs D felt her honesty  was being questioned. But based on the 
information RSA had, I dont think it was wrong for it to ask further questions regarding the 
claim  or for it to speak with her contractor. And when it was established Mrs D wasnt 
trying to make a new claim  RSA acknowledged this and explained why the issue  had 
occurred. But it maintained its position  to decline the claim for storm, which  I agree with. So 
Im satisfied it dealt with this matter  fairly.
In relation to email  response times, Ive not seen excessive or avoidable  delays in RSAs 
handling of the claim.  So I wont be asking RSA to do anything further in relation to these 
points.
 
Ref: DRN79067944my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D, Mr D and 
Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7906794