K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about Adrian Flux Insurance Services Groups service concerning a 
motor insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 6 June 2019.  For ease I've repeated the majority of that 
below. I said:
Mr G asked  Adrian  Flux to provide him with a quote to insure his new car. It asked him if 
hed earned any no claims bonus  (NCB).  Mr G said hed been riding a scooter  for two years 
and had earned an NCB on that. Adrian Flux provided a quote with two years no claims 
bonus, underwritten  by an insurer (the insurer) which is independent  from Adrian Flux. Mr G 
bought the policy. Adrian  Flux arranged for a finance company to provide credit for the 
premium, so Mr G could  repay it in monthly instalments by direct  debit.
The next month the insurer  said that Mr G wasn't entitled to any NCB. So it recalculated  the 
premium and charged around  £374 more. After  Mr G complained the insurer agreed to 
reduce the additional premium to around  £115.
Mr G wasn't happy and cancelled his policy. Adrian  Flux said that after cancelling  the policy  
Mr G still owed about £210. Mr G brought his complaint about that to us. 
Adrian Flux agreed  to waive  the £210 still owing but Mr G didn't  think  that went  far enough. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  Adrian Flux had dealt  with Mr G reasonably. So she said it 
should pay Mr G £100 compensation.
Mr G didn't think that was fair enough  so his complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
NCB and additional premium  
Adrian Flux is an insurance broker. That means  it sells and administers insurance policies 
but doesnt provide the cover or set the premiums charged.  And it was the insurer  that told 
Adrian Flux to charge the additional premium, thats not something Adrian Flux is 
responsible for. But, as Adrian Flux was selling the policy, I think  it had a responsibility to 
give Mr G enough information to make an informed decision about  whether or not the policy 
and premium were suitable for him.
I've listened  to the call when Mr G bought his policy. At the time, Mr G was still under 18 
years old. Adrian Flux specifically asked  him if hed earned any NCB while  riding a moped. 
Mr G said that hed ridden  a 50cc scooter  for two years and hed earned NCB for that. He 
added that he currently had another policy for a car he was selling and the moped NCB had 
been applied  to that. He said he was planning  to cancel  that policy as hed sold his old car.  
Adrian Flux said it would see if it could apply the NCB when looking for quotes. After doing  
that it offered  Mr G a policy for around  £2,160  a year. That price included  two years NCB. 
Ref: DRN70020722Mr G bought that policy. Later in the call Adrian Flux told Mr G that hed need  to send it proof  
of his private car no claims.
Mr G provided  a copy of a letter from his insurers showing he had two years NCB from a 
motorcycle policy. Adrian Flux checked  with his previous car insurer  who said the bike NCB 
hadn't been applied  to his car policy. And Mr G hadn't had the car policy for long enough to 
earn any NCB on it. In other words it said that Mr G didn't have any private  car NCB. 
Mr Gs new insurer  wouldn't accept the two years bike policy NCB.  So it charged Mr G the 
balance of the cost of the policy without it. As a result Mr Gs monthly instalments increased 
and Mr G cancelled the policy. In the process he incurred charges for a number of things 
including Adrian Fluxs admin fees, loss of commission, the cost of a telematics box, and 
charges for other associated polices that were non-refundable. So Ive thought very carefully  
about whether  or not it was fair for Adrian Flux to charge Mr G for any of those things.
When gathering information  to provide  quotes brokers will require potential  policyholders  to 
provide accurate information. That should enable a broker to provide sufficient information 
so that a consumer  can make an informed choice about whether a policy is suitable for 
them. So its equally  important that when  sourcing  such polices a broker  takes care to 
accurately report what a consumer has told it.
In this case I think Mr G answered Adrian Fluxs questions to the best of his knowledge.  It 
specifically asked him if hed earned any NCB  on a moped and he answered that he had. He 
didn't at any point  say hed earned  NCB on a private car. But it seems thats the way Adrian 
Flux used  the information hed given it. That is, it recorded Mr G as having two years  NCB 
applicable to a car policy; even though  it must have known Mr G wasnt  old enough to have  
held a UK driving licence for a full year. So his chance of having earned  NCB from a private 
car policy was extremely remote.  
Adrian Flux mistakenly  provided a quote  based on two years NCB on a private car, rather  
than any NCB earned on a moped.  Im satisfied that mistake  was Adrian Fluxs alone and 
not because of anything Mr G did or didn't  say. So the premium quote  that Mr G accepted 
was artificially low because it included  a two year no claims discount  he wasn't entitled to 
under the insurer's rules.  And if it hadn't been  for Adrian Fluxs  mistake with the NCB then 
the insurer wouldnt later have charged the additional premium.  Because Mr G wouldn't have 
been offered a policy at a premium of £2,160  in the first place. And theres  no guarantee that 
if Adrian Flux had quoted the higher price Mr G would have accepted it.
So I can understand Mr Gs unhappiness when Adrian Flux said hed need  to pay an 
additional premium.  I understand that prompted Mr G to cancel the policy. And as a result he 
had to pay additional fees and charges.  He wouldn't have been charged for those 
cancellation costs  if it wasn't for Adrian Fluxs mistake. So I don't think the charges were fair.
To put things right Mr G thinks  that Adrian Flux should refund him everything hes paid. In 
contrast Adrian Flux said it would  cover the remaining £210  that Mr G still owed after 
cancelling the policy. But I don't  think either position is fair.
Its clear that Mr G was happy  to accept the policy on the basis  of a cost of £2,160 (inclusive  
of Adrian Fluxs fees). And he did have the benefit  of the cover up until the day he cancelled 
the policy. So I think its reasonable  that he pays a proportionate sum for the time he actually 
benefited from the insurers cover at the price Adrian  Flux originally quoted  him. 
Ref: DRN70020723I understand Mr G was covered from 2 November 2017 to 11 January  2018,  which  is 71 
days. So I think its reasonable that Mr G pays for that time on cover. Ive seen that the 
insurer charged a premium of £1,903.50 for the year.  So I think  an appropriate charge for 
Mr Gs time on cover  is [(1,903.50365) x 71] £370.27. 
According to the information Adrian Flux has shown me Mr G made payments totalling 
£749.88 towards cover. So I think hes paid more than the cost for his time on cover. It 
follows that I think Adrian  Flux should refund the difference,  which I calculate to be [749.88  
370.27] £379.61. It should  add simple interest  at a rate of 8% a year to that sum from the 
date Mr G cancelled his policy to the date it makes  payment. It should also liaise  with the 
finance provider  to ensure that any debt associated with the credit  is marked  as paid on any 
credit materials and/or  databases.  And write to Mr G to confirm thats happened.
Im also aware that this complaint  has been a considerable source of unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience  for Mr G. Particularly  as hes been out of pocket while  pursuing  it and 
hes had additional  concerns over whether or not the matter  was affecting his dads credit 
record. To address  that I think it should  pay him £250 compensation.
guarantor
Mr Gs complained that he didn't give consent  for his dad to be added as a guarantor to the 
credit agreement. But I think Mr Gs mistaken.  When Mr G took out the policy  he was still 17.  
And in the initial sales call he set up the credit agreement in his fathers  name and with his 
dads bank details.  And I've seen that the finance  company set up the credit  in Mr Gs dads  
name. The credit agreement didn't mention Mr G in person at all. And the agreements  
documents confirmed  that in order to benefit  from it the credit  holder would have to be over 
18 years  old. I've also heard Adrian Flux tell Mr G during that sales call that it would need to 
put his dad down as a guarantor. So I don't think it added Mr Gs dad to the credit  agreement 
without Mr Gs consent.
developments
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision.  Adrian Flux replied  and said: I can advise that the 
customer confirmed that the NCB, although earned on a motorcycle, was coming via a 
private car policy that he would be cancelling. If he had done that, there would  have been  no 
additional premium  and he would not have chosen  to cancel.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Adrian Fluxs  response to my provisional  decision  implies that it was Mr Gs mistake that led 
it to incorrectly say that he had two years private car NCB. But I've listened  to the relevant 
call very carefully. And I remain  satisfied that Mr G answered Adrian Fluxs questions to the 
best of his knowledge and that the confusion that arose  was because of Adrian Fluxs error 
in recording what Mr G had told it. It follows that I don't intend to amend my provisional 
findings as set out above.
Ref: DRN70020724my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Adrian Flux Insurance  
Services Group to:
Refund the sum of £379.61  to Mr G. It should  add simple  interest  to that amount from 
the date Mr G cancelled  his policy to the date it makes payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple1.
Liaise  with the finance company to ensure  that any debt associated with Mr Gs 
policy is cleared and recorded as such on credit databases. It should  write to Mr G to 
confirm this has happened.
Pay Mr G £250 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience  arising  from 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Adrian Flux should  pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr G has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Adrian Flux considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7002072