K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Amigo Loans Ltd (AL) shouldnt have accepted  him as a guarantor  for 
a loan.
Mr F is represented  in this complaint by his mother.
background
Mr F says he believes AL didnt adequately check his income or credit rating before 
accepting him as a guarantor. And he says it relied  on inaccurate income figures  and said he 
had a fantastic  credit rating, when hed not previously  had any credit agreements. 
So, Mr F says he wants AL to remove him as a guarantor and pursue the borrower for the 
loan instead.
AL says as part of his application  to become  a guarantor  Mr F completed an income  and 
expenditure assessment online.  It says he told it he had two part-time  jibs and earned 
£1,696.67 each month. It says it compared  the expenditure he told it about with the national  
average to make sure it was reasonable. And it says it also reviewed his credit  file to make  
sure all of his expenditure was taken into consideration.
AL also says it verified the information Mr F gave it about his income using a service 
provided by a third party business. It says that it uses a number of data points to assess  
whether the total expenditure hed stated, the monthly loan instalment and an emergency 
buffer of £150 were  affordable  to him, based on his income. And it says this confirmed he 
could afford  to pay the loan instalment of £292.54  each month alongside his day to day living 
costs, if required to do so and still be left with at least  £150 each month.
In addition, AL says before the loan was paid out it spoke to Mr F to make  sure he 
understood his role as guarantor and was happy to proceed with his guarantee agreement.
So, AL says the checks it completed on Mr F and the information  he gave it during his 
application were  reasonable and proportional when  compared to the money being borrowed.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Fs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  He said he still feels hes being treated 
unfairly. He said to his knowledge the borrowers  currently working and ALs making no effort 
to locate him. And he says he agreed to be a guarantor on the basis  that the borrower  
couldnt pay. But he says the borrowers simply walked away  and refused to pay anything  
further. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN74565072I delayed making my decision in this case as Mr Fs representative had indicated she wished 
to send some further information for me to consider. Ive now received this information and 
Ive taken it into account, but it doesnt change my decision, for the reasons indicated  below.
I see Mr F had acted  as a guarantor on two previous  loans to the same borrower. But he 
isnt being asked to make repayments under these loans. So, my decision concentrates  on 
the third loan Mr F agreed  to guarantee, which was in July 2017 for £7,500 repayable  over 
60 months, with repayments of just under £300 per month.
Theres no specific list of checks a lender must carry out before deciding to make a loan or 
to accept someone as a guarantor for somebody elses borrowing. Ive noted the information 
ALs given us about the checks it carried out and the information it relied on when agreeing 
to accept Mr F as a guarantor.
I see the information Mr F gave AL indicated his income was relatively high for a student  
working part time. And I note he didnt have a credit history at the time.  So, in these  
circumstances I think it would be reasonable to expect AL to have done more to check  the 
overall state of his finances, such as by reviewing his bank statements.
However, I see Mr Fs given us his bank  statements from the relevant time. These show he 
was earning on average around £840 per month  and he had very little essential spending on 
items such as food, bills and clothing.  So, I think even if AL had considered  this information, 
it wouldve  indicated the monthly payments shouldve been  affordable  to Mr F if it needed to 
enforce the guarantee hed given.
I acknowledge Mr F thinks its unfair that ALs now chasing him for the repayments the 
borrower isnt making. And Ive sympathy  for him. But I think the guarantee agreement he 
signed clearly explains  that AL is entitled to seek payment from him in these circumstances.   
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Amigo Loans Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7456507