K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mrs Ss complaint is about a mortgage  they took out with HSBC UK Bank  Plc to 
buy land. They say that HSBC or their agents failed to put insurance into place to protect 
them and the mortgage in the event the land wasnt worth what they paid for it.
background
Mrs B and Mrs S took out a commercial  mortgage with HSBC  to buy a farm. They  say there 
was a discrepancy over ownership of nearby brooks  which  Mrs B and Mrs S thought  they 
were purchasing. Because of this the question of a commercial risk policy being taken out 
was raised between HSBC and their solicitors. Mrs B and Mrs S say they thought the policy 
had been taken out and that theyd paid for it. 
It was later discovered that the brooks werent included in the land purchased which  caused  
significant problems  for Mrs B and Mrs S as it meant  their livestock  couldnt access water.  
As a result they sold the property,  but at considerably  less than theyd bought  it for. They 
also discovered that the policy hadnt been  put into place so they werent  able to claim for 
the loss they made or use funds from it for a potential claim to buy another  parcel of land 
that did have access to water.
Mrs B and Mrs S say that HSBC or their solicitors, as their agents are responsible for this 
and had they put the policy in place, they wouldnt have found  themselves in this position. 
HSBC dont agree. They  say they werent  obliged to put a policy  in place and it wasnt  a 
condition of the mortgage that they do this. They also say that the issue  of the insurance 
wouldve been part of a discussion between their solicitors and those of Mrs B and Mrs Ss 
solicitors. 
Our investigator assessed Mrs B and Mrs Ss complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that whilst HSBCs  solicitors  did advise HSBC to put insurance into place, 
that insurance was for the benefit  of HSBC.  That means  that Mrs B and Mrs S wouldnt have 
been entitled to complain  about this insurance.  In addition he said that Mrs B and Mrs S 
were provided with a draft policy and quotation but didnt take it up- presumably with the 
benefit of advice from their own solicitor.
Mrs B and Mrs S dont agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mrs B and 
Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Its clear to me that the issue of an indemnity  policy was discussed between HSBC  and their 
solicitors. Based on what Mrs B and Mrs S have said (through  their representative)  the policy 
was something they had some awareness of. 
HSBCs solicitors sent HSBC a document before completion of the mortgage which said:
"We can confirm  that on completion  we will put in place an indemnity policy. The limit of 
Indemnity will be £901,000 and will cover HSBC Bank plc and successors in title".
Ref: DRN78802422The policy was therefore for the benefit of HSBC. What is less clear  is why the insurance 
wasnt set up. The documents  Ive seen arent of any assistance.  It couldve been because 
HSBC didnt take up the recommendation made  by their solicitors or that their solicitors  
simply failed to put the insurance into place. But I dont think  this matters much. I say so 
because like the investigator, Ive seen two quotations for commercial  risk policies that 
appear to have been obtained by HSBCs solicitors. One of those covered insolvency- deed  
of gift/undervalue  transaction. That policy named  HSBC as the insured. So the beneficiary of 
the policy wasnt intended to be for Mrs B and Mrs S, which means  they could never have 
claimed on it. The policy was intended  to protect  HSBCs interest.  And it wasnt  a condition 
of the mortgage  that HSBC took this policy out. So although Mrs B and Mrs S might have felt 
reassured by the suggestion of HSBC taking such a policy out, I dont think  it offered them 
the safety they thought  theyd have had even if HSBC had taken up the policy. The only way 
they couldve guaranteed  that, was to take out a policy in their own names. 
This brings  me onto the second quotation  obtained  by HSBCs solicitors which was for 
chancel repair and adverse possession.  It named Mrs B and Mrs S as the insureds. 
Although Mrs B and Mrs S dont appear to be complaining about this particular policy not 
being set up, its possible  that it might have covered them for some of their losses. I say so 
because the insurer  of that policy has told us that it wouldve  covered  a claim by a third party  
against title to land because part of the land Mrs B and Mrs S thought they were buying 
didnt properly appear to be within the title of the land being purchased.  In addition the 
insurer offered additional cover which provides a more comprehensive policy  for your 
client, such as inflation, loss of profits, consequential  loss and cover for hidden/unknown title 
defects." The insurer of that policy has told us that they received no further requests for 
quotations.
Mrs B and Mrs S say they thought a comprehensive  policy was being  put in place and that 
theyd paid roughly £890  for this. But I cant reconcile  this with any of the quotations provided 
for insurance. Nor do any of the documents Ive seen confirm  that this amount was intended 
to represent payment for commercial risk insurance  of any kind. In addition I havent  seen 
any specific instructions from Mrs B and Mrs S to HSBCs solicitors (whether directly  or 
through their own solicitors) to set any insurance up. Its of note that Mrs B and Mrs S did 
have their own solicitors instructed throughout the conveyancing process, so I wouldve 
expected them to be aware of and involved in discussions surrounding insurance.  After all, 
HSBCs solicitors duty was to HSBC in the same way that Mrs B and Mrs Ss solicitors  was 
to them.  Because  of this I dont think that HSBC did anything  wrong. 
Mrs B and Mrs S have said HSBC shouldve  told them they werent putting any insurance 
into place so Mrs B and Mrs S could  arrange  it for themselves. But I dont think  thats  right. 
As Ive said,  Mrs B and Mrs S were represented  in this matter  so it was a matter for their 
solicitors to make relevant enquiries  and advise them accordingly. If they didnt do so, thats 
something Mrs B and Mrs S should take up with their solicitors directly.
Ref: DRN78802423my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mrs Ss complaint against HSBC  
UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7880242