K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about the way Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) 
handled a claim  under their home insurance  policy, including the amount it offered as a cash  
settlement, after their house was damaged by a fire. 
background 
In June 2018, a fire occurred in Mr and Mrs Bs house which  caused  damage to their kitchen 
and other  areas.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their policy which L&G accepted. It arranged for them  and 
their three children to move to alternative accommodation (AA) while  repair work was carried 
out.
Mr and Mrs B became dissatisfied  with certain aspects  of L&Gs handling  of their claim. This 
included the AA arrangements. It also included the quality of work and behaviour of L&Gs 
contractors. As a result of this dissatisfaction, Mr and Mrs B said they wanted a cash 
settlement so they could use their own contractors to complete the work.
L&G offered  a settlement based,  in part, on how much  it would  have cost it had it used  its 
own supplier to provide  a replacement kitchen. However, Mr and Mrs B obtained  quotes  for 
a replacement kitchen  which  were significantly more than this. They disputed that L&Gs  
quote was for a like-for-like replacement of their old kitchen. L&G maintained  that its offer 
was fair and that the quotes which Mr and Mrs B had obtained were for a kitchen  of better 
quality than their old kitchen. It paid a cash  settlement  of £17,500  to cover the cost of 
replacing the kitchen  (based on using its own supplier) and other  outstanding  repairs.  
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy. They used their own contractors to fit a kitchen from their 
preferred supplier but this left them with a shortfall  of approximately  £2,000. They  
complained to L&G about its handling  of the claim and the settlement offer.
L&G issued a final response letter in which it maintained that the settlement offer was fair. It 
acknowledged, however, that there  had been some failings in its service. It offered £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  which  had been caused  to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B were  dissatisfied by L&Gs response. They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He was 
eventually satisfied that L&Gs cash settlement offer was fair. However, he noted  the various 
problems which had occurred during  the claim which he thought could have  been  avoided if 
L&G had handled  matters better. He considered it should pay Mr and Mrs B a further £500 
compensation for its poor service.
Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators recommendation in respect of the compensation 
for poor service. However, they didnt accept the investigators findings  in respect of the cash  
settlement. They said L&Gs  kitchen supplier had to review its quote several times after they 
highlighted ways  in which its proposed  kitchen  differed from their old kitchen. They pointed 
out that, in the opinion of their own kitchen supplier, L&G was quoting  for an inferior quality 
kitchen. They questioned the veracity  of a report provided by L&G which supported  that its 
suppliers kitchen matched the quality of their old kitchen.
Ref: DRN75888402In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider that this 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. I shall explain  why.
There is no dispute that L&G didnt handle the claim as well as it should  have done. The 
investigator has described the various  failings.
In particular, L&G failed  to manage  the AA arrangements adequately. It only booked 
accommodation for two weeks at a time.  As a result, on a number of occasions during the 
four months they were  in AA, Mr and Mrs B had to move hotels or between rooms  within  a 
hotel. There was a period  during which they were unable to stay together as a family in the 
same room, and another period during which they were forced to move to accommodation  
further from their home which meant additional commuting time for Mrs B. And on another 
occasion, they were  forced to find accommodation  themselves at short notice. I consider that 
this would all have  been very unsettling  for Mr and Mrs B.
There was also a delay  caused when L&Gs contractor used the wrong coloured paint. 
L&Gs cleaner  cancelled a visit without telling  Mr B who was waiting at the property to allow 
them entry. Mr and Mrs B report other examples of poor communication  from the 
contractors. And Mr and Mrs B were  upset to find the contractors had left behind cigarette 
butts in their garden, particularly as they are a non-smoking household and their property 
had been damaged by fire. I consider that these avoidable incidents would have added to 
Mr and Mrs Bs trouble and upset.
Furthermore, there is evidence that a scheduled  clean  of Mr and Mrs Bs property was not 
carried out thoroughly.  As a result, the cleaning company had to come  back and clean the 
property again.  This is further evidence of poor claims  handling.
L&G has already  agreed to pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation for its poor service. The 
investigator considered  that this wasnt enough and L&G should pay an additional £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  which  it had caused to Mr and Mrs B. I consider that 
this is fair. I note that L&G has agreed  to pay this additional amount.
With regard to the kitchen, this had been  in place  when  Mr and Mrs B moved to the property 
over ten years earlier. It wasnt possible to now source an exact  replacement.  L&G therefore  
invited its supplier to quote  for providing a replacement  kitchen  of a similar standard.  Im 
satisfied that this was an appropriate approach.
L&Gs supplier produced a quote  of £5,067 (including VAT). This was later increased to 
£5,581 (including VAT)  to take account of a couple of units which had been missed off, and 
to upgrade the quality of the doors  to solid wood.
Mr and Mrs B dispute that this quote was for a kitchen of the same quality as their old 
kitchen. They point  to the fact they obtained  two quotes for what  they say were like-for-like 
replacements which were  both significantly higher  than L&Gs suppliers quote. They  have 
also provided an email from their preferred supplier in which he disputes  that L&Gs supplier 
is providing a like-for-like replacement.
Ref: DRN75888403However, L&G has shown  that its loss adjuster visited the property and confirmed that the 
old kitchen had carcasses of standard 38mm  laminated chipboard with ply backing boards. 
The loss adjuster accepted the doors were made of solid wood. The loss adjuster, L&Gs  
contractor and its kitchen  supplier all agreed that the proposed replacement kitchen was of 
an equal or better standard than the old kitchen. 
When it made its cash settlement, L&G increased  the amount by a further £1,600,  bringing  
the kitchen element of the overall  settlement to £7,181, to allow  for the fact that its suppliers 
quote didnt include  glass fronts or under-unit lighting, and was based  on appliances which 
were of lower quality than those which were in the property  before the fire. 
Im satisfied that L&G has reasonably shown that the kitchen on which  it eventually  based its 
cash settlement was a like-for-like replacement of Mr and Mrs Bs old kitchen. I dont 
consider that Mr and Mrs B have shown that L&Gs cash settlement was based on the 
provision of an inferior kitchen to what they had before. A number of the concerns raised by 
their preferred kitchen  supplier were addressed by the adjustments  to the original quote 
made by the supplier  and then by L&G. The fact that Mr and Mrs B ended  up paying more  by 
using their preferred  supplier doesnt  necessarily mean that L&G acted unfairly. It was 
Mr and Mrs Bs decision  to seek a cash settlement and, in these circumstances, L&G was 
required to pay only what it would have  paid its own contractors and suppliers to do the 
work. I nonetheless note that when making  its cash settlement, L&G allowed for the cost of 
fitting the kitchen  based  on Mr and Mrs Bs contractors quote  rather  than the lower amount if 
it had used its own contractor.
Overall, Im satisfied that L&Gs cash settlement was fair and was based on a like-for-like 
replacement of Mr and Mrs Bs old kitchen.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs B a further £500 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 September 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588840