K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains about issues  shes experienced with the supply and installation of a kitchen 
financed by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF).
background 
In July 2018 Ms M purchased a fitted  kitchen  from a third party  retailer  and entered  into a 
fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The agreement was for a term of 60 months and was 
subject to a 12 month  buy now pay later period.
Installation of the kitchen began in July 2018. In December 2018 Ms M contacted BPF to 
advise that remedial work was outstanding.  BPF opened a section  75 claim and closed 
having paid Ms M £75 for distress and inconvenience. 
Later in December 2018 BPF was advised by the retailer that The Furniture Ombudsman 
(TFO) was involved and that remedial works were to be undertaken with Ms M receiving a 
refund of £2100 for the cost of a replacement cooker. The retailer  agreed to refund £858.60  
in respect of other  items  Ms M had purchased.
In late December 2018 Ms M advised BPF that the remedial works  werent  complete. Ms M 
is unhappy about the following issues:
She believes she was mis-sold the agreement because she was told by the retailer 
that it wouldnt be paid until the installation was completed
She believes the interest free period   shouldnt  start to run until the installation  has 
been completed
She wants interest on the loan agreement adjusted to reflect the refund shes 
received from the retailer
She feels that BPF didnt check whether the installation had been completed before 
closing her Section  75 claim
She believes that the loan shouldve been put on hold whilst the complaint was 
ingoing
Her credit file has been  negatively impacted
BPF says that in April 2019 Ms M and the retailer agreed a snagging list of work that needed 
to be completed.  It says that since then the retailer has been trying to arrange a convenient 
day for Ms M to clear the kitchen and for the work to be completed.  BPF says that Ms M has 
told the retailer that she can only accommodate the fitters at the weekend  because she 
works during the week. The retailers fitters  dont  work at weekends.
During the investigation by this service, the retailer offered a cash  settlement of £300 for 
Ms M to arrange her own fitters  to complete the remedial work.  Ms M wasnt happy with the 
offer. She says it doesnt address the faulty  flooring and that it will take time for her to find a 
new fitter. Shes  also concerned that the guarantee will be affected if a third party completes 
the work.  Ms M was unhappy  that BPF hadnt refunded  the extra interest  charged  on the 
initial higher  loan amount and that the interest  free period hadnt  been extended.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the mis-sale aspect of Ms Ms complaint.  She said the terms 
and conditions of the loan agreement  stated that BPF would pay the retailer when the goods 
were received. The investigator didnt think the interest free period should be extended 
Ref: DRN76608852because the loan agreement stated that interest would  be charged if the finance wasnt 
settled within  12 months.  The investigator  said that BPF should adjust the interest  on the 
loan to reflect the refund given by the retailer.
The investigator felt that the offer of £300 for Ms M to employ her ow fitters  was a fair 
alternative to the retailer sending  fitters at no cost during working  hours. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said shed  obtained  a quote from her own fitters to complete  the 
installation and deal with the snagging issues and it would cost over £2000. She didnt think  
the offer of £300 was fair. Ms M was unhappy that her concerns about  the way BPF had 
handled her complaint hadnt been  addressed.  She said that part of the finance agreement  
related to the installation of the kitchen and felt that the interest free period should be 
adjusted to reflect the fact that installation had not yet been completed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M relies on the rights she has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. I think  
its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services  
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 
75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Ms Ms complaint, Ive taken section 75 into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome as, for example,  a 
court might reach if Ms M pursued a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Because BPF has financed the kitchen  under a fixed sum loan agreement, its equally 
responsible with the supplier if theres  been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says that goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply,  and that services need  to be performed with reasonable skill and care.  If this 
isnt the case  then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
A misrepresentation is where the business makes  an untrue statement of fact which  induces 
a consumer to enter into the agreement.
Has there  been  a breach  of contract?
Ive looked at all of the available  evidence, including the corrective  snagging report.  Ive had 
regard to the fact that there  has been  a significant delay in completing  the remedial works.  
Ive looked at the photos provided by Ms M and Ive taken account  of everything shes said 
about the issues shes experienced with the installation.
Theres no dispute that some remedial works need  to be carried out. The extent of the work  
is set out in the snagging list, which has been  signed by Ms M. BPF has said that the kitchen 
is complete and fully functioning with only a few snagging issues to complete.  Ms M has said 
that the work  required to complete the snagging  list is substantial.
Having considered the snagging list carefully, Im persuaded that some  remedial work  needs 
to be done. But I dont think the snagging  issues are sufficient in number or degree for me to 
conclude that the kitchen  isnt of satisfactory quality or that the installation hasnt been 
carried out with reasonable  skill and care.
Ref: DRN76608853I can see that the snagging  list was agreed a while  ago and several  months have passed 
without the work being completed. Id expect remedial works to be carried  out promptly.  In 
this case, I can see that the retailer has offered to complete the remedial works but Ms M 
hasnt been prepared to allow the works  to be carried out during working  hours on a 
weekday, even  though  shes  been  advised that the retailers fitters dont work at weekends.  
Whilst I appreciate that Ms M might be reluctant to take a day off work to let the fitters in, I 
dont think its unreasonable or unusual for the fitters to work on weekdays only.  So I cant  
fairly say that the business  is responsible for the delay in completing the snagging works.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that theres  been  a breach of contact.  
However, I think the snagging  issues  should  be completed. I think  the retailer has made  
reasonable efforts to arrange this. In the circumstances, I think the offer of £300 for Ms M to 
arrange a fitter is fair. I appreciate that Ms M has said it will cost more than this but I havent  
seen any evidence to persuade me that this is the case, or anything to suggest  that £300  
isnt a reasonable sum to cover the costs  of a fitter to complete the snagging list.
Has there  been  a misrepresentation?
Ms M has said that the loan was mis-sold because she was told by the retailer  that it 
wouldnt receive payment  from BPF until the installation  was completed. She says she 
agreed to enter into the loan agreement o that basis.
There arent any notes of the discussions  which took place between Ms M and the retailer.  I 
wasnt present so I cant be certain  of what was said.  In circumstances like these, I need to 
look at the available documents as the best evidence of what was discussed and agreed.
Ive looked at the loan agreement. The terms and conditions say that BPF will pay the loan 
amount to the retailer after Ms M has received the goods. I can see that Ms M has signed  
the agreement  and in doing  so has agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions. I would 
have expected Ms M to have read the agreement  before signing it, so Im satisfied  she 
wouldve been aware that the retailer would receive  payments as soon as the goods were  
delivered.
I appreciate that Ms M says that she was told something different by the retailer.  But I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me of that.
In relation to the interest free period, Ms M says that this shouldnt start to run until the 
installation has been completed.  Its not clear  whether Ms M says she was told this by the 
retailer, but Ive considered that possibility in the context of the mis-sale complaint. As 
above, I need to look at the available documentary evidence. The loan agreement  states  that 
interest will be added to the loan if the finance  isnt settled in full in the first 12 months. 
Theres nothing in the agreement o suggest that the interest free period would be extended 
in any circumstances.  As above, Im of the view that Ms M was aware (or ought to have 
been aware) of the interest  free period. Im unable to say that BPF has done anything wrong 
or acted  unfairly  by adding interest  to the loan.
I can see that the retailer has agreed  to refund Ms M the sum of £858.60. This was credited 
to the account  in March 2019.  If it hasnt  done  so already, BPF should adjust interest on the 
loan to reflect this refund.
Complaint handling
Ref: DRN76608854Ms M has expressed  concern about  the way BPF handled her Section 75 claim. She also 
feels that the loan shouldve  been  put on hold whilst  her complaint was ongoing,  and is 
concerned about  entries on her credit  file.
Ive taken account of what  Ms M has said but I dont think BPF has dealt with her complaint  
unfairly. Based on what Ive seen, BPF has liaised with the retailer to try and find a 
resolution. I dont think BPF acted  unreasonably in closing Ms Ms Section 75 complaint 
because on the evidence available, I dont think there was enough evidence to show  that 
there had been  a breach  of contact or a misrepresentation. I wouldnt expect a finance  
provider to suspend  a customers obligation  to make loan repayments whilst a complaint was 
ongoing. I havent been provided with a copy of Ms Ms credit file so I cant  say whether 
there are any relevant adverse entries.  But to the extent that Ms M hasnt made payments 
due under the loan, BPF has an obligation  to report missed or late payments  to the credit 
reference agencies.  
Ms M has also raised  concerns regarding the flooring and the guarantee. In relation to the 
flooring, this issue was dealt with by TFO and the retailer has agreed  to provide a pack of 
flooring. In relation to the guarantee, and in light of my decision that Ms M should arrange 
her own fitter, I wouldnt expect the business to guarantee  any work undertaken by someone  
who isnt contracted  by them. I think  the business has made reasonable attempts to arrange  
a time for its own fitters to complete the work  but it hasnt been  able to do so because of 
Ms Ms reluctance  for the work to be carried out during the week. In the circumstances,  I 
wont be asking the business to do anything  further in relation to the guarantee.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I think BPF responded fairly and 
reasonably to Ms Ms Section 75 claim.  I think the offer to pay £300 for Ms M to arrange  a 
fitter is fair.
If it hasnt  done  so already, Barclays Partner Finance should adjust the interest  on the loan 
ton reflect the refund made  by the retailer and ensure  that the retailer pays  the £100 
compensation to Ms M as recommended in TFOs report.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7660885