K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement  wasnt  
of satisfactory quality.
background
In April 2018  Miss S acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase  agreement.  The 
car was around 5 years old and had a mileage of 81,500.
Miss S says she took the car back due to noises it made while driving.  The dealership says 
Miss S raised an issue  with the brakes, and that it accompanied her on two road tests but 
no faults could  be found. However,  the dealership cleaned the front brakes and a further 
test drive was undertaken. The dealership says Miss S confirmed the problem  had been  
resolved.
In June 2018  Miss S says the car went into limp mode and a code indicating reduced 
engine power was showing  on the dashboard. Miss S says that she has a close  relative,  
Mr O, who is an experienced car mechanic and so she sought  his advice.
Mr O arranged for the car to be inspected  at his garage and said it appeared to be a 
fuel injector problem  and that the number 4 injector needed to be replaced.
Miss S took the car back to the dealership. The dealership says the car was inspected and 
a number of fault codes were revealed  following a diagnostic check. The dealership  says 
this can occur if historical codes arent cleared. It cleared the codes and took the car for a 
test drive during  which it performed as expected.  The dealership cleaned the EGR valve  as 
it says it was common for this to become blocked  in this particular model of car. It also 
added injector  cleaning additive which it says is good practice. The car was returned to 
Miss S.
Miss S continued  to use the car until August 2018  when  it broke  down. Miss S says the 
same fault code as before  was displayed  on the dashboard. She arranged  for the car to 
be collected by Mr O. Mr O says that with the dealerships  permission his garage checked 
the engine and found there was a loss of compression  to cylinders 3 and 4. 
The car was returned to the dealership and Miss S told it there  were  two faulty injectors. 
Mr O informed the dealership there was a compression issue.  The dealership agreed to 
investigate the car but said that the warranty had now expired and that due to the passage 
of time and number of miles driven it would be for Miss S to prove  the fault had been 
present since the point  of sale. The dealership provided Miss S with a courtesy car.
Unfortunately, there followed  a breakdown  in the relationship between Miss S and the 
dealership over the repairs the car required.  The dealership took photos  of the car and says 
that there was now body  damage that hadnt  been present when the car had been sold to 
Miss S. It also says the wear of the tyres indicated the car had been  driven  at speed into 
corners. The dealership  declined to further repair the car and it was taken back  to the 
garage owned by Mr O.
Miss S complained to Startline who arranged for the car to be independently inspected.  
The independent engineer said that when the car was started it had excessive misfiring  
Ref: DRN71953222which grew worse the longer the engine  idled. The engineer said there  was an internal 
fault with the engine  that required further  investigation.
The independent engineer said in their opinion, due to the number of miles driven (6,500) 
since the point  of sale; the fault wouldnt have  been  present when  Miss S had acquired 
the car.
The independent engineer also said that in order to confirm that the current issues with the 
car were related to the previous repairs they would need to see detailed copies of invoices 
or job cards so that any completed repair could be tested against  the current condition. They 
said smoking engines  as found  here were usually  due to injector issues which were 
normally related to wear and tear.
Miss S complained to this service. During  our adjudicators investigation  Startline issued its 
final response letter to Miss S. It said it didnt uphold her complaint as the independent 
engineer had found that at this stage the evidence is not compelling that the current  
condition has been present for 6,500 miles and latent. As such we cannot suggest the 
selling agent is responsible for this defect.
Miss S provided  a report prepared by Mr O about the condition of the car. Mr O says that 
after stripping the engine and seeking  advice from an engine specialist his garage had 
discovered that the number 4 injector  had melted the number 4 piston, and melted  the 
cylinder head which had caused  a loss of compression. Mr O says the damage was due 
to the number 4 injector not functioning  properly and not being replaced  in June when first 
diagnosed. Mr O says that in his opinion the amount  of damage  that had been caused 
wouldnt have resulted from the car being driven 3,500 or from the time the fault had first 
shown on their diagnostics to the engine completely failing.
Our adjudicator recommended that Miss Ss complaint  should  be upheld.  He said he 
preferred the evidence  provided by Mr O. Our adjudicator said that he didnt think  the 
independent engineers report was conclusive as, unlike Mr O, they hadnt actually 
stripped the engine. He said he thought  a full repair should have been carried  out in 
June 2018.
Our adjudicator said that Startline should  pay Miss S the cost of the repairs  that had 
been subsequently undertaken by her relative on her behalf which  amounted to 
£3,039.15.
Startline disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  It raised the following issues:
 That as it was either  a relative  of Miss S, or the relatives employee who 
had inspected the car, then their findings  couldnt be said to be truly 
objective.
 That Miss S should have provided an estimate for any repairs  and discussed  
going ahead with them before doing so.
 That by having the car repaired  there was now no opportunity  to check if the 
cleaning fluid had melted  the injectors.
 That it was unhappy the relative had only provided their process  for their diagnosis  
of the cars faults after the repairs. There didnt appear to be an assessment prepared  
of what had been found before work  was started.
 The invoice on the repairs carried  out was only a list of parts,  it contained 
no diagnostics, date or mileage for the car
Ref: DRN71953223 If Miss S had been aware  the car required a new injector in June  2018  why 
she hadnt challenged the engineer when only cleaning fluid had been  added.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines.
Firstly I thought  there  was some confusion on Startlines part as to what Miss S was saying 
about the cause of the damage to the injector.  Startline said it was Miss Ss evidence  that it 
was the cleaning fluid added to the injector that had caused it to melt. But, although Id seen  
that Miss S had said that the dealerships repairs had damaged  the engine,  the opinion  
provided by Mr O was that it was the failure  to repair the number 4 injector in June 2018 
(when the car had first displayed the fault code  for loss of power)  which had subsequently 
resulted in the damage to the engine.
Mr O had also said that the adding of the cleaner wasnt  a permanent or satisfactory repair. 
So I didnt think it was Miss Ss evidence  that the cleaning fluid caused the issue, but that the 
damage arose because  a faulty part wasnt replaced when it should have been.
Startline said that Mr O couldnt provide truly independent evidence,  unlike the report 
prepared by the independent engineer,  as he was a close family member. And while I 
agreed it was correct that Mr O was a close family member this didnt mean  that what he 
said should necessarily  be discounted.
Id seen that Mr O has experience in the motor trade  and runs his own company so I 
thought it was fair and reasonable to give weight to what he said about  the car. I also 
thought it was understandable that Miss S would seek the help and opinion of a relative 
who she knew had experience and knowledge  about cars rather than approaching an 
independent garage.
Miss S said when the car first went into limp mode  she had contacted her relative. Mr O 
said that by a process of manual tests his garage  found it was the Number 4 injector  that 
was faulty. Mr O said there were no diagnostic tests carried out so I havent seen any 
evidence of how that conclusion was reached. Mr O also said he told the dealership this 
part had needed to be replaced.
The dealership didnt replace the injector  and although there was an invoice for the work 
carried out Id not been  provided with any diagnostics. The dealership  said it couldnt find 
any fault with the car after the codes had been  cleared and the EGR valve  being cleaned  
and that the adding of the cleaning fluid were done as good practice.
Startline has queried why Miss S didnt object  to the injector not being changed in 
June 2018. Miss S said that the dealership said the cleaner would fix the issue and she 
believed them as she had no knowledge about  car engines.
The car then broke down  in August 2018. The dealership declined  to carry out repairs and 
Miss S complained to Startline. Startline arranged for an independent engineer to inspect 
the car and relied on their findings. But although an issue with injectors  was suspected  the 
report was inconclusive  as it clearly said further  investigations were required.  So the 
independent engineer had been  unable to do a detailed inspection  of the cars engine.
The independent engineer also said that it was possible that the condition may be related 
to repairs that have been  completed though they also said that issues  with injectors are 
Ref: DRN71953224normally related to in service wear and deterioration . However,  the independent engineer  
also said that the injectors  would need to be tested to confirm the cause of the defect with 
the injector units which I thought was reasonable to take as meaning that problems with 
injectors could also arise from faults and not only wear and tear.
The independent engineer later said that the injector  not being replaced  could lead to the 
melting of the piston and cylinder head.  They said they would expect the car to have 
been showing defects  such  as poor running and misfiring. Miss S has confirmed that 
after June the car was smoking, was chuggy and had pretty bad black smoke  on start 
up every  time.
Id seen that Mr O was able to examine the cars  engine in detail as the engine  was 
stripped at their garage. Mr O also said that he didnt  believe the issue  with the injector  was 
due to wear and tear as only one of the four was faulty. Mr O said the issue with the injector 
was present at the point  of sale due to the scale of damage subsequently caused to the 
engine and the fault code  repeatedly showing in both June  and August.
Looking at the evidence  provided about the condition of the cars engine  I preferred the 
evidence of Mr O as it was corroborated  in part by the independent engineer. I appreciated 
Mr O was not independent but I accepted he was highly experienced and his evidence  had 
been consistent. I also appreciated there was a lack of diagnostics  but I hadnt been 
provided with any diagnostics carried out by the dealership either.
So I was satisfied that the car had a faulty injector in June 2018 and that this wasnt  
repaired under  the warranty  at that time. I was also satisfied that the failure to repair  had 
led to the engine sustaining  further damage.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act goods  supplied must be of satisfactory  quality. When 
deciding what is of satisfactory quality  then things like the age, mileage and price paid for 
the car are taken  into account. Here,  the car was five years old with a mileage of 81,500 
miles so I thought  it would be reasonable  to expect it to have some wear and tear.
In June 208 Miss S had had the car for about  two months and driven  around  3,500 miles 
which was average  use. The dealership had raised  that it didnt think the car was looked 
after as there was body damage and wear on the tyres that suggested poor driving.  Id seen 
that Miss S also accepted  that she continued to use the car even though it was showing 
obvious signs that there was something  wrong with the engine.
However I didnt think I had enough  evidence to say that the issue  with the injector was due 
solely to the way the car was used though I thought that was relevant to the amount of 
damage sustained  to the engine by August. The issue with the injector  arose within a few 
weeks and I thought  a reasonable person  would  not have expected  a repair  to be required 
to that part within that timescale.  So I thought it was likely the fault with the injector was 
present at the point  of sale and the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Id seen that the dealership had had an opportunity  to fix the fault but didnt do so. I thought  
this made  it fair for Miss S to now reject the car and for the agreement to be cancelled. 
However, when looking  at a fair way to resolve  this matter I thought I did need to take into 
account the condition of the car and what repairs have been  currently undertaken.
I had only seen  a handwritten quote for repairs that totalled over £3,000.  I didnt know what  
work had been  carried  out or what had been  paid by Miss S as she hadnt been  able to 
Ref: DRN71953225provide any proof of payments. Miss S said she had paid £1,000  in cash to Mr O so far and 
that despite  the work the car was not yet working having failed its MOT due to emissions.
Id seen photos taken by the dealership of the car which has shown damage to the 
bodywork and tyres which were sustained after Miss S acquired the car. Miss S had 
also said she continued to drive the car despite the signs  of engine  malfunction.
So to settle Miss Ss complaint Im intended to ask Startline  to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss S.
Reimburse Miss S any payments made under the agreement  after August 
2018 together with interest from the date of payment  until the date of 
settlement. This is because the car hasnt been  useable since the day it 
broke down.
Reimburse Miss S her deposit of £735  together with interest applied from the 
date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse  information about this agreement  from her credit file.
However, I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for me to ask Startline to pay the costs of 
any repairs so far undertaken. This was because  Miss Ss use of the car, both by the way 
it had been driven  and also by continuing  to use it, had led to its current  condition which 
would have had a negative impact on the cars value. I also didnt have sufficient evidence 
about what had been repaired and what had been  paid for those repairs which I thought 
was important when  a relatives  garage  was involved in fixing  the car.
For the reasons  given  above I intended  to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S agreed with my provisional  view. Startline said it disagreed as it remained concerned 
there was no real independent  evidence produced by Miss S as to the condition  of the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. Ive explained  in my provisional decision above why I havent  
discounted the evidence of Mr O as to the condition of the car. Im still satisfied on the 
evidence that Ive seen that the fault was due to the lack of repairs  carried out on the faulty  
injector in June 2018 by the dealership. And that this faulty  injector had been present at the 
point of sale.
I also still consider that its fair I take into account Miss Ss use of the car and due to that Im 
not requiring  Startline  to reimburse any repair costs  she may have met having the car looked 
at and/or worked.
So for the reasons given above  Im upholding Miss Ss complaint  and Im still asking Startline 
to settle Miss Ss complaint in the way described above.
Ref: DRN71953226my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Ss complaint and Im asking  Startline Motor  
Finance Limited  to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss S.
Reimburse Miss S any payments made under the agreement  after 
August 2018 together with interest from the date of payment  until the date of 
settlement. This is because the car hasnt been  useable since the day it 
broke down.
Reimburse Miss S her deposit of £735  together with interest applied from the 
date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse  information about this agreement  from her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7195322