K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined her mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Assurant  include  its agents.
background
Miss D has mobile phone insurance  through her package bank account. Assurant is the 
insurer.
In April 2019 Miss D claimed  for her stolen  mobile  phone. She sent Assurant the receipt for 
the phone  and told it the phone had been bought in a store by her aunt and uncle who could 
get discount. She provided proof of blacklisting for the phone. When Assurant queried why 
the phone  contract  was in her uncles name Miss D said she was unemployed at the time.
Assurant declined the claim. It said Miss D hadnt provided proof of ownership of the phone, 
as required by the policy.
Miss D complained to us. She sent us further  information:
a letter  signed  by her aunt and uncle which said they had bought the phone for 
Miss D using their store card
her bank statements  for the relevant  period which showed she was making monthly  
payments to her uncle  with a reference  iPhone
a screenshot  of her iCloud account  showing a list of the devices shed linked to her 
account. The screen shot showed  the phones IMEI number.
Our investigator thought Assurant had unfairly  declined the claim. She recommended  
Assurant reconsider Miss Ds claim  without reference to the proof of ownership policy terms.
Assurant disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said Miss D had shown she was 
the user of the phone  but she still hadn't shown  proof of ownership as set out in the policy 
terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  whether Assurant fairly  and reasonably declined the 
claim due to lack of proof of ownership, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy covers mobile phones and gadgets owned by Miss D or family members (as 
defined by the policy)  who live at the same UK address as Miss D. 
The policy also says Assurant needs to know that the mobile phone  Miss D is claiming for is 
her phone and she may need to provide some form of proof  of ownership. The policy  says 
Assurant requires the make, model, memory size and IMEI number of the phone  and proof 
of ownership could include a till receipt  or documentation from the airtime provider. The 
policy also says if theres  no proof  of ownership Assurant may decline the claim.
Ref: DRN75316072Im satisfied that Miss D has provided enough evidence she not only used the phone (which 
Assurant accepts) but also owned the phone. I say this because:
the phone she claimed for was bought on the 26 January  2019.  Miss D
registered a phone on the policy two days later so I think its probable that was the 
same phone.
Miss Ds aunt and uncle have written  and both signed a letter to confirm they bought 
the phone  for Miss D.
Miss Ds bank statement shows that she made monthly payments to her uncle for an 
iPhone. So Im satisfied  that the ownership  of the phone  had passed to Miss D.
I understand why Assurant was concerned the IMEI number of the phone wasnt on 
the receipt. But the screenshot of Miss Ds iCloud  account  for her devices shows  the 
IMEI number of the phone which is the same IMEI number given on the backlisting 
letter from the phone contract provider and the same IMEI number of the phone  
Miss D registered on the policy.  
Im satisfied that on the overall evidence Miss D owned the phone that was covered by the 
policy and was stolen.  The fair and reasonable outcome  is for Assurant  to assess her claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to assess Miss Ds claim on the basis that she 
has provided proof of ownership and in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7531607