K822xcomplaint
Mr P complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) shouldnt have 
settled a claim against his motor insurance policy on a split liability basis.
background
Mr Ps car was in an accident and he thought that it was the other drivers fault. But LV 
settled the other drivers claim under his policy on a 50/50 (or split liability) basis and he 
only found out about it afterwards. He complained to LV. 
The investigator recommended that his complaint should be partly  upheld. She thought that 
LVs decision to settle the claim was reasonable and in line with his policy,  but that they 
should offer him compensation of £75 for not telling him earlier  about the other drivers 
claim. LV agreed to that but Mr P didnt agree and so his case  has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained to Mr P, we dont decide who was liable  for causing an 
accident, as thats  a matter for the courts. We only consider whether a business has acted 
in line with their policy  terms, and whether they reached their decision in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Mr Ps policy  says on page P19 section 4 that LV are entitled to ..have total control to 
conduct, defend and settle any claim.
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  LV to settle any claim  
against the policy as they see fit, whether Mr P agrees with it or not. Insurers  are entitled to 
make a commercial decision about  whether its reasonable  for them  to contest  the claim in 
court or better for them  to settle  it.
Mr P felt that the other driver was 100% to blame. Hed told LV that the other car hit his car 
as he was reversing  onto the road from his drive.  He said that the other  driver was speeding 
and that they admitted that it was their fault.  
Mr P didnt claim for damage to his car at first. He said hed wait to see if the other driver 
made a claim first. LV said theyd let him know if that happened. But they didnt, and the first 
Mr P knew  about it was several  months  later. LV said they settled his case  on a 50/50  basis 
as they couldnt prove  that the other driver  was speeding, or that they had admitted any fault.  
They thought that because Mr P was reversing he had a higher duty of care, and the 
damage to both cars was consistent  with how both drivers described the accident. There 
were no independent witnesses to support Mr Ps version of events, and no other 
independent evidence, such as CCTV. Given both drivers views of events, LV thought that 
there was an element  of fault on both parts, and that split liability was the most  likely 
outcome if it went to court and that theyd be unlikely to win the case outright. So they settled  
50/50. 
Ref: DRN78893182Mr P felt that LV shouldnt  have relied  on what hed told them  shortly  after the accident as 
he was confused then. He felt that theyd jumped to the conclusion that he reversed into 
the other car. He said that hed only realised later that, although  he had been reversing, 
he was stationary when the other car actually hit his car. He also doubted that the 
other drivers car had been damaged. He said that his initial report  to LV was confused 
and partly guesswork  and he didnt realise  that what he said then would really  matter. 
He felt that they should have given him a better chance to discuss his version  of 
events, and tell him the other  drivers version  so he could dispute  it. But LV thought  that 
Mr Ps account of the incident given shortly  after it happened  was likely to be more 
accurate than his later account. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the calls Mr P had with LV. One was when he first reported 
the incident to LV, and one was a day or so later. He told LV that the other driver was driving 
too fast, and that they admitted liability at the scene. But he did say that he was reversing  
onto the road when  the collision  happened, and he did mention damage to the other drivers 
car. 
 
I think that LV did listen to him and took his views into account. At the time of these calls, the 
other driver hadnt then made a claim under Mr Ps policy. But in both calls,  LV made it clear 
to Mr P that if the other driver did claim, they would consider Mr P to be at least  partly  at 
fault. They also explained their reasoning to him. They said that they couldnt prove that a 
driver was speeding and that Mr P had a duty of care as he was reversing. They  also 
explained their powers  under his policy to settle the claim even if he didnt agree with their 
decision. So I dont  think they were unreasonable.
 
Although Mr P said he felt confused, he didnt sound confused in the calls, and in both calls 
he gave a clear and consistent  explanation  of what happened. So I think that LV had enough 
information from him to decide about  liability. And even if they had waited longer and got 
more information  from him beforehand,  I dont think that it would have made any difference  
to their decision. It wasnt unreasonable of them to decide  that his first account  of events 
was more likely to be accurate than his account  some months  later. 
I can see that Mr P has found  the situation  frustrating, as he feels  that hes in the right and 
that LV have been too quick  to decide.  But insurers are entitled to make  commercial 
decisions about whether they go to court or not, and I think  that they did consider the whole 
matter properly before settling. So, based on the evidence they had, it wasnt unreasonable  
for them to do that. 
However because  LV didnt let Mr P know  that the other driver  had claimed, he didnt know 
to make a claim under his policy for his cars  damage. His car had remained driveable,  but 
he could have had it repaired earlier.  
I agree  that LV should compensate him for that inconvenience, and I think  that the amount  of 
£75, which  LV offered on the investigators  recommendation,  does reasonably reflect that 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I partly  uphold this complaint. 
I require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £75 in compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN78893183LV must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr P 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7889318