K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr K says that he was led to believe that the PPI was compulsory  or at the least  part of 
the credit  agreement,  due to the way the policy and credit  card documents were  
presented to him. He says that he wouldve refused the policy if he was given a choice. I 
cant know what was said at the time, and Mr K hasnt said much about why he felt this 
was the case.  So I have  to base my decision on the information  I do have.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ks credit card application. On this I can see that the PPI 
is presented as an optional product  nowhere  in the paperwork does it suggest that the 
policy is compulsory  or that an application will be looked at more favourably  by taking 
PPI. I can also see that Mr K has signed to select the policy. This is separate to his 
signature for taking  out the card.
So taking everything in to account,  I think that BoS made it clear  to Mr K that he didnt 
need to take out the policy,  and that he chose to do so. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr K  so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr Ks representatives have said that Mr K didnt need the policy  as he had generous 
sick pay through his employment. And that he wouldve received enhanced redundancy 
pay in the unlikely event he would lose his job. But the policy  couldve paid out on top of, 
and for longer than Mr K wouldve received full pay for. And in the unfortunate event of 
Mr K being  made redundant,  could still have met his repayments, leaving any money 
Mr K would receive for other  expenses. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it could have been  useful  for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
Ref: DRN78536022When the policy was sold, BoS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr K about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K and his representatives have said  but the points  raised 
dont change my decision,  and for the reasons  set out above,  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr K any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7853602