K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds  Bank PLC irresponsibly  increased his overdraft on a number of 
occasions to an unaffordable level.
background
Mr M has a current account with Lloyds. Over a few years, the overdraft  increased  from £50 
to over £3,000.  Although each increase was done  on Mr Ms request,  he argues it shouldnt  
have been so easy for him to increase his overdraft. He says it shouldve been  obvious to 
Lloyds that this wasnt affordable to him, and he shouldve been  offered help. Mr M says he 
only earnt £1,600  per month and eventually  had to take a consolidation  loan to repay  the 
overdraft. He says Lloyds didnt contact him to offer any assistance.
Mr M complained to Lloyds about  this. Lloyds didnt  agree it had done anything wrong. It said 
Mr M had applied for the overdraft increases himself on the internet with no interaction from 
its staff. It did offer £100  as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred  the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked  into 
things and didnt  think Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  the complaint. So its been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When approving  credit  such as an overdraft,  a business needs  to carry out checks  which are 
proportionate to things such as the amount being  borrowed  and how much repayments will 
be. Lloyds has told us it considers a customers credit information  and information  the 
customer inputs at the time of application when  considering a request for an increased  
overdraft. It then takes this and a number of other factors  including  payments coming into 
the account and balances  held with the bank.  I think these  checks are proportionate  in this 
situation. 
Lloyds is required to lend responsibly, and I havent  seen anything  to suggest it didnt in this 
situation. Whilst Mr M was clearly reliant on his overdraft, this isnt an uncommon way for 
some people to manage their accounts. Mr M was receiving  regular  payments  into his 
account, and wasnt exceeding his overdraft  limit. Each time the overdraft was increased,  it 
was at Mr Ms request,  with no interaction  from Lloyds staff.
Mr M has said Lloyds  didnt  contact  him to help him or offer any assistance when he started  
struggling with his overdraft. But I cant see Lloyds was ever made aware  of any difficulties 
that Mr M was having. And when Mr M did get in touch with Lloyds, it arranged a 
consolidation loan to make it easier for Mr M to clear the debt, avoid charges and manage 
his account. I dont think it needed to do anything further to help Mr M in this situation.
Lastly, Ive looked at the charges applied to Mr Ms overdraft. I cant  see that theyve been  
applied incorrectly or unfairly, so I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything further in this 
regard. Overall, I dont think Lloyds lent unfairly  to Mr M, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
Ref: DRN72691212my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7269121