K822xcomplaint
Mr D, who is represented by his partner Miss F, complains that RCI Financial Services 
Limited refused  to let him reject a car he had bought with hire purchase  finance.
background 
In November 2017 Mr D bought and ex-demonstrator diesel car which had done only 329 
miles. The main driver is Miss F. In May 2018  a warning light came  on and she was told by 
the garage the car didnt  need a service.  It came on again a few days later and the garage 
advised her to call out a motoring organisation and its mechanic diagnosed a blocked diesel 
particulate filter (DPF). She was advised  to have it manually cleared,  but as the garage  didnt 
have any availability it told her to drive the car at speed in a low gear and this would burn off 
the excess soot.
This didnt  work and engine warning light came on and the car went into limp mode.  By that 
time the car had done some 13,000 miles.  The garage said the fault was due to the driving  
style. Miss F made frequent contact with both the garage and the manufacturer and she was 
told that the DPF traps and stores soot.  When this reaches a specified level it needs to be 
reduced in order  to maintain the filter's  function. This is called as regeneration  and must  
occur periodically to ensure that the filter does not become  irreversibly  clogged.
Regeneration is passive and happens  without the driver  being  aware.  However, if the car is 
used for short  stop start journeys or regular  urban  use the temperature wont reach the level 
needed to burn off the soot.  The garage  explained that this could lead to the damage 
suffered by Mr Ds car and Miss Fs driving  style was the probable cause.  Mr D complained 
to RCI and it agreed with the garages view that the problem was the result  of driving style.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld. She said it was agreed  there  was a fault with the 
car and the issue was the cause of that fault. She noted that RCI had considered  Miss Fs 
driving style and had concluded it prevented active  regeneration from occurring. However, 
she noted there was no evidence  as to the cause of the problem. She too looked at the 
driving style and wasnt persuaded that it was the likely  cause.
The daily journey routine  usually consisted  of two journeys of around 20-25miles using 
motorway and main  roads and the average  mileage  was around 60 miles a day. She said 
the roads use were  busy which might  mean  that the vehicle was in traffic.  But she didnt 
think this was the same as stopping and starting,  as the engine temperature would be 
maintained and possibly increase. She didnt think there was enough  evidence  to show that 
driving style caused  the problems.
She explained that when  something  goes  wrong with a vehicle wed normally look to an 
independent experts report to tell us what was wrong and when and why the fault occurred. 
In this case that wasnt available and it was too late to commission  one into the state of the 
DPF at the point of supply.
She said the car was a demonstration  vehicle and would have been  driven  on short  journeys 
for the ten months  before  Mr D acquired  it. It had completed around  13,000  miles before the 
unit failed. So she said she was persuaded that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
including durability, as she didnt expect  this type of failure in a vehicle considering its age 
price and mileage.
Ref: DRN79224662She recommended RCI:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr D
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
refund  the finance payments made  since June 2018 for the loss of use
pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused due to the faulty goods
remove any adverse information  from Mr D's credit  file if applicable.
RCI didnt agree and said the investigator  had mentioned regeneration took place every 300 
miles and it wondered why she had concluded there had been a fault at the point of supply 
given the car had done 13,000 miles before it first occurred. However, it also disputed the 
300 mile figure and said the car could require  regeneration in two weeks if the journeys were 
short. It added that the car had been  satisfactory  when being  used  as a demonstrator.  
It pointed to advice  from a motoring organisation that drivers  regularly  give their diesel 
vehicles a good 30-50 minute  run at sustained speed on a motorway  or A road to help clear  
the filter. " It argued that being stuck in traffic wouldnt allow the unit to reach the required 
temperature to cause  regeneration. It also queried  why rejection was recommended  when 
Mr D had initially asked for a repair.
Mr D accepted the view subject to being  compensated  for the cost of tax and insurance for 
second car he had bought while the car under dispute had been off the road.  The 
investigator responded to RCI and said that it was reasonable to expect an almost new car 
to be durable 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN79224663Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I think it unreasonable to expect a virtually new car which cost almost £22,000 to suffer a 
significant fault after only 13,000 miles.  It would be reasonable  to expect the car to be fault 
free and if a problem  was to arise that a full examination to be undertaken. My sense from 
the correspondence with the garage  is that it quickly concluded  that the issue was driving 
style, but I havent  seen  any evidence as to show how that conclusion was reached.  
I accept that driving  style may contribute to DPF problems.  But it isnt the only cause and 
having noted the type of journey the car undertook I find it surprising to see how such a 
conclusion could be reached.  The average day saw the car doing 60 miles which  included  
motorway and A road travel. I find it hard to conclude that this wouldnt allow  regeneration  to 
take place.
I also note the letter  from the manufacturer which says: With regards  to the information 
provided to you when you purchased the vehicle, I would  certainly  have expected a 
dealership to qualify your driving style at the point of purchase Miss F says that neither 
she nor Mr D were  asked  about the intended  use of the car. Furthermore, they werent  given 
any advice on driving style. Considering the apparently high risk of DPF failure in this model 
I am surprised they werent told about  the use of the car and driving  style.  It was bought from 
an urban  garage  and they live in a large city so I fail to understand why no such advice was 
given.
A reasonable person  would expect a car to run without issue for more than 13,000 miles and 
to do so in the environment  in which Mr D and Miss F lived.  I dont consider it reasonable to 
blame them for the failure. I note that RCI says that the car will have undertaken thousands 
of regenerations before the fault became apparent  and that points to it being satisfactory at 
the point of sale. I disagree.  One of the key elements of a car is durability and it is 
reasonable to expect  it to run fault free for more than 13,000  miles. 
Therefore I find myself in agreement with the investigator. I would add that as Mr D had to 
acquire a cheap runabout  to replace  the problem car I believe he has incurred duplicate 
costs in tax and insurance. 
I direct  RCI to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr D
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
refund  the finance payments made  since June 2018 for the loss of use
pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused due to the faulty goods
remove any adverse information  from Mr D's credit  file if applicable
cover  the cost of tax and insurance  of the second car for the period from June 2018 
to the date of Mr Ds acceptance of this decision.
Ref: DRN79224664my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited  to 
compensate Mr D as set out above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7922466