K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit  LLC trading as Drafty lent to her irresponsibly. She says whilst she 
borrowed a significant  amount, because  of the high interest charged, she is unable to reduce 
the balance. She says she needs Drafty to freeze the interest so she can repay the loan. 
background
This complaint is about one running  credit account Drafty provided  to Miss M in June 2018. 
This was an arrangement where Miss M could withdraw up to an agreed credit  limit. She 
would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each month plus any 
accrued interest  or charges. 
The arrangement had an initial credit limit of £800. Miss M withdrew up to this amount  
almost straight away. She remained  at, or close to, the credit  limit for much of the remainder 
of the life of the account. Miss M made her last withdrawal on September 2018. 
Miss M continued to make payments into the account and, as she says,  she was unable to 
make inroads into what she owed. She was largely  only paying the interest charged on the 
amount she had borrowed. 
In May 2019  Miss M informed Drafty that she was in financial  difficulty and she would have 
problems making any repayments. From  what I can see Drafty, and Miss M, were  unable to 
agree a repayment plan. The account  was placed in default in June 2019 and I understand 
there is still an outstanding balance
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Draftys decision to approve  the 
initial lending was reasonable.  But he also said that Drafty shouldnt  have charged any 
interest on the account from May 2019  onwards as Miss M had informed it that she was in 
financial difficulty. 
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She thought that all of the lending was 
irresponsible and the amount of interest she paid overall was unfair.  
my findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible  lending  including  all 
of the relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Drafty needed  to take reasonable  steps to ensure  it didnt  lend 
irresponsibly. In practice,  this means it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make 
sure Miss M could  repay the account  in a sustainable manner. 
And Drafty needed  to monitor the account  on an ongoing basis to ensure that the use of it 
didnt make it reasonable to think that Miss M was in financial difficulty. The FCA guidance  is 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section  6.7.2R of the relevant guidance says:  A 
firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action were  there  
are signs  of actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
Applying this to the circumstances  of this particular  complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN78307472Ive seen a record  of the information Miss M provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss M said she had a monthly  income of around  £2,000  and she had regular 
monthly outgoings of £650. So it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to have assumed that 
the repayments if she drew down  the full amount, which  were  shown to be just short  of £90 a 
month at outset, wouldve seemed affordable for her.   
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Drafty was made  aware of any 
financial problems Miss M mightve  been  having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Miss Ms circumstances further.  So I think  it was reasonable for Drafty to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Drafty did to before the lending  
were proportionate. And I think  its decision to approve this lending was reasonable. 
To be clear, I think Drafty was adhering to the terms of the contract when  it applied  the 
interest up to the point  where Miss M informed it she was in financial difficulty.  And it wasnt 
wrong to do this. 
As our adjudicator said Miss M informed  Drafty  that she was in financial difficulty in May 
2019. Drafty continued  to add some interest  after this time and it agrees  that it shouldnt  
have done this. It has made an offer of compensation on this basis that any interest  applied  
after this time will be removed from the outstanding balance.  Having  looked  at the all of the 
correspondence about this complaint I agree that this is a reasonable way to resolve this 
issue. And so I agree  with the offer Drafty has made. 
putting things right  what Drafty  needs to do
If Miss M accepts this decision then Drafty should implement the offer it has made to remove 
any interest added  since  May 2019  from her account. 
Drafty should also try to agree  an affordable  repayment plan with Miss M. And I would 
remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Miss M positively and sympathetically. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Ms complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October  2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7830747