K821x#15complaint
Miss C and Mr T have complained about Hyperformance Ltds  handling  of their car 
insurance policy.
background
Miss C and Mr T took out a car insurance  policy in August  2017.  Hyperformance acted as 
broker and the policy was underwritten by another company.  Miss C was the policyholder 
and Mr T the named  driver. Mr T got a quote  from an online comparison website on 18 
August 2017.  Shortly after Mr T spoke  with Hyperformance and the policy  was incepted
On 4 December  2017, Mr T contacted Hyperformance about cancelling  the policy.  
Hyperformance said that on cancellation Miss C and Mr T would have to pay over £900, 
which included a £125 cancellation  fee. Mr T queried the cancellation  cost because he 
thought he was told there would be no charges for cancelling  the policy. The policy was 
cancelled on 11 December 2017.
Miss C and Mr T complained because they felt the cancellation costs werent made clear 
when they took out the policy.  But Hyperformance said the cancellation costs  were 
explained.
Miss C and Mr T brought  their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into 
the complaint.  He felt that Hyperformance hadnt dealt with Miss C and Mr T fairly. He 
recommended that Hyperformance should refund £50 of the £125 cancellation fee. He also 
said the premium should  be calculated on a pro-rata  basis  and any refund made accordingly. 
As Hyperformance didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I must decide if Hyperformance  have dealt with Miss C and Mr T in a fair and reasonable 
way.
£125 cancellation fee
I have listened  to the calls between Mr T and Hyperformance. During the sales call 
Hyperformace told Mr T that there was a fee of £50 if the policy  was cancelled within the first 
14 day cooling off period. They said the fee was £125 if the policy was cancelled  after the 
cooling off period. But just because he was told of the fee, it doesnt mean it was fair to 
charge the amount they did.
Our service expects cancellation charges  to be proportionate to the administrative task 
carried out and not attached to the premium. Thats because whether its a £200  policy  or a 
£2,000 policy the business is carrying out the same task. We typically  see insurers charge 
cancellation fees of between £50 and £75. Hyperformance charged Miss C and Mr T £125, 
which I think is quite high.
Ref: DRN76719162Hyperformance told us that they deal with high risk/non-standard customers where average 
premiums are £1,500.  They said the level of validation is greater in comparison to that of 
standard brokers. But Hyperformance  charge  an arrangement fee for setting up a new 
policy, so that fee should  take account  of the associated work involved when setting up a 
new policy, such as validation and other  checks.  I dont  think  its fair to have  an above 
average cancellation charge to take account  of the work thats  involved  in setting up a policy, 
especially where an arrangement fee is also charged for that very purpose. And a 
cancellation fee is a fee relating  to the administrative work involved in cancelling  a policy,  not 
setting it up. I also dont think its fair to charge a higher than average  cancellation fee 
because the value of the policy  is high.
For the above reasons, Im upholding this part of the complaint. I require Hyperformance to 
refund Miss C and Mr T £50. That will reduce the cancellation fee from £125 to £75, which is 
still at the higher end of what insurers typically charge for cancelling  a policy.  Simple  interest 
at 8% a year should also be added to the £50 refund from the date the cancellation fee was 
paid until the date the refund is made. 
premium refund
Generally, when a policyholder cancels their insurance policy mid-term (before the policy  
year comes  to its natural end),  their premium is calculated on a pro-rata  basis.  That way if 
the policyholder  is due a refund they will only be charged for the actual time they were  
insured for, and receive  a refund for the remaining  period  they werent covered. 
But the policy Miss C and Mr T said any refund would be made on what is known as short  
term rates rather than on a pro-rata  basis. With short-term rates a business charges a set 
percentage of the total premium depending on how long the customer  has used the policy  
for. For example, under Miss C and Mr Ts policy as they had insurance cover  for four 
months the policy said they would be charged 65% of the total annual  premium.
I have to look to see what  information was given  to Miss C and Mr T before they agreed to 
buy the policy. The information Hyperformance gave  should have been clear and sufficient 
to enable Miss C and Mr T to make  an informed decision.
During the sales call Mr T had with Hyperformance he was told the following: 
the Insurers charges  will be based  on the number of months on cover  on the 
annual premium and this insurer applies a set percentage  charge known as short  
period and it will be set out on your policy terms and conditions.
But I dont think that was clear enough to have helped Mr T make  an informed decision or 
give him a reasonable understanding about how a refund or outstanding premium would be 
calculated if the policy was cancelled. During the call Mr T was concerned  about  cancellation 
costs and he specifically  asked for more information.  He even asked what would happen in 
the event the policy  was cancelled after three  months. But the sales adviser didnt try to 
explain, instead she just said that policy details would be sent to him. I think the sales  
advisor should have given  Mr T the information he asked  for and could have  given an 
example from the cancellation table set out in the policy booklet.  Hyperformance  have 
accepted that they didnt explain short term rates adequately.
Ref: DRN76719163I think that had Mr T better understood the refund structure of the policy,  its less likely that 
he would  have bought it given any refund for a cancellation after 14 days  would have been 
less than a policy that gives pro-rata refunds.
Hyperformance did send  Miss C and Mr T policy documents with more  information,  but that 
was after the sale of the policy was completed. But that still left Miss C and Mr T at a 
disadvantage because  if they decided to then cancel the policy  within the 14 day cooling off 
period, they would have been penalised  by having  to pay a cancellation  fee of £50 to 
Hyperformance and an admin fee of £50 to the underwriter.
Im therefore  upholding this complaint and require Hyperformance  to recalculate Miss C and 
Mr Ts refund on a pro-rata basis rather than on a short  term rate basis. Any refund should 
be paid together  with simple interest  at a rate of 8% per year from the date of cancellation 
until the date the refund  is made.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Hyperformance Ltd to:
Refund Miss C and Mr T £50 to reduce the cancellation fee from £125 to £75. Simple  
interest at 8% a year should  also be added to the £50 refund from the date the 
cancellation fee was paid until the date the refund is made.1 
Recalculate Miss C and Mr Ts premium refund on a pro-rata basis  rather than on a 
short term rate basis. Any refund due should  be paid together  with simple interest at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date of cancellation until the date the refund is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019. 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If Hyperformance consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss C and Mr T how much they have taken off. They should also 
give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7671916