K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank  Plc failed to update  his address details. He also complains  
that he couldnt log a complaint over the phone, and that the bank  recorded  incorrect 
information on his credit file.
background
Mr P contacted TSB to ask about  historic overdraft charges on a closed account. TSB 
couldnt trace the account using  Mr Ps address, and said he would  need  to attend a branch 
to identify himself. 
Mr P said this wasnt correct because in a recent  complaint TSB assured him his address 
details had been updated. Hed also received correspondence at his correct address.
TSB managed to trace the account  using Mr Ps previous  address.  Mr P said this showed  
the bank hadnt updated his details as it shouldve  done.
Mr P also complained that when the account  was closed in 2014, the information TSB 
recorded on his credit file was incorrect.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  TSB had given a 
reasonable explanation  for why Mr Ps address hadnt been updated on its main  systems, so 
the adjudicator  didnt  consider it needed to do anything more.
The adjudicator was also satisfied that Mr P couldnt log a complaint by phone  because  he 
was no longer a TSB customer,  but that the bank had referred him to its online  complaints 
system. The adjudicator  considered this was reasonable.
The adjudicator also considered it likely that the information TSB had sent to the credit 
reference agencies  when Mr Ps account  was closed was correct.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr P has mentioned his overdraft, and considers this part of his complaint hasnt been 
looked at. I cant  see that Mr P complained  about his overdraft to TSB or to this service. But 
he may be referring to historic overdraft charges, which was the reason for his phone call 
that created  the complaint  in the first place.
If this is the case,  Mr P will need  to raise a separate complaint to TSB so that the bank has 
an opportunity to respond. If Mr P isnt happy  with the banks response  he may be able to 
refer the matter to this service for further  consideration.
Ref: DRN78163322For the purpose of this complaint, Im satisfied that the issues Im required to look at are:
1.Whether TSB correctly updated Mr Ps address details; 
2.Whether Mr P shouldve been able to log a complaint  by phone;  and
3.Whether or not the information TSB provided to the credit reference  agencies was 
correct.
Before his phone call to TSB, Mr P had made a previous complaint to the bank about  a 
different issue. He says the bank wrote to him at his correct address, and assured him that 
his details had been updated. So when he phoned the bank he was unhappy to learn  that it 
couldnt trace his account using his current address  details. TSB did manage to find the 
account using  his old address.
Im mindful, however, that Mr Ps enquiry was about an account  that was closed. And TSB 
has told us its complaints department had his correct address, for the purpose of dealing  
with his previous,  specific complaint.
I think thats reasonable, and I wouldnt expect the bank  to update its main systems in 
connection with a closed account.
So Im not persuaded that TSB was at fault when it couldnt trace  the closed account using 
Mr Ps current address.
Mr P was also unhappy that he couldnt raise a complaint over the phone,  and that he 
struggled to get a reply from TSB to his online complaint. I can appreciate  Mr Ps frustration 
when he thought his complaint wasnt being  dealt  with.
But Im mindful that Mr Ps complaint was in connection with an account that was closed. As 
such, I dont think  it was unreasonable for TSB not to be able to log Mr Ps complaint by 
phone.
I also think the fact the account was closed may have contributed to the time it took TSB to 
deal with the issues Mr P had raised. But overall, the delay by TSB in looking into Mr Ps 
complaint doesnt  change  my overall  conclusions  about the case.  This point doesnt 
persuade me that the complaint should  be upheld.
Mr P says the information TSB sent to the credit reference agencies in 2014 was wrong. But 
from what Ive seen  and been told, Im not persuaded thats the case.  The information 
recorded by one of the credit reference agencies is correct. And TSBs internal notes 
suggest the information it supplied to the agencies  was accurate. 
So on balance, I dont  think I can safely say that TSB is responsible for information that may 
have been recorded incorrectly with one of the credit  reference agencies. If Mr P considers 
there has been a mistake,  he may want to raise this directly with the agency in question.  I 
understand TSB has provided Mr P with details of how to do this.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told, I dont consider there are any reasonable 
grounds on which I can uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN78163323my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7816332