K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a death  claim that has been declined  under  her equine insurance  
policy with Allianz  Insurance Plc. 
background
Mrs H had a equine insurance policy for a pony which provided cover  for veterinary fees,  
death and disposal  due to injury or illness. Under the section of the policy  detailing  the cover 
for death from injury  or illness it stated:
If your horse is put to sleep, to claim under this policy, its condition  must have met the BEVA  
Guidelines for the Destruction of Horses.  These  state That  the insured horse sustains an 
injury or manifests an illness or disease  that is so severe as to warrant  immediate 
destruction to relieve incurable and excessive pain and that no other  options  of treatment are 
available to that horse at that time.
It was also detailed that BEVA considers that the decision  to advise an owner to destroy a 
horse on humane grounds  must  be the responsibility  of the attending veterinary surgeon,  
based on his or her assessment  of the clinical signs at the time of examination,  regardless of 
whether or not the horse is insured. The veterinary surgeons primary responsibility is to 
ensure the welfare of the horse. 
On 14 November 2018 Mrs Hs pony was admitted to an equine veterinary hospital because  
he had colic. Investigations done that day determined that part of the ponys jejunum and 
ileum were strangulated  and needed  to be removed. While the pony was anesthetised, the 
situation was discussed with Mrs H and it was decided  because of the costs and risk of 
short-term complications, the decision was taken  to euthanise him. 
A claim  was made for the cost of the veterinary treatment for the colic,  the euthanasia,  
disposal of the ponys remains and the death  benefit.  
Allianz contacted  the treating vet and asked whether he considered  the BEVA guidelines 
were or were not fulfilled. The vet confirmed that the guidelines were not met as there was a 
surgical procedure  for the condition the pony was suffering from. 
Allianz paid the claim in relation to the cost of the treatment and investigations for the colic. 
However, it declined  the claim for euthanasia, disposal and death benefit  because the BEVA  
guidelines were  not fulfilled. Mrs H complained. She felt Allianz was hiding behind  policy  
terms and she had made the difficult decision  to euthanise the pony in its best interest.
As part of its investigation  Allianz  contacted the vet that usually treated the pony. This was 
due to the concerns Mrs Hs had expressed about the effect of the surgical  recovery  
requirements would have had on the ponys existing medical conditions. The vet was non-
committal  it couldnt be known what, if any effect,  the surgical recovery would have had on 
the ponys existing conditions.  
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint. It said that whilst it was satisfied  Mrs H made the 
decision she had in the ponys best interests, it was satisfied the policy  terms and conditions  
hadnt been met for the claim to be considered valid. In relation to Mrs Hs concerns about 
Mrs H being unable to contact Allianz  at the time she made her decision, as it doesnt have a 
Ref: DRN7374721224-hour telephone service, it said all it would have  done had she been able to would have 
been to highlight the terms of the policy. 
Mrs H didnt accept Allianzs response  to her complaint and referred it to this service.  When 
doing so she explained that shed been told that the recovery  from the surgery  involved 
months of box rest followed by being  turned out onto grass. In addition, the ponys stomach 
would have had to have been pumped  every three  to six weeks  for life. However, the 
treatment for a pre-existing medical condition involved  the pony not being allowed to graze.  
Mrs H was concerned that the post-surgery care would have a detrimental effect on the 
pre-existing medical conditions. In these circumstances,  Mrs H has said that she decided  it 
was best for the pony to be euthanised. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mrs H 
didnt accept the investigators opinion and requested that the complaint be referred  to 
ombudsman. She said that shed discussed  the situation with the vet who had treated the 
pony before referral  to the veterinary hospital  and he had agreed the decision they made  
was in the best interest of the pony and the right decision had been made. No statement to 
this effect has been provided by the vet. Mrs H believed  Allianz  had not considered the 
welfare of the pony  or the fact that she had been  unable to speak to Allianz at the time she 
made the decision.
As Mrs Hs further comments didnt change the investigators conclusions,  the complaint  has 
been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the decision Mrs H made, she made  for the right reasons  what she believed 
was in the best interests of her pony. I can also appreciate it was a very difficult  decision to 
make. However, the insurance policy  doesnt provide cover for such  circumstances. It only 
covers the death  of a horse  or pony that is euthanised if there  is no effective treatment 
option for the medical condition. 
In this case there was a surgical option  that had a reasonable  chance of treating the medical 
condition successfully  between a 39% and 75% chance of a positive outcome according to 
the hospital vet. Whilst Mrs H wasnt convinced treating the colic was in the ponys best 
interests, thats not what the policy provides cover for. 
Whilst I know this will disappoint Mrs H, but her claim for the death and disposal of her pony 
is not one that is covered by the insurance policy she had. As such, I cant  ask Allianz to 
make any settlement for that part of the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept  or reject my decision before
17 August 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7374721