K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about the length of time it took HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) to 
provide her with a replacement bank card. She also complains of the service  she received 
when she tried to return calls to the complaints team.
background
Miss W contacted HSBC on the 19 April 2019  after fraudulent activity on her account had 
been identified.  She said HSBC told her they would stop her card and send a new one within  
5 working days.  She also said that HSBC  told her that she could call a number to get the 
card temporarily unblocked if she wanted  to take out some  cash from an ATM.
HSBCs said they told Miss W they needed to put a stop on the card and issue a new one, 
but would  temporarily  block it first so she could get some  cash out before the card was 
cancelled. They said Miss W didnt ring back to tell them that shed done that, so the 
temporary block remained in place until the 2 May when Miss W made  contact again  and a 
new card was sent out.  
HSBC said their courier, TNT, tried unsuccessfully to deliver the new card five times, but it 
was returned and destroyed. A new card was then ordered  on 13 May and delivered on the 
15 May. HSBC tried to call Miss W on 16 May to discuss matters  but werent  able to speak 
to her. And Miss W said she tried returning  the call but couldnt  get through.  
Miss W disputed HSBCs claim about the failed deliveries, and said the only notification  of 
non delivery was on the 14 May,  and she had emailed TNT who delivered the next day. She 
said the letter received with the bank card was in fact dated  the 3 May, which  she says puts 
into question that it had been returned and destroyed.  Miss W then found the card was 
blocked and spent a long time calling HSBC to get it unblocked, which  led to her complaint 
about the difficulties in contacting HSBCs complaints team. Miss W feels she received poor 
service as it was over a month before she received her new card, which  left her without 
access to her money and having to borrow from friends which  she had to repay with interest. 
She feels she has also lost earnings  because she was unable to operate  her business. 
I havent repeated  the investigators entire background summary  because it covers the 
issues and I want to avoid  repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because 
Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. Miss W was unhappy  with 
HSBCs response and so an investigator  from this service looked into the complaint but 
didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly.  As Miss W didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Miss W. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been achieved, which 
means taking into account both HSBCs  view and that of Miss W.
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
Ref: DRN70282032probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. Looking at the available evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. 
The telephone call of the 19 April shows HSBC did say that they would need to cancel 
Miss Ws card and send her a new one. They also told her to call them when she wanted to 
get cash out so they could unblock  the card after which  they would cancel it. But the length 
of time to have the new card delivered  wasnt discussed and nor was it mentioned that if 
Miss W didnt call about getting cash out of the ATM  a new card wouldnt be issued.
On the call of the 2 May Miss W did refer to the 19 April call saying shed been told a new 
card would be sent in around 5 days, but I agree with our investigator that Miss W has 
probably misunderstood what was said to her on the 19 April. Equally though HSBC could 
have made  their position clearer  about when a new card would be sent out to her. What 
HSBC did tell Miss W during the 2 May call was that a new card would  be sent and she 
could use her old PIN number.
Ive seen HSBCs evidence from TNT which shows when they tried to deliver, so Im 
satisfied HSBC havent done anything  wrong here. I cant say why failed delivery  attempt 
notices werent left prior to the one on the 14 May, but that wouldnt  be a failing of HSBC. 
Ive thought abut the letter  Miss W received with her new card dated the 3 May and I agree it 
points to the original  card not being returned  and destroyed. Of course  there may be another  
explanation that it was just the same  letter  reprinted,  or that HSBC  have incorrectly recorded 
that they destroyed the card when they didnt. Either way I dont think it alters the position. 
The new card was delivered on the 15 May and its unfortunate Miss W had difficulties using 
it in stores  and at the ATM.  I accept that must have been very frustrating and annoying  and 
meant a lot of wasted  time and effort for Miss W. But the block was ultimately removed on 
the 18 May and Miss W was able then to use her card. It seems clear that Miss W had 
difficulties in contacting the Fraud Detection  Complaints Team  and had to make numerous 
calls, often being told that the team didnt exist. So, I again agree with our investigator that 
HSBC made  it more difficult than it shouldve been  for Miss W to use her new card and to 
contact the complaints team.
Miss W has indicated  that she has lost earnings,  but there is no substantive  evidence  of this 
and in any event  I do not see that any losses she might have incurred have been caused by 
HSBC. The delay from the 19 April to the issue of the new card was caused by a 
misunderstanding on Miss Ws part of what had been said. She has accepted  that HSBC 
told her that the card would be temporarily blocked so that she could get cash, and then 
cancelled. I think it would  be reasonable to consider  that meant the new card would not be 
issued until that had occurred, especially when the HSBC advisor didnt actually  tell Miss W 
that a new card was being issued there and then. After that, when Miss W contacted  HSBC 
on the 2 May they tried to deliver the card, and the failure in doing so was not of their 
making. The second card HSBC issued was then delivered in a reasonable time.
So that leads  me to consider what an appropriate  level of compensation  ought  to be for the 
failings in service I have identifies. Ive thought  about the £50 compensation HSBC paid to 
Miss W and whilst I know she doesnt agree with it, I think it this is reasonable. It is in line 
with the awards  this service would make for distress and inconvenience in circumstances 
like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put matters right.
Ref: DRN70282033my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7028203