K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to 
a scam.
background
In 2018 Mr M fell victim to an investment scam  which started with a cold-call, evolved over 
several months and resulted in him sending four international transfers totalling £40,379.40 
(including charges)  to the fraudsters
After realising hed been  scammed, Mr M complained to the bank. Lloyds said it had found 
no errors in its handling  of Mr Ms payments  or claim. It said he authorised the payments,  it 
had no reason to prevent him doing  so and the recipient  bank had refused to return  any 
money when it notified them about  the scam. Lloyds did, however, offer to pay £150  
compensation to Mr M in recognition of any inconvenience caused by its failure  to deal 
promptly with his complaint. Mr M remained unhappy and asked  us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and all the money returned to Mr M 
with interest. Lloyds didnt  reply  to the investigator,  so the case  has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator,  for much  the same reasons. 
Its not disputed  that Mr M authorised all four international transfers.  So, although Mr M didnt 
intend the money to go to a fraudster,  under  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and 
the terms and conditions of her account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. However, taking  into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what  I consider to have  been good industry practice at the time, I think 
Lloyds should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).  This is particularly  
so given the increase in sophisticated  fraud  and scams in recent years, which  banks are 
generally more familiar  with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
As Ive already  said, Lloyds hasnt engaged with the investigators view of this complaint and 
I see no reason to depart from her conclusions or repeat them  at length  in this decision.  But, 
to summarise, I do think the first transfer was sufficiently out of character for Mr M such that 
Ref: DRN78740852it shouldve prompted  the bank to ask questions. The bank did not, in fact, even take the 
opportunity to discuss the transaction  with Mr M in the two months and many phone calls 
that took place  when  the transfer  got stuck in transit.  I see no reason why Mr M wouldnt 
have answered  the banks  questions  honestly  if hed been  questioned about the payment. 
This is a relatively common type of scam and I think,  from what Mr M tells us, that he already 
had some doubts about it and would have taken seriously any warnings  from his own bank, 
a trusted third party. So I think Lloyds could, relatively  easily,  have helped Mr M uncover the 
scam and prevented his losses.
Im also satisfied that it that first payment been queried and prevented then the subsequent, 
higher payments would  not have  been made.
I think Lloyds could,  and arguably, should  have done more in this case  to protect Mr M. So, I 
think it should refund all the money  he sent to the fraudsters, plus the £9.50 transfer charges 
he incurred on each  occasion. I also think interest should be added to these sums from the 
date they were paid away  to the date they are returned to Mr M. I have considered what  the 
investigator said about this, but dont think she quite got to grips with the source of the funds 
 she said some came from Mr Ms savings account  and some from his current account. But 
it seems to me that all the money came from either Mr Ms cash  savings or from investments 
he held elsewhere.  In the circumstances  I think the fairest  and most pragmatic way of 
calculating his losses would be to award 8% simple per year on each transaction.
As Ive already  said, Lloyds has offered Mr M £150  compensation  in recognition  of any 
inconvenience caused by its delay investigating  his complaint. I think  thats  fair in the 
circumstances and make no additional  award. Lloyds has suggested  this money  has already 
been paid but Mr M says he hasnt received it. Lloyds should check its records and either 
show Mr M when  the money  was paid or pay it if that hasnt already been done.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Lloyds Bank PLC to
Pay Mr M an amount equivalent  to the four disputed transactions plus the associated  
charges within  28 days  of receiving notification that he has accepted my final decision; 
plus
Pay Mr M 8% simple  interest per year on each of the four disputed transactions and the 
associated charges. calculated from the date the payment left Mr Ms account to the date 
settlement is made.
Pay £150 compensation to Mr M if this has not already been  paid.
*If Lloyds  considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr M A how much its taken  off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7874085