K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited mis-sold her and her late husband 
an equity release mortgage.
background
In 2004, Mr and Mrs E took out an equity release mortgage on the advice of Aviva (formerly 
Norwich Union). Mrs Es daughter on her behalf  considers it was unsuitable for Mrs E. She 
says that Mr E was terminally ill at the time of the application and Mrs E cant live alone  any 
more for health reasons. But the early repayment charge (ERC) that would apply if she sold 
her home is prohibitive. Mr E sadly passed away in 2009.
Mrs Es daughter considers the equity release mortgage was unsuitable for a number of 
reasons, including:
The funds could  have  been raised in a different and cheaper way  and Mr E could  have 
afforded to make  repayments.
The interest rate is too high.
When downsizing was discussed  there  was no mention of the £36,000 early repayment  
charge (ERC).
The financial adviser and solicitor were both provided by Aviva  and they didnt receive 
genuinely independent advice or warnings about  the risks of this type of mortgage.
The application fee of £540  wasnt mentioned   and other costs werent properly 
explained.
Our investigator didnt  think the mortgage was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs E. She clarified that 
Mrs E wouldnt have  to pay the early  repayment charge (ERC)  but the interest  had been  
legitimately applied and was payable on the sale of the property. 
Mrs Es daughter didnt  accept what the investigator  said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva gave Mr and Mrs E mortgage advice  before  lifetime mortgages were  regulated.  But it 
still ought to have given advice with reasonable care and skill  and followed the 
requirements of the Mortgage Code and the Safe Homes Income Plans (SHIPS) scheme.  It 
wasnt a case where  Aviva could just give Mr and Mrs E information. It was required to 
assess their needs and circumstances and recommend a product that was suitable  for them.
Aviva has produced a recommendation letter it sent to M and Mrs E in 2003.  I consider it is 
likely to reflect what was discussed with Aviva  and contains information  from a fact find 
signed by Mr and Mrs E. The letter is addressed to Mr and Mrs E  so I consider it likely it 
was sent to them and they had the opportunity to query its contents at that time.  
Ref: DRN78722402The recommendation letter sets out that Mr and Mrs E wanted to raise some  money  for a 
number of different  things.  One of the things was £10,000 for an emergency fund. The 
letter notes that Mr and Mrs E already had an emergency fund of £8,000. The letter  advises 
Mr and Mrs E that an emergency fund of £18,000 isnt necessary, but they insisted on going 
ahead. 
I have given this point some very careful thought   but I think  the warning from Aviva not to 
go ahead  is sufficient here. I note that there  were  other areas where  Mr and Mrs E reject 
advice from Aviva. So it suggests that they were capable and able to make their own 
decisions  they werent  passively  accepting  the advice they were given. And in this case, I 
think Aviva  gave a clear warning of the risks of Mr and Mrs E borrowing (partly) for this 
purpose.
I agree  that using  an equity release mortgage  is an expensive way to raise money. A 
reasonable adviser should explore whether there  were any other  ways  to raise the money 
instead. The recommendation letter says that Aviva considered  a standard mortgage but 
rules this out as Mr and Mrs E didnt have enough  disposable income. The information we 
have shows that Mr and Mrs E only had £50 left over after outgoings. So I consider it was 
reasonable to say that a standard  mortgage  was unaffordable.
The fact that the interest rate is fixed is set out in the fact find letter  and the interest  rate is 
set out in the loan documentation.  I appreciate that the interest rate of 7.29% seems  high 
compared to some of the rates available today. But it isnt out of line for interest  rates on this 
type of product from that time. As the interest  rate and how it operates have been set out 
clearly, I cant  say it has been applied unfairly. 
Similarly, the application costs and other costs were  set out in the recommendation letter 
and loan agreement. As was the ERC,  the circumstances  in which  it would be applied and a 
warning that it could be substantial. I consider that Aviva set these costs and charges out in 
a clear and fair way. The letter also states  that Mr and Mrs E didnt  want to downsize at that 
time.
I know Mrs Es daughter has worries about the suitability of the advice  for her mother  and 
father to take an equity  release mortgage   and I can understand that. But after carefully 
looking at the information we have  I dont consider that Aviva  acted unfairly  or unreasonably  
in recommending this mortgage to Mr and Mrs E. The mortgage was suitable  for Mr and Mrs 
Es stated  needs and circumstances and set out information about  the mortgage  ins a clear,  
fair and balanced  way.
While the adviser was employed by Aviva he is still held to the same  standard  as if an 
independent adviser gave  advice.  The solicitor was independent and acting for Mr and Mrs E 
 not Aviva.  And it appears to have been their decision which solicitor to choose. If Mrs Es 
daughter feels that they didnt receive proper advice, she can complain to the solicitor 
involved. 
I understand that Aviva has said that Mrs E meets its criteria for long term care. So it wont  
apply the ERC in this case.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN78722403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872240