K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about two instalment loans given to him by Valour Finance Limited 
(trading as Savvy). Mr S says he had a debt problem and it was irresponsible for Savvy  to 
lend to him.
background
Mr S took out two instalment  loans with Savvy between August 2015 and March  2016. The 
first loan was for £1,750 which Mr S was scheduled  to repay  over 12 monthly instalments of 
around £292. Mr S fully repaid this loan in March 2016.
Two days later, Mr S asked Savvy for another and was given a loan of £1,750  this loan 
was due to be repaid  in 24 monthly instalments of around  £138.  As I understand it, Mr S 
hasnt fully repaid  this loan and theres an outstanding balance. Mr S says he went into a 
debt management  plan in August 2016.
Mr S complained to Savvy about  both these loans,  and said he had debt and severe 
gambling problems. Mr S said that had Savvy carried out proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend then it would have found that he was unable  to afford the repayments.
Savvy didnt  agree that its checks  were  not proportionate. It said it carried  out sufficient 
checks and it didnt  find anything to suggest that Mr S was unable to afford  the loan 
repayments.
Unhappy with Savvys  response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service where one of 
adjudicators looked at his complaint. Our adjudicator thought that Savvys checks went far 
enough before it agreed to lend to Mr S and they didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has come to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
At the time of the loans, this type of borrowing was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules in CONC 5.2 at the time of the loans stated that lenders must  
consider the potential for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the information  of 
which the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit  agreement is to be made; and the 
ability of the customer  to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, to make  
repayments within a reasonable period. 
In short,  Savvy should carry  out a customer focused  check  to determine  whether Mr S could 
sustainably afford to make each  repayment when it fell due before agreeing to lend him any 
of the loans. 
Ref: DRN72371542what checks did Savvy carry out?
Savvy has provided  information to show that it carried  out a search of Mr S credit file before 
lending both loans  to Mr S. From  the information Ive seen,  at the time of both loans Mr S 
didnt have any defaults or county court judgements  (CCJs)  recorded  on his file.
Savvy also says it checked  Mr S income by requesting his payslips  and spoke to him over 
the phone  about his regular living expenses.  The records show that Mr S earned around 
£1,650 and his monthly  regular expenses were around £737.  Savvy  said from the 
information available on Mr S credit file, he was repaying around £501 in debts monthly.
Savvy carried out similar checks for the second  loan, but by this time Mr S income  had 
increased to £1,751 and his expenses had reduced to around  £720. Savvy  says that the 
credit file showed that Mr S was repaying around  £646 in debts.
were the checks sufficient/proportionate?
Mr S first loan was for £1,750 and he was tied in to repay this for about a year in 12 
instalments of around £292 per month. Im conscious of the fact that this was Mr S first loan 
with Savvy  and the maximum repayment amount was a relatively  low amount  compared to 
his income. On the other hand, Mr S had to repay  this loan over 12 months and so Savvy  
should have carried  out checks to satisfy  itself that Mr S could  sustainably  afford to meet  
each loan repayment over the entire  term.
Before Savvy approved this loan, it checked  Mr S employment and income   which  it 
confirmed through  requesting payslips, his normal  living costs  and the outstanding debts he 
had at the time. 
Savvy called Mr S to discuss his circumstances. Ive listened to the call and could hear that 
the adviser went through Mr S regular expenses in some detail - including  his rent, utilities,  
transport, food and any socialising  costs he would have had. Mr S told Savvy that he wanted 
the loan to consolidate his debts and at the time he lived with his parents  making a 
contribution towards  rent and utilities,  he also said his partner paid his insurance  premiums. 
The adviser also went through the loans that were active on Mr S credit  file and Mr S 
seemed to agree with the outstanding loans  at the time. 
A lender of high cost credit  is expected  to carry out proportionate checks, these are not 
prescribed checks but could take into account  things like the loan amount, the repayments, 
term of the loan and information about  the borrower the lender was aware of at the time.       
Given the checks Savvy carried out and the information it knew  about Mr S at the time, I 
cant see anything that should have prompted  it to carry out further  checks  or be concerned  
about Mr S ability  to repay the loan over the term. And so I think its checks  for this loan were 
proportionate.
Savvy carried out similar checks before lending the second loan. Again an adviser from 
Savvy spoke  to Mr S before approving  the loan. The adviser specifically asked Mr S the 
purpose of this loan and Mr S can be heard saying he wanted to consolidate  his debts. 
During the call, the adviser  probed  further asking Mr S which  debts in particular he was 
looking to consolidate  as she could see some smaller loans and other  credit  on his file. Mr S 
suggested that it was those  loans  and he also wanted to repay family members monies he 
owed.
Ref: DRN72371543The adviser asked  Mr S about some payday loans  on his credit file and wanted to know  why 
he needed those  loans. Mr S said he had repaid those loans and he took them  out because 
he had cash flow problems. The adviser  also confirmed his income and regular expenses.
Given that this loan was Mr S second loan with Savvy for a similar amount to the first, the 
monthly repayments were  lower  than the first loan which  meant it was an even lower portion 
of his stated monthly  income - over a longer term and Mr S repaid the first loan early, I think 
the checks Savvy carried out went far enough.
Mr S has said to this Service that he was gambling and had Savvy  looked  at his bank 
statements, it would have  seen this. But that wasnt something he told Savvy when he 
applied for the loans.  And I dont think it was something that Savvy  should have discovered  
from what I consider to be proportionate  checks.  While I understand Mr S strength of feeling 
on this, there  is no requirement  for a lender to request  bank statements before lending  this 
type of loan. It was entitled here to use the information provided by Mr S at the time and it 
seems it independently verified  some of this.
So I cant say that Savvy did something  wrong because  it didnt  request  bank  statements. It 
has done what I would have expected a responsible lender in these circumstances to do. It 
checked relevant  information and reacted to the information it saw on Mr S credit file by 
asking Mr S direct questions about  its concerns.  
Given that Mr S is now in a debt management plan and theres  an outstanding balance,  Id 
remind Savvy to treat Mr S positively  and sympathetically - having regards to its obligation to 
customers in financial difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against Valour 
Finance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7237154