K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Cynergy  Bank Limited increased the interest rate on their 
commercial loan. They also queried  the interest charged while the loan was in the 
associated current account and the increase in the interest rate on their overdraft. Mr and 
Mrs M want  Cynergy to refund the extra interest theyve had to pay because of the rate rise 
and to also pay them compensation. 
Cynergy Bank Limited was previously known as Bank of Cyprus UK Limited. For simplicity I 
will refer to it as Cynergy  in my decision. Mr M has dealt with this complaint throughout. 
background
In July 2008, Mr and Mrs M took out a commercial  loan with Cynergy. The loan was for the 
Japanese Yen equivalent of £805,000.  It was secured on one of Mr and Mrs Ms properties. 
The loan was one of several foreign currency loans given to either  Mr and Mrs M or 
companies that Mr M was a director of. 
Towards the end of 2008, Cynergy was having discussions with Mr M about all these loans. 
This was because the equivalent pounds Sterling (GBP) level of debt had increased  due to 
changes in exchange rates. Cynergy wanted Mr and Mrs M to convert the loan in their 
names back from yen to GBP. While this conversion was taking  place, Mr and Mrs Ms loan 
was placed into an agreed temporary  overdraft in the current account associated  with this 
account. 
A new agreement was then drawn up which Mr and Mrs M signed on 2 January 2009.This 
new loan was then used to repay the temporary overdraft. The new GBP agreement  was at 
a higher interest rate than the original  foreign  currency loan. 
In 2016 Cynergy  reviewed  the re-pricing  of some of its overdrafts back  in 2009.  This 
included the overdraft account  which ran alongside Mr and Mrs Ms loan. Following the 
review, the bank carried out a remediation programme. Cynergy wrote to Mr and Mrs M in 
April 2018. It said there  wasnt enough evidence to show theyd formally agreed to the 
repricing of the overdraft in 2009.  Cynergy offered  to refund additional interest  of £11,499.49 
plus 8% per year simple  interest. At the time this offer totalled £20,091.66. 
This letter prompted Mr M to contact  Cynergy  to complain  about the interest  rate charged on 
the overdraft while  the loan amount was in it. He was also unhappy about the rate increase 
on their loan when  it was converted into GBP. 
Cynergy didnt uphold this complaint. The bank said that, following the conversion, it wasnt  
able to offer the same interest rate as the original agreement. It pointed out that Mr and 
Mrs M accepted the new loans terms and conditions  back  in January 2009.  
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He brought the complaint to our service  where  it was looked 
into by one of our adjudicators. She noted that although  we cant usually look at events that 
happened more  than six years ago, it was only in the last three years that Mr and Mrs M 
would have realised  they had cause  to complain. This meant we could look at their 
complaint. Cynergy  also agreed we could look at it. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She thought that: the terms of the original loan 
meant Cynergy could  convert it to GBP;  Mr and Mrs M agreed to the terms and conditions of 
Ref: DRN71638182the new, converted loan; it was fair for the bank to charge  interest while the loan was 
positioned as a temporary overdraft in the current account; and, Cynergys refund offer 
following the 2009 overdraft rate increase was fair. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted part of the adjudicators  view. But Mr M said he didnt agree with her 
over the interest  rate rise on the loan.  He said he was given an ultimatum  either to accept 
the new rate or to take the loan elsewhere. Mr M wants the bank to honour the margin  set 
out in the original agreement. 
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with some of the adjudicators findings, this complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ms original agreement  signed  by them  in July 2008. The interest 
rate was set at a margin of 1.75% above the Japanese Yen three-month  LIBOR  (London 
Inter-Bank Offered Rate). As above, the loan amount was for the yen equivalent of 
£805,000. One of the terms of the agreement set out that if the GBP equivalent of the 
borrowing went above £925,750, Cynergy  could ask for additional security or require the 
loan to be converted into GBP. Due to the GBP weakening on the currency markets, the 
GBP equivalent  did exceed this amount later that year. 
Mr M says that the bank  never asked for any additional security  or asked for the existing  
security to be revalued. But Im satisfied  the terms and conditions  of the original loan allowed 
Cynergy to ask for additional  security or convert  it to GBP (my emphasis). It could choose 
what option to take.  So, the bank was entitled  to require this loan to be converted. 
Ive also looked  at the new loan agreement signed  by Mr and Mrs M in early January 2009.  
The interest rate on this agreement could be fixed at an indicative rate of 5.68%. 
Alternatively, it could  be a variable rate of 2.5% above a reference rate of the Sterling three-
month LIBOR or 3%, whichever was the higher. Mr and Mrs M chose the fixed  rate. 
I can see from the loan offer that the interest  rate on the original loan was variable. When 
Cynergy converted the loan to GBP it was under no obligation to offer the same 1.75% 
margin above the new reference  rate as it did above the Japanese Yen three-month LIBOR.  
As it was a variable rate, the bank could choose to vary it. This is what it did. 
Mr M says he was given an ultimatum to either accept  the new GBP loan or to take his 
business elsewhere. But Im satisfied that Cynergys terms and conditions allowed  the 
original loan to be converted, and as above,  the interest rate to be varied. 
The bank was in discussions with Mr M for a number of weeks  over the conversion  of this 
loan. Mr and Mrs M both accepted the terms and conditions of the new agreement. As 
Cynergy seems to have  pointed out to Mr M, if they werent happy with these terms and 
conditions, instead  of signing them, they were  free to look at alternative  sources  of finance. 
But they did sign the new agreement. 
Ref: DRN71638183In the circumstances here Im not satisfied that Cynergy did anything  wrong when it 
increased the interest rate on this loan facility. The bank is entitled to decide  the level of risk 
which its prepared to take on its commercial lending, and to price its products accordingly.
For completeness, I agree  with the adjudicators view that Cynergy was entitled  to charge 
interest while the loan was positioned as an overdraft in the current  account.  Im satisfied the 
loan wasnt repriced during 2009  and didnt fall within  the scope of the banks remediation 
project. 
I also agree  with the adjudicators view that Cynergys refund offer for the overdraft following 
its remediation programme is fair. Cynergy told our adjudicator that the refund offer is still 
available. Its for Mr and Mrs M to decide if they now wish to accept it in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7163818