K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained MBNA Limited  wont refund the costs of a bespoke wooden  gate which  
is unusable. He made  a claim to MBNA  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
In March 2017 Mr H paid for a bespoke wooden gate along with rollers  and track  for it to run 
along. This was to fit the front of his driveway. He also purchased  a pedestrian  gate from the 
same supplier to run alongside.  The gate was delivered the following  month.
Mr H was always planning to have his own builders complete  the installation  but found  this 
wasnt possible. The gate was delivered in three  parts  without any instructions how these 
would all fit together or on the track. After much discussion between Mr H and the supplier  
with the supplier deciding he didnt want to complete  the installation  himself  Mr H 
complained to MBNA.
MBNA didnt  think anything wrong  had happened. Mr H had ordered and received a gate 
according to the correct  measurements. They didnt think the fact the gate was in three  parts 
particularly mattered. As they didnt think the suppliers had broken the contract they didnt 
consider Mr H had a claim under section 75.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  all the evidence. This included Mr Hs detailed records of his 
contact with the supplier. He disputed the suppliers view that the gate was never going to 
work as it was being installed  on a 7% incline. He said things had never got that far as it was 
not obvious how to fit the panels together or how they should be secured to the track. He 
was concerned about the long-term  stability of the panels as they were separate.
Our investigator didnt  think there was any obligation on the supplier to say the gate would 
be supplied  in three panels.  Nor did any of the detailed information ever say it would only be 
provided in one panel. Overall she didnt think MBNA had done anything  wrong  in turning 
down Mr Hs claim.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 20 January 2020. I felt there  was enough  evidence  to 
show there had been  a breach of contract. I asked MBNA to put things right.
Mr H accepted my conclusion. MBNA didnt. After consulting with the supplier,  they believed  
Mr Hs complaint had arisen  after installation had failed because the gate was expected to 
operate on an incline.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen nothing which 
has made me reconsider my findings.  I repeat below most  of the points Ive made previously, 
taking into account  MBNAs response.
Ref: DRN71877712Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
for goods or services they paid to a supplier  when entering into an associated  credit 
agreement, like Mr Hs credit card agreement with MBNA. Specific conditions apply to those 
claims. MBNA need to consider whether there  was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
that led to Mr H making this purchase.
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding MBNAs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act. We certainly  consider the relevant  law and that includes  section  75. But we decide 
cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im 
deciding is whether MBNA did enough in considering Mr Hs complaint. And if they didnt, 
what else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask MBNA to put things right. 
was there  a misrepresentation or breach of contract  in the supply of goods?
Mr H brought a bespoke  wooden  gate that he was looking to have fitted to the entrance to 
his driveway. Theres detailed correspondence  between Mr H and the supplier from 
November 2016  onwards  about the measurements  and potential  materials to be used for 
this. As Mr H was having significant building work done at the same time,  he was pretty price 
sensitive and negotiated the costs of this gate to be provided without installation.
In fact according to the contract, at one level Mr H was supplied with exactly what  he paid 
for. He got a gate of 6 metres (in three panels) and track to run this along. Theres  no 
indication that there  was anything else significantly wrong with the gate in terms of material  
or condition  except it was in three  parts. Mr H could see no way of how the parts all fitted  
together for use as an electronic gate. This wasnt just Mr Hs opinion. His own builders  were  
unwilling to undertake the fitting either as it wasnt clear how this could be accomplished.
I checked to see whether  the supplier really  meant  for his bespoke  gates to be made  and 
installed by himself. I couldnt see anything in the terms and conditions on the website  
covering this. Although there are unsurprisingly longer-term guarantees if gates are installed 
by the supplier as well. I can also see videos of electronic  gates similar to the one Mr H 
envisaged on the website. However  I couldnt locate anything more  than generic  fitting  
instructions.
I do note our investigator also obtained some generic installation instructions from the 
supplier but I cant see this met Mr Hs needs.
Whilst I can see Mr H was surprised by the gate being provided in three  panels,  this doesnt 
seem to me to be the main issue. After  all, the gate Mr H was buying was 6 metres long. Id 
actually have been surprised if this had been  supplied in one piece. This may have caused  
some delivery and storage issues.
One of Mr Hs concerns  is about the stability of the gate once the three parts  are fitted 
together. I think I may have been  similarly concerned about one piece of wood.
However I am concerned at the lack of clear  fitting  instructions.  Ive also checked  with Mr H. 
He doesnt seem to have  been supplied with a support post.  On the videos  on the suppliers 
Ref: DRN71877713website, all wide sliding electronic gates have a post fitted along the back of the gate 
providing support  and generally positioned a third down from the top. 
I did consider whether  this situation  could  have been  simply remedied by a separate  pack   
which Mr H hadnt initially purchased  which included instructions and all that was needed 
to join sections to one another. I cant see this exists  on the suppliers website though so 
have dismissed this.
Ive also noted  Mr H went back and forth with the suppliers for a while  so if thered been a 
simple solution to this, I think this would have been  reached.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  means that goods bought must be of a satisfactory quality. 
This includes goods being serviceable, durable and of appropriate quality according to their 
age and other aspects.  They also need  to be fit for purpose. Mr H was being supplied  with a 
bespoke gate which had to be fitted  together but I can see nothing  was provided  which  
would allow him to get this done.  That suggests this gate wasnt  fit for purpose. So I think 
overall there  is a breach  of contract.
Theres been quite  a lot of comment about  Mr H insisting on having his gate installed on a 
slight slope. The supplier  has always stated  this would never work. I suspect this is one of 
the reasons they refused  to complete the installation  in 2018. This factor would  only be 
relevant to this case if the gates had been fitted and then didnt  operate  effectively or broke 
down. Ive got no evidence this has happened (although I note this has been  suspected  by 
other parties). Although  Im aware  of this issue, it hasnt played  a major part in my decision. I 
can see the supplier  has insisted this has happened but Im not sure that is the case at all.
So what  should  MBNA do to resolve this complaint?  Ive considered this aspect carefully. 
Partly because I dont  think its as simple as instructing MBNA  to get the gates fitted by a 
specialist. MBNA dont have a list of specialists they can immediately draw upon. And I think  
Mr H has already tried to have the gate fitted by third parties. This has proven unsuccessful. 
Of course the actual  supplier could do this but from what Ive seen  of the state  of the 
relationship between them and Mr H I suspect that wouldnt  work either.
That leaves me with the only option  that I think  is fair and reasonable. MBNA will need to 
refund Mr Hs costs in full. This will include what he paid for the gate, rollers and track and 
pedestrian gate  as this was designed to match the main  gate. I believe there  are three  
payments showing  to the same supplier on Mr Hs credit card statement. This includes the 
deposit of £960, the main costs of £1,909.12  and then a later £405  paid in July 2017. In 
return MBNA will effectively own the gates. They will need to decide  what action theyre 
going to take to remove these from Mr Hs premises and confirm  this with him.
As far as I can tell from Mr Hs statements  he doesnt pay his credit card bill in full every 
month. Neither party provided evidence to the contrary during the period of the provisional 
decision. MBNA will need to rework what Mr H owes. This must take into account  any 
interest these transactions would have attracted as those will need to be removed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  MBNA  Limited  to:
Ref: DRN71877714Credit Mr Hs account with the amounts he paid to the wooden  gate supplier for the 
gates and associated machinery;
Confirm  to Mr H the arrangements theyll put in place to remove these from his 
premises; and
Rework Mr Hs credit card account to remove interest these transactions attracted.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7187771