K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr J says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr J didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application  form Mr J completed  at the time. I 
can see that PPI featured in a section  called optional  features. And to get the PPI  
called payment protection plan on the form - Mr J had to put a tick in the Yes  box 
and I see there  is a mark in the Yes box. The box appears to have been crossed 
rather than ticked although  the mark is not fully clear, which  could denote that 
consent was not given. But Ive noted  had Mr J not wanted the cover he had merely  
to leave the boxes blank, which he did with the other optional  features offered by the 
card. So this seems  most likely to be Mr J giving consent to the optional feature that 
was PPI. And Mr J has signed the application  form which  suggests his agreement 
with the contents  of the form.
And Ive also considered  the statements that Ive seen from as early  as January 
2000. This shows that Mr J was clearly being  charged for Cardholder protection  
plan. So if he hadnt meant to give his consent  I think this would have put him on 
notice that he was paying for something he hadnt meant to agree to and I think it 
more likely that hed have raised this with the business  many years before he 
eventually chose to do. So, on balance, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr J didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out
Lloyds recommended the policy  to Mr J, so, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.
And Mr J seems  to have had a need  for the cover. I say this despite Mr J telling us he 
had very generous sick pay benefits.  They were so generous we asked for some 
evidence to support  his testimony. Sadly, at the point  of writing we have received no 
such evidence. Consequently I am unable  to place the weight on what  Mr J told us 
that he may have otherwise wished me to. This policy couldve covered 10% of his 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months,  in the event that Mr J was too ill to work for an 
extended period  or if he lost his job. So as these benefits would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr J may have been entitled to, in the event of a sickness 
claim, and would have protected  him against the risk of being made redundant, I 
think Mr J couldve  found this cover  useful.
Ref: DRN73463672Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr J any extra  interest Mr J paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr J the difference  between 
what Mr J owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr J 8%* simple interest if Mr J 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr J any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7346367