K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Metro Bank plc wont refund a series of debit card payments that he 
says he neither made nor authorised. All were  made  to an online gambling site; they total 
£810. 
background
Mr N explained that he had separated from his partner in March 2018. They remained in 
touch, however, so that he could help with her daughter, who had a medical condition.  
On one occasion in December 2018 Mr N had been with his former partner and her daughter  
for a hospital  appointment. After  the appointment they did some shopping and had a meal.  
As it was late by then,  he stayed at his former partners  address. He says that, while he was 
asleep, his former partner  took his card from his wallet and used it to make  a number of 
payments to an online gambling business.  
The following  day Mr N used a cash machine and noticed that his account balance  was 
much lower  than he was expecting. Following a confrontation, Mr N says that his former  
partner admitted that she had taken and used his card. 
Mr N reported the matter to the police, but the Crown Prosecution Service decided not to 
pursue it. Mr N also contacted the gambling business involved. That business told him that 
the account funded  by his card payments  hadnt been in the same  name  as the card;  
because of confidentiality issues, however, it wouldnt tell him the name of the account  
holder. It also said that it wasnt  responsible for the misuse of Mr Ns card.
Mr N contacted Metro Bank.  He thought  it should  have stopped the payments, because of 
their unusual nature.  Metro Bank  said that it wouldnt refund the payments because he knew  
the person who made them; they should  be treated not as fraud but as theft. It was, the bank 
said, a civil matter. 
Mr N referred  the case to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. He 
accepted that Mr Ns former partner had used his card without  his knowledge or authority. 
He explained  that in those  circumstances Metro Bank couldnt properly hold Mr N liable for 
the payments  unless  he had been  grossly  negligent  in his care of the card.  He didnt think 
that Mr N had been grossly negligent.  He recommended that Metro  Bank  refund the disputed  
payments, together with interest  at 8% a year. 
Mr N accepted the investigators recommendations, but Metro Bank didnt and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Ive summarised above what Mr N says happened when the disputed payments were  made.  
The investigator accepted that he was telling the truth and, in particular, that he didnt know  
his card was being used,  hadnt agreed  to it and hadnt given the card to his former partner. I 
think that was a reasonable conclusion for the investigator to reach and I agree  with it. I note 
Ref: DRN74339422that Mr N reported the use of the card promptly and that the gambling firm confirmed that it 
had been used to make payments on an account that wasnt his. 
I note too that Mr N was in contact with the police, both about  the payments  and other items 
belonging to him which it appears his former  partner  was refusing to return.  It appears that 
no criminal  proceedings  were pursued. The Crown Prosecutions Services decision not to 
take things further  would have been  based  on a number of factors,  not simply whether there 
was evidence that Mr Ns card had been  used without his consent. But the fact that Mr N not 
only reported the matter to the police but remained in contact about this and other matters 
lends weight to his account of what happened.
Im satisfied therefore that Mr N didnt  consent  to the payments. A bank cant  generally hold 
its customer liable for payments that they didnt make or authorise.  But it may be able to do 
so if it can show that the customer  acted  with gross negligence  that is, if they were 
particularly careless  in, for example,  the security of their payment card. Given the 
circumstances outlined  by Mr N  which Ive indicated I accept as being a true account  of 
events  I dont  believe  that Mr Ns actions were grossly negligent. He simply left his card in 
his wallet  as he usually  would when he went to sleep. 
Metro Bank  has suggested  that Mr N should be liable for the transactions  because they were 
made by someone  known  to him. Whilst its true that he knows  who was responsible for the 
payments, it doesnt follow that he authorised them or should  be liable for them. 
The bank has also said that it shouldnt be obliged to make  a refund because  this is a civil 
matter. Of course, this service  only deals with civil disputes (as distinct from criminal  cases) 
between financial businesses and complainants. So what I understand from Metro  Banks  
argument here is that this is a matter that Mr N should resolve with his former partner  since  
shes the person  who had the benefit  of the money  spent on his card. 
I can see the banks  point here. Arguably  it wouldnt be fair for it to bear the loss here if Mr N 
might be able to recover the money from a third party  in this case, his former partner. I 
have however seen  from Mr Ns exchanges  with the police that his relationship with his 
former partner became  strained  and, it seems, at times violent; he had difficulty  recovering 
his possessions from her. In the circumstances, I dont believe I can fairly say theres any 
realistic prospect of recovery  from her. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont believe Mr N authorised the payments, and nor do I 
think they were the result  of gross negligence on his part. But I dont believe either in this 
case that the fact he knows  the perpetrator is a reason to depart from the usual position in 
such circumstances  namely, that he shouldnt be liable  for the payments.      
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Metro  Bank  plc should refund the 
disputed payments together with interest at 8% a year simple  from the date on which  they 
debited Mr Ns account until the date of the refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Ref: DRN74339423Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433942