K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs S, about A J Bell Management Limiteds (AJ 
Bell) handling of a series  of transfers to new accounts Mrs S had set up and about poor 
customer service.  
background 
In December 2017, Mrs S opened three  accounts with AJ Bell and made a series of requests 
to transfer investments from third party providers into her new accounts.  Mr S, on behalf of 
Mrs S, has set out a series of concerns about AJ Bell, the main issues being:
1.delays in processing transfers both into Mrs Ss accounts and transfers  out;
2.poor customer service and information  sharing  about the transfers and timings;
3.incorrect online valuations for Mrs Ss ISA;
4.inaccurate and contradictory  information  about in specie transfers from Mrs S to her 
sons account;
5.failure to act with integrity and follow a fair complaints process.
AJ Bell accepts some errors were made,  namely:
1.Mrs S had to re-sign the forms for discharge  paperwork  relating to the SIPP  transfer;
2.it failed to inform  Mrs S sooner that some of Mrs Ss late husbands assets could not 
be transferred to her dealing account and provided some incorrect  information about 
the transfer;
3.it updated the online valuation for Mrs Ss ISA incorrectly and delayed in issuing  the 
ISA transfer discharge paperwork;
4.it gave conflicting  information about  transferring  assets from Mrs Ss account  to her 
sons account;
5.there were delays in responding  to correspondence sent on behalf of Mrs S.
AJ Bell has apologised to Mrs S and made an initial  offer of £300 in compensation.  
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She agreed that AJ Bell had made some 
mistakes but didnt think there was any quantifiable, financial loss to Mrs S as a result.  But 
our investigator did think Mrs S had been  put to inconvenience as a result of the errors and 
had lost faith in AJ Bell. She thought £300  was fair compensation.
Mr S, acting on behalf of Mrs S, disagrees with the view. He says that the emotional impact 
of the errors is not without financial consequences  to his family. 
AJ Bell now also accepts there was a further  delay transferring an asset to Mrs Ss ISA. The 
asset was eventually sold and credited to the ISA in December 2018. AJ Bell regrets the 
time it took to identify  and then correct the matter. AJ Bell points out that Mrs S hasnt 
Ref: DRN70568502suffered any financial  loss as a result of the delay. Thats because the asset  was sold at a 
higher price  in December  than had it been  sold earlier.  AJ Bell has offered a further £200 
compensation in respect of this delay,  taking the total offer to £500.
Both parties  have provided comments about  this increased offer and the matter has come to 
me for a final decision.
Mr S has also raised separate concerns about  a joint account he opened, that complaint  has 
been dealt with under a separate decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised concerns about  the delays in transferring  the investments from other 
providers to AJ Bell. He thinks  that Mrs S has lost out as a result of the delays. So Ive 
looked at the timeline for the transfers  to the SIPP, ISA and GIA. Ive taken into account that 
a substantial number  of investments were being  transferred from different providers, so it is 
fair to say the transfers as a whole were complex.
SIPP 
Mrs S opened her SIPP in December  2017 and AJ Bell received an in specie transfer 
request the same  month.  Mrs S returned forms for completion by AJ Bell in January 2018, 
which had to be sent onto the third party provider. Ive seen that AJ Bell failed to send these 
forms on, which led to a second set of forms being sent to Mrs S in February. I agree there  
was a delay here and AJ Bell has apologised  for it. However, I consider it unlikely that the 
transfer would have happened any faster if this delay had not happened. That is because 
the third party  provider was still processing an inherited benefits transfer at the time.
Once AJ Bell confirmed  it could accept the assets,  the majority of cash funds were received 
within a couple  of weeks and the in specie assets  settled  a week  after. AJ Bell then chased  
the third party  provider for closure  information  during  April and May. The third party  provider 
sent a further  cash transfer in May of £1,385.41, but I havent seen anything to show  that this 
delay was due to AJ Bell.
ISA
Mrs S opened her ISA in December 2017 and later that month  AJ Bell received a request to 
transfer an ISA from a third party provider into the new ISA. A request was also made to 
transfer Mrs Ss late husbands ISA. Ive seen that the third party provider needed  further 
information from Mrs S and AJ Bell and the provider were in contact about which  assets 
could be accepted. In February 2018,  the third party notified AJ Bell that more  stocks had 
been added  to Mrs Ss ISA and AJ Bell replied confirming it could accept all but three assets.  
These were  subsequently sold. The third party sent some further valuations in March, which 
were accepted and the transfer  completed  in April 2018. Ive seen that cash payments were 
credited throughout this period in January, February  and March.
Its industry standard that cash  is sent to the receiving provider following the transfer and 
settlement of all other assets. So here,  I wouldnt  have expected AJ Bell to have chased the 
Ref: DRN70568503cash payments any earlier. And AJ Bell notified Mrs S about the amount of cash transferred 
in a transfer completion letter.
AJ Bell accepts there  was a delay  with an asset,  the proceeds of which  credited to the ISA in 
December 2018  in the sum of £18,316.84. The asset was converted  by the third party  but AJ 
Bell couldnt  then accept it. AJ Bell asked for the conversion to be reversed, but this couldnt 
be done and there  were  ongoing difficulties with the transfer. As a result of some  misleading 
information given  by the third party, AJ Bell believed the asset had been  sold, which was 
incorrect. The issue was identified in November  and the asset was eventually  sold and 
credited to the ISA in December 2018. I think AJ Bell should have identified  that the asset 
hadnt been sold earlier. But, I cant say there was a financial  loss here as the asset  was 
sold at a higher  price  in December than had it been sold earlier in the year.
AJ Bell also accepts there  was a delay in issuing the ISA transfer  discharge  paperwork. 
Looking at the remaining timeline  of events, I dont think there were any other inordinate 
delays by AJ Bell in transferring  the rest of the ISA. AJ Bell had to wait for and then agree 
multiple valuations  from the third party  before  transfers could  be made and the assets they 
were unable to accept had to be sold by the third party, which didnt happen  until March 
2018. Save for the delay  identified with the asset above, the rest of the transfer completed 
around a month later, which wasnt unreasonable.
Ive also seen Mr Ss concern that AJ Bell queried the relationship  between  Mrs S and her 
late husband. Whilst I agree this request  was unnecessary,  I cannot see that it caused  any 
additional delay.  
GIA account
Mrs S opened a dealing account  in December 2017 and AJ Bell received forms requesting  a 
transfer from Mrs S and the late Mr Ss GIAs, held with a third party  provider. Further 
information was required from Mrs S and this was provided at the end of January 2018.
AJ Bell was corresponding with the third party provider about the transfer  of a series  of 
assets in February  and March. And Ive taken into account that the cash  element of an in 
specie transfer  of £34,939.58 wasnt sent until the in specie assets had been received. As 
Ive explained,  this is in line with industry  practice.
Ive seen that there was delay with a particular asset, which was converted  by the third party 
provider. Eventually  the asset was sold in May 2018. It appears  there  was some confusion 
around the transfer of this asset and AJ Bell has apologised for providing incorrect  
information about the transfer. Ive seen that other cash transfers were received throughout 
this period in March  and April.
Whilst there was some  delay with one particular asset, I havent seen anything  that shows  
Mrs S was disadvantaged  by this. Its not been  suggested that Mrs S lost out on any 
particular trade or that a different decision would have been made, so I cant say theres 
been any quantifiable financial loss here. But I do think  AJ Bell couldve kept Mrs S, through 
Mr S, better informed about  the process and AJ Bell accept they should have told Mr S 
sooner that they couldnt accept this asset.
online valuation
Ref: DRN70568504AJ Bell accepts that an error was made  in the online valuation of Mrs Ss ISA. This was due 
to human error. Incorrect figures were input after multiple valuations were received from the 
third party provider. I agree that this error should  not have been made. Ive seen that Mrs Ss 
representative identified  the mistake and pushed for rectification. It is clear there was 
confusion about  what had happened. But I havent  seen anything  to show that this error 
caused Mrs S financial loss. AJ Bell apologised for this mistake  and the correct  figures were 
shown within  three weeks, which doesnt  appear  unreasonable, given a prompt  request was 
made for a new valuation  from the third party  provider and this period fell over the Easter 
break.
transfer to sons account  and information provision
AJ Bell accepts that misleading  information  was given about transferring assets in specie 
from Mrs Ss ISA and dealing account  into her sons dealing  account. This led to around a 
three week delay in the transfer being made.  I cant see that this delay caused Mrs S any 
financial loss as the assets  remained invested  and it hasnt been  suggested  that these 
assets were going  to be sold.  But I do accept  that the delay caused inconvenience  and some  
upset. It has been  suggested  that this delay could affect future tax liability, but I cant  say 
thats likely  given the short delay and I cant fairly say what  Mrs Ss position  will be over the 
next few years. So I dont think it is fair and reasonable to ask AJ Bell to do anything.  
Mr S also complains about the delay in response  from AJ Bell once he raised  a complaint on 
behalf of Mrs S. AJ Bell has acknowledged there have been  times when it has taken longer 
to respond, for which it has apologised.
putting things  right
I appreciate that the transfers took longer than Mrs S had anticipated and I agree that 
AJ Bell could have  handled some things better.  Ive seen that it has apologised to Mrs Ss 
representative. 
Its clear that Mrs Ss representative has spent a lot of time dealing  with these issues.  Ive 
noted the comments about his investment confidence being affected,  as a result  of which  he 
decided to stagger  some  trades, made on behalf  of Mrs S, in the period March to June 2018.  
Mr S says this meant the cost of executing the trades was higher. But Ive had to take into 
account that this is Mrs Ss complaint. It may be that with the benefit of hindsight,  it would 
have been more favourable to make the trades  earlier but I dont  think  I can fairly  say when 
those trades  might otherwise have been made  and I dont think its fair or reasonable to say 
that AJ Bell is responsible  for when the trades  were  placed. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not satisfied that Mrs S has suffered any quantifiable,  
financial loss. But, I do accept that the delays  (both  with aspects of the transfers  and in 
responding to Mr S), error in recording the correct  online figures  and the provision of 
confused information, likely caused  Mrs S distress and understandable frustration. I dont 
doubt that this was a difficult time for Mrs Ss family, but as Ive explained to Mr S, I can only 
consider the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mrs S. 
Ive thought carefully about this matter  and taking everything into account, I consider  that 
AJ Bells increased offer of £500 is a fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN70568505my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I consider that AJ Bell Management Limiteds offer of £500  is fair and 
reasonable. I direct that this is paid to Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7056850