K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that his Virgin Money plc credit card was declined  when he tried to use it to 
buy a car.
background
Mr D tried to use his credit card to pay for a car for just over £4,200 on 15 February 2019. 
He says the card was declined and that he had to use another credit card to complete the 
purchase. But that meant he had to pay interest.  Mr D says he spoke to Virgin to complain 
about what happened but the call ended and he didnt receive a call back.  He would like 
compensation for the embarrassment he was caused and for Virgin to allow a 0% balance  
transfer to put him back in the position he should  have  been in.
Virgin says its not made a mistake and acted in line with the account terms and conditions. It 
says it doesnt  guarantee that every  transaction will be successful.
Mr D brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Virgin  had acted fairly and in 
line with the account terms and conditions  where there were fraud concerns. The adjudicator 
thought Mr D could  have called Virgin and asked  it to unblock the account. The adjudicator 
did think that Virgin could  have called Mr D back when the call became disconnected. But 
thought it wouldnt  be fair for Virgin to reveal whats its fraud  policy was or further details of 
why it blocked  Mr Ds account.
Mr D says he wouldnt have called Virgin from the car dealership  and says just because the 
terms and conditions say a transaction can be declined doesnt mean its right to penalise 
him. He says some of his complaint points need an industry wide investigation and questions 
if Virgin uses a 0% purchase offer to attract customers then declines the use of a card.  Mr D 
has asked that his complaint is looked at by an ombudsman  and says he shouldnt  be in a 
worse position by whats happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr D will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr D would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied that Virgin explains that it cant  guarantee 
that Mr D is able to use the card for all transactions. So I dont think  Virgin  made a mistake  in 
this case by applying  security measures in blocking the card where it had fraud concerns. I 
also agree  with the adjudicator that most if not all credit and debit card agreements will have 
similar conditions.  And I appreciate that fraud  measures can cause customers  
inconvenience but are in place to protect  customers and the business from fraud.
I appreciate that Mr D says he didnt  want to call Virgin from the dealership. But I think if he 
had, then it likely that any security blocks could have been removed and he could then have 
used his card. I also think that Mr D could have considered calling  Virgin before he 
attempted the transaction  to tell it where he was using his card and for how much as this 
was a relatively expensive purchase. I think that may have prevented  the security blocks 
from being applied.
I can see that Mr D has said that some of his points may call for a wider investigation and 
that Virgin may be using  its 0% offer to attract customers. I make  it clear that Ive not seen 
Ref: DRN77844642any evidence of Virgin misleading its customers and for the reasons Ive explained I think  the 
security blocks  could  have been removed if Mr D had called Virgin. And I also make clear  to 
Mr D that we are not the regulator of Virgin and so I couldnt fairly order the investigation  he 
calls for.
I dont think its clear  why the call between Mr D and Virgin  ended. But I think that Virgin  
should have called Mr D back in those circumstances. I dont think  that mistake  justifies  any 
compensation.
Overall Im satisfied that Virgin hasnt  made  a mistake  in respect of Mr Ds main area of 
complaint. For that reason I cant fairly order Virgin to pay Mr D any compensation or order  it 
to allow  a 0% balance transfer as Mr D would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784464