K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) declined  her travel 
insurance claim. My references to ERV include  its agents.
background
Mr G had single trip travel  insurance for herself and her teenage daughter. The insurer  is 
ERV.
Mrs G was driving through Europe  with her daughter and sister. They  stopped in a rest area 
for a few hours  sleep. While Mrs Gs sister went to the toilet, Mrs G stayed in the car with 
her daughter  who was asleep in the back. Mrs Gs handbag was placed between  the front 
two seats. She went to the car boot to get food and drink. She said when she opened the car 
boot she couldnt  see inside the car so momentarily couldnt see her handbag. Her sister 
returned and they ate standing by the car. A few minutes later,  when Mrs G went  to the car 
front seat to get her mobile phone she realised  her handbag had been stolen. She called the 
police who came and took a statement  and forensic  samples.
Mrs Gs bag contained personal documents and items, bank and/or credit cards, money and 
passports. She claimed on her travel  insurance and her house insurance.  She says she 
detailed to ERV and the home insurer what she had claimed on each policy.
ERV declined the claim. It referred  to the following policy exclusions to decline  the claim 
saying the policy didnt cover:
4. any loss, theft of, or damage  to personal  baggage  left in an unattended motor  
vehicle if:
- they have not been locked out of sight in a secure  baggage area;
- no forcible and violent  means have been  use by an unauthorised person to gain 
entry into the vehicle  and no evidence of such entry is available;
5. loss, theft of, or damage to, valuables, personal money, or passport:
- from a motor vehicle left unattended  at any time
The policy defined unattended as:
When you cannot see and/or are not close enough to your property, or vehicle, to 
prevent unauthorised interference with, or theft of, your property  or vehicle.
ERV also referred to the leading court case on unattended property, Starfire Diamond Rings  
Ltd v Angel. In the case the Court of Appeal held that for a vehicle to be attended there  must  
be someone able to keep it under observation, that is, in a position to observe any attempt to 
interfere with it, and who is so placed  as to have a reasonable prospect of preventing  any 
unauthorised interference with it.
ERV said as there was no one to keep Mrs Gs handbag under observation  or be in a 
position to prevent theft there was no policy cover.
ERV also referred to the following policy  terms: 
Ref: DRN75013132Personal Money & Passport 
What is covered: We will pay you up to £300  for Basic cover and £500 for 
Comprehensive cover, if during a trip, the Personal Money you are carrying  on your 
person or you have  left in a safety  deposit box is lost, stolen, damaged  or destroyed, 
subject to the following conditions and exclusions
ERV declined the claim for passport  costs and money as it said the passports and money 
werent on Mrs Gs person.
Mrs G complained to us. She said she was very close by the car all the time and it wasnt fair 
for ERV to say her car and contents were unattended. She also said her home insurance 
had paid for the passport  costs and she wasnt claiming for the stolen money  under her 
travel policy.
Ultimately our investigator thought ERV hadnt fairly  declined the claim  as Mrs Gs car and 
handbag werent unattended  at the time of the theft.  ERV should pay the claim in line with 
the rest of the policy terms plus interest.
ERV disagreed. In summary it said: it didnt dispute Mrs G was attending her car, but that 
didnt matter as she wasnt  attending  her handbag in the car; if Mrs G could see and been 
close enough to her handbag she could have prevented the theft or identified the thieves; it 
disputed that Mrs G had given the true facts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.
I have to decide if ERV fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont think  it did. Ill 
explain why.
ERVs recently told us it doesnt think Mrs G gave  the true facts about the theft. ERVs given 
no reason or evidence  to support why it thinks what Mrs G says is untrue. I find Mrs Gs 
account of what  happened plausible and persuasive and my decision is based on the facts  
shes given.
In ERVs final response letter to Mrs G it relied  on the above exclusions to decline the claim.  
Those exclusions say there  is no cover  for stolen  items, money, passport left in an 
unattended motor vehicle  or from a motor  vehicle left unattended. ERV has accepted that 
Mrs Gs car wasnt unattended when  her handbag was stolen.  So I think it cant  fairly and 
reasonably rely on the exclusions it told Mrs G it was relying  on. Those exclusions dont 
apply because the car was attended.
However, there may be other  policy exclusions that ERV would try to rely on. For the 
avoidance of doubt Ive considered whether Mrs Gs handbag was unattended.
Looking at the policy definition of unattended, Mrs G has said she couldnt  see her handbag 
at the time of theft.  But the definition is an and/or definition and I think  Mrs G was close  
enough to her handbag,  which was in her attended car, to prevent unauthorised interference 
with, or theft of, the handbag. 
Ref: DRN75013133Mrs G was very close to the car when the theft occurred and although she by the car boot 
the Starfire Diamond  Rings  Ltd v Angel test isnt concerned just with the policyholder's actual 
observation of the property. Its a theoretical test to determine whether Mrs G was close 
enough to be able to keep  her handbag  under observation and have a reasonable prospect 
of preventing a theft. I think Mrs G being  so close to the car should have reasonably  had a 
deterrent effect and made a theft unlikely, and Mrs G could reasonably understand that was 
so. 
ERV says as the theft occurred Mrs G couldnt  have  been in a position  to intervene. But 
whether or not she was successful in preventing  a theft isnt the legal, or fair and reasonable, 
position. Mrs G had to be in a position  to have a reasonable prospect to intervene,  and 
I think she was.
The policy term ERV referred to in its final response  letter about cover  for passport and 
money only refers to there being cover for money if its carried  on your person . Mrs G said 
shes successfully claimed for the stolen money  and passport costs on her home insurance. 
So I dont  need  to decide if ERV could fairly  decline the claim for those items and I make no 
finding on that issue. 
ERV must pay Mrs Gs claim  in line with the remaining policy  terms and limits, with interest 
as Ive detailed  below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Europaische  Reiseversicherung  AG to pay Mrs Gs claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits. Interest* must  be added  at 8% simple a year from the date of the 
claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Europaische Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7501313