K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent them becoming 
victims of a scam in which  they lost over £7,000.
For ease of reading and as hes done  most of the correspondence on this complaint, Ill 
mostly only refer to Mr B.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  In 2018  Mr B was unfortunately the victim of a scam. 
Mrs B had been in email  contact with a tradesman  who had been doing  work  for them.  An 
email invoice was submitted as part of the same ongoing email thread. Following this, Mrs B 
shared the details of where the payment ought to be sent with Mr B who sent payment 
through his online banking  from their joint account  with HSBC.
HSBC held the payment for some  additional  checks. This resulted in a phone  call between 
Mr B and one of HSBCs agents.  As a result  of the conversation the payment was 
processed. Unfortunately, the tradesmans emails had been  hacked and the genuine 
account details  had been replaced with those of a scammer. Because of this, Mr Bs 
payment went to the scammer, rather than to the tradesman as hed intended. 
The following  day the scam was discovered,  and Mr B reported  this to HSBC.  Ultimately 
HSBC declined to reimburse him. They said theyd confirmed the payment with him and that 
they wouldnt accept  liability. They  also said that theyd informed the beneficiary bank what 
had happened, but they wouldnt do more. 
Mr B complained, he thinks HSBCs agent failed  to give suitable warnings during their phone  
call. He says had he been made aware of the possibility of scams of this nature,  he would 
have taken additional steps  to protect  himself.  HSBC maintained their position and the 
matter was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. She 
felt that as Mr B said during the call that hed verbally confirmed the payment details with the 
beneficiary, that HSBC  had done  enough.  Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman  
to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  and for essentially the same  reasons. I know  
this will be really disappointing  for Mr B, so Ill explain  why. 
I accept that Mr B has been the victim  of a cruel scam. And I can understand how upsetting  
this is, especially given  the amount of money involved. But, it would only be fair for me to tell 
HSBC to reimburse the loss if I felt HSBC are responsible for a failing that caused  it. 
HSBC themselves picked  up on the payment instruction to send over £7,000  from Mr and 
Mrs Bs joint account as unusual and out of character for that account. So, they referred  it for 
Ref: DRN71375532additional checks. This is what Id expect HSBC to do when presented  with an unusual  or 
out of character payment instruction. 
But the core issue  of this complaint is whether HSBC did enough during the phone call to 
reassure themselves that it was a genuine payment  and that Mr B wasnt  at risk of financial 
harm from fraud. 
The agent  confirms  the amount, beneficiary name  and that the payment is going  to a 
business account. Mr B agrees that this is correct and that it is a genuine payment. 
During the call the agent asks Mr B how he received the payment details from the 
beneficiary. I appreciate  the agent repeated this question three times. Its unclear why the 
question was repeated, but Im satisfied Mr B answered clearly each time. At the time Mr B 
said the payment  had been received in a text message. HSBC have pointed out that he later 
said that this was in an email  from the tradesman rather  than a text. Im satisfied this is a 
genuine oversight on Mr Bs behalf.  I dont think he was being dishonest, its likely he 
understood it at the time to be a text (to his wife) and later found out it was an email. I dont 
think Mr B has acted  in bad faith and whether the information was shared via text or email, it 
doesnt impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
Once Mr B had confirmed  the payment details had been received via text the agent said: 
Did you verbally confirm sir, the details with your intended  beneficiary? Mr B replies  yes. 
Mr B has since said that he didnt at the time have  an awareness of the importance  of the 
question he was being asked. He says it was a leading question  and the fact that the 
previous question had been  asked three times,  meant he confirmed this largely due to the 
language barrier he perceived  between  himself and the agent. He says if hed had an 
understanding of why that question was being asked and if hed been told about  common 
scams, he wouldnt have  answered as he did and the payment wouldnt have been sent. 
I can sympathise with Mr Bs position here and I know he now has greater knowledge  than 
he did at the time. But I cant  ignore the fact that he told HSBC  that he had verbally 
confirmed the bank details with his intended beneficiary. In these  circumstances I can 
understand why HSBC  didnt then go one to warn  him about email or text interception 
scams. From what Mr B had just told them, that risk had been mitigated against  as he said 
hed verbally confirmed the account  details. 
And whilst I can understand  why Mr B thinks HSBC ought to have gone further and provided 
him with education  at the time  I dont think that HSBC not doing  so makes them liable for 
the loss. The primary purpose of the call was to confirm it was a genuine payment instruction 
and to warn Mr B if the circumstances of the payment being instructed  match  those of known 
scams. Im satisfied HSBC  did this. 
I know Mr B thinks that HSBC would have  been able to see the name on the beneficiary  
account and that by allowing the payment to be sent, they failed to look out for his best 
interests. But for the reasons  Ive explained  above,  even  if HSBC could see that information, 
I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. HSBC asked Mr B if 
hed verbally confirmed the details of the account  he was paying  with the intended 
beneficiary and he said he had. Its not uncommon  for a business to have a different trading 
name compared to the name  that might be displayed on their bank account.  
 
More recently, a system called confirmation of payee (COP) has been introduced.  This 
allows someone sending  a payment to check that the name on the beneficiary account 
Ref: DRN71375533matches what they are expecting. But as this wasnt in place at the time, I cant  fairly criticise 
HSBC for not having that system in place  sooner.  Particularly as that system is reliant on co-
operation between banks and isnt something  that any one bank  could have introduced on 
their own.  
Mr B originally instructed  the payment on 29 August 2018. He reported  the problem with his 
payment the following  day shortly  before  11.00am.  HSBC  reported this to the beneficiary  
bank at 12.14pm. Given the time Ive quoted for Mr Bs call to HSBC would have been the 
start of that call, I think  HSBC acted within a reasonable time to report  this to the beneficiary 
bank.
Ultimately the beneficiary bank reported  that some of Mr Bs funds remained in their 
customers account. They asked  HSBC to provide an indemnity for the remaining funds.  
HSBC have explained that it isnt their policy to do so. UK Finances  APP Best Practice 
guide doesnt require or recommend that a sending  bank must provide the receiving bank 
with an indemnity. So whilst I again sympathise with the position this leaves Mr B in, I cant  
fairly require  HSBC to raise an indemnity  with the receiving bank. HSBC tried to recover  
Mr Bs funds  for him  and did what I would  expect them to have done  but they have then 
been asked by the beneficiary bank to provide  legal  liability for something  theyre  not 
required to. I dont  think its fair to hold HSBC responsible in these  circumstances.
Overall, HSBC correctly identified that this payment presented a risk to Mr and Mrs B and 
held it whilst they contacted them. There was a risk that this payment was being made as a 
result of an invoice interception scam,  which sadly proved to be the case.  But by asking Mr B 
if hed verbally confirmed the details with his intended beneficiary, HSBC mitigated that risk. I 
think it was fair for HSBC to rely on the answer Mr B gave to their question during the call. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 May 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137553