K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. For consistency, Ill refer mainly  to Halifax.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2002 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch and the PPI was part of a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP was a product that typically  included PPI, critical 
illness cover  and life insurance. Consumers who wanted to buy these types of protection  
could take some elements of insurance  and not others, to suit their individual circumstances.
This complaint is only about the PPI elements, which was sold to Mr and Mrs B on a 70/30%  
basis. Subject to its exclusions and limitations,  it offered to repay up to £631 a month 
towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  balance  in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  the 
PPI elements cost around £34 a month. 
Mr and Mrs B were  employed in engineering by the same company and Ive considered their 
likely circumstances  with great care. It looks like they would have both been entitled to some 
sick pay, but its not entirely clear how much. We were also told they enjoyed  death in 
service protection,  but Ive been sent no supporting evidence of this. I explain more  about 
this later.
As regards  health,  we were told both were free of significant medical problems at the point of 
sale. The mortgage  account closed in 2003. Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  
lengthy and substantial representations  on their behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I 
have read and considered them all carefully.  In summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative 
says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN72312392The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN72312393GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also 
published a number of codes, which I consider to be indicative of the standards  of good 
industry practice expected from intermediaries,  like Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
Ref: DRN72312394suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  We no longer have access  to all 
the paperwork from the sale but given  when it was this isnt either  unusual  or, in my view,  
unreasonable. Businesses  dont need to keep such documents indefinitely.  
However, I do know quite about these sales as Ive seen many similar ones from that time 
period. I start with the observation that Mr and Mrs B were offered a menu  of different 
options and they chose  to insure themselves jointly. They did so not just to protect losing 
their jobs or being unable  to work,  they chose to take out life cover and critical illness 
protection too. To me, this demonstrates  they wanted to protect their financial affairs as 
much as possible at that point in time.  And the way they set up the PPI  with Mr B being  
covered for 70% - shows, in my view, that they had given a lot of thought into what they 
wanted to buy.
My experience is that they also would have  had all the TMPP elements set out on a form 
which Ive seen before.  This would have demonstrated which  elements theyd accepted and 
the costs involved, and they would have needed  to also authorise  the monthly premium to 
leave their bank account. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its much  more  likely Mr and Mrs B knew the PPI 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
This was an advised  sale which means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs B and the adviser  had some limited  information about  Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances. But there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps  to establish 
whether they each  would  have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet their needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether they had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN72312395-They both met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either were not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for any 
benefits / savings  they say they would have been able to access.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   Mr B was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely their finances would be put under  strain if he was not working  even 
allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits  he was entitled to and Mrs Bs 
income. But as Ive observed, they specifically chose to split the cover  in favour of Mr 
Bs salary so it would  have helped manage  the consequences if Mr B was unable to 
work. Mrs B was covered for 30%.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim and there most likely werent pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  their ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
either of them  was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for or how much it was. This 
would have most likely been set out on the documentation they were given and which  Ive 
seen in many similar  situations.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the 
policy. Overall,  having  considered the parties representations about  what happened,  while  
Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave 
Mr and Mrs B all of the information they needed  about the policy to make  an informed 
decision about whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN72312396information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs 
B. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event. Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I 
should presume  this to be the case given the significant failings  identified  above. Ive 
considered the representations of both sides  and the evidence relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  that 
either was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they may have  made  that decision based on incomplete  
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN72312397As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. As 
Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were probably  given about the cost 
and benefit was clear  enough. But the information about other aspects of the policy,  such  as 
the limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that they knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if either 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
However, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Both appear to have been  
eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could 
have proved valuable to them should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  
seen any evidence to suggest they would have been caught by any of the significant  
exclusions  theres  no verifiable evidence they had any pre-existing medical conditions, as 
defined by the policy, and there both in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
B might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their respective jobs and any similar  gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they 
might reasonably become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about what  
they would  have done. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN72312398In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should either of them be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time.
Ive considered their other circumstances too. But the death in service benefit quoted on 
their behalf   of which no evidence  was sent  covered  a different eventuality and so 
wouldnt have been in conflict with having  PPI. I was provided  with no evidence of savings 
although I make a reasonable assumption  that Mr and Mrs B, given their age, may well have 
had some. Again however, I dont consider having some savings necessarily conflicts  with 
having insurance.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN72312399That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its much  more likely than not that they would still 
have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about 
the policy they were  buying. All the evidence points to them wanting to protect their 
mortgage. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7231239