K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
after a total loss claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants this offer increased. 
background
Admiral offered Mr S £12,600 in settlement for the total loss of his car. But Mr S was 
unhappy with this valuation. He said hed bought  the car from an approved  dealership. He 
said a car with a like for like specification  from a similar dealership  would cost £15,000.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She checked a 
motor trade  guide  for the pre-loss valuation  of Mr Ss car. And she thought  Admirals  offer 
was fair and reasonable. She considered the advertised prices for similar cars, but she didnt 
think this showed  that a similar car would cost £15,000.
Mr S replied  that he couldnt replace  his car with a like one from an approved dealer for 
Admirals offer.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral said it offered Mr S a settlement for the total loss value of his car based upon  its 
market valuation. I can see that is defined in his policy booklet as the cost of replacing  the 
car with a similar one based on market prices  at the time.  
This services approach  to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations  for cars but seek  
to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand cars. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Admiral said it checked  the valuation of Mr Ss car in three trade  guides  taking into account 
its make, model, age, condition and mileage at the time of loss. It then offered Mr S the 
highest of these valuations for a car from a reputable dealer. Ive checked these and I can 
see that Admirals offer was higher than the average  of the trade  guide  valuations. So I think 
it was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S provided evidence of similar  cars being advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence-
based likely  selling prices.  
Mr S said he wanted a higher price as he wanted the peace of mind  of buying a replacement 
from a manufacturer  approved dealer. I can understand this, but I dont think  this is provided 
by his policy. 
Ref: DRN77700652I think Admirals  offer was made according  to the policy  terms and conditions  and our 
approach which aims  to be fair to the parties involved. I think its valuations took into account 
the cars  details. I think Admiral very reasonably offered Mr S the highest of the valuations  it 
found rather than their average. So I think Admirals offer is fair and reasonable and I dont 
require it to increase  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7770065