K822xcomplaint
Ms P complains  about the poor service she received from Nationwide  Building Society when 
she tried to open a new account. 
background 
Ms P applied online to open an account with Nationwide.  The building  society  sent a letter 
asking for her signature to confirm shed read and agreed to the terms and conditions. But 
she hadnt received  them.  So when she didnt get a response to her letter she visited her 
branch to request a copy.  After queueing for some  time Ms P was told the terms wouldve 
been sent with the letter.  Ms P said they werent.  
Ms P explained the letter said she had to sign before the account could be opened. So she 
needed to see a copy of the latest  terms before doing so. While Ms P was waiting  she 
searched online using  her mobile phone but couldnt  find the terms for her particular 
account. Ms P was then told shed had the option to print the terms while applying online. 
But Ms P said she hadnt been able to. And that was irrelevant. The terms and conditions  
should be available at any time.  
Eventually Ms P was given a copy of a booklet  called current  accounts which she said 
wasnt the actual  terms of her account. And when  she tried to talk to customer services she 
found them  equally as unhelpful. So Ms P would like Nationwide  to acknowledge its poor 
customer service.  Shes not been  able to open the new account  or take advantage  of its 
better interest rate. So shed like about £700 compensation for the many hours shes wasted 
on the matter and for her trouble and upset and lost interest.
Nationwide said it hadnt received Ms Ps letter. But its branch staff had been correct when 
they said Ms P was given the option  to download  or print the terms when she applied  online. 
And the only information it had available was the booklet Ms P had been given in branch. 
After further investigation Nationwide said the device Ms P had used wasnt  compatible with 
completing an online application. And that was why shed received the letter to sign the 
terms and conditions and finish  the process. Nationwide  apologised for the time Ms P had 
waited in branch  and on the telephone. And it paid her £50 compensation.
 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Nationwides  response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Ms P was unhappy  with the information  
shed been given. She understood  Ms P didnt want to sign and accept something that 
wasnt available to her at the time of signing.  But she felt Nationwide  had provided  the terms 
and conditions of Ms Ps account when it gave  her the current account  booklet. 
The details and documents for the specific account  were also available  online. And Ms P 
had been told during  two different calls that the terms in the booklet were  the same  as shed 
have accepted online. 
Our investigator could  see thered been some confusion. Nationwide had initially given Ms P 
information about not selecting a product during a different application. And itd increased  its 
offer of compensation from £50 to £100  for any trouble or upset caused. She felt this was a 
fair and reasonable amount. 
Ref: DRN77363422Ms P didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Shed never been told 
to look at the account specific information in the general terms and conditions  booklet. And 
she was given confusing  information in the branch about having signed online.  If Nationwide 
had acknowledged  its mistakes in the first place a lot of stress  couldve been avoided. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Ms P. She wanted to switch  her 
account to Nationwide and take advantage  of better  interest rates.  But the building  society  
wouldnt let her complete  the application  unless shed signed a letter  to accept the terms and 
conditions. And Nationwide says it couldnt send a copy of the online terms as theyre only 
available as part of that process. So Ive looked  carefully at whether Nationwide has done  
anything wrong. And if so what  it needs to do to put things right.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter from Nationwide  to Ms P confirming  her new account  had been  
approved. The letter says she needs to sign and date this letter  and return  it in branch or by 
post to complete the application.  The letter also confirms that by signing it Ms P confirms 
shes read and agreed to the terms and conditions  of the new account.  
There seems  to have been  some  confusion during Ms Ps initial queries. Nationwides  staff 
could see a different  uncompleted application  where  the account type hadnt been  selected. 
So Ms P was hesitant to sign the letter shed  received as it clearly said shed  already  
selected her account.  
After checking  its records  Nationwide  explained  Ms P hadnt  been able to complete the 
online application because  the device shed used  wasnt compatible with finalising the whole 
process. Thats why shed been sent the letter asking her to sign and accept the terms.
Nationwide did provide a copy of the terms and conditions of her account when Ms P visited 
the branch. But it was part of a document detailing the general account terms with specific  
sections for each account type. And Ms P feels if someone had explained that to her and 
confirmed they were the same as the online process shed had felt more confident to sign 
the letter and complete  the account  opening.
I do appreciate Ms P wanted  an actual copy  of the specific details which  wouldve been  part 
of her application process. But Nationwide has confirmed  the information  she received was 
the same  as shed have  seen online.  And this was explained to Ms P during two different 
calls. So I cant really  hold Nationwide responsible for Ms Ps decision not to sign the letter to 
complete the application process.  Itd provided her with the information  shed asked  for - 
even if it was in a slightly different format.
I understand Ms Ps concerns about  being  fully aware of what she was accepting. She 
wanted a physical copy of the account-specific  terms in her possession  when she signed  the 
letter. But that wasnt possible. So Nationwide provided the information as part of its general 
account terms and conditions. These terms are relevant to all of its customers  along with the 
specific account-type conditions included within. And Nationwide did confirm the information  
she had was the same as shed have seen if shed been able to complete the application 
online.
Ref: DRN77363423But I do think its right Nationwide  compensate Ms P for the confusion and inconvenience 
caused. I can see its increased its offer from £50 to £100. I know  Ms P will be disappointed  
with this outcome.  But based on what Ive seen I think £100  compensation is fair and 
appropriate in the circumstances. And I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  should pay Ms P £100  compensation  as 
it has already agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7736342