K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a store card.
background
FICL is neither the lender nor the seller of the PPI policy  complained about, but as the 
insurance underwriter of the policy it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So for 
simplicity Ill only refer to FICL in the decision.
In 1998 Mrs J took out a high street store card during  a store  visit. At the same  time she also 
bought Payment and Purchase  Protection Insurance  an element of which  was PPI 
designed to protect  her card payments in the event she couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. The policy also provided  purchase  protection cover. But Mrs J 
hasnt complained about this element of cover. So as it doesnt form part of the complaint I 
havent considered it. But for the purposes  of the complaint I have attributed  the full cost of 
the policy to the PPI element which puts Mrs J in the most favourable position, as it assumes 
the PPI is more expensive than it would  have been if somehow separated  out from the other 
cover. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  for every £100 Mrs J owed on the card. And it offered a 
monthly benefit of 15% of the balanced owed until Mrs J returned to work or the balance was 
paid off - whichever came first.
FICLs records  show that Mrs J paid just over £70 in premiums  during the life of the policy.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought Mrs J chose to take out 
PPI. And there was nothing to indicate shed lost out as a result of taking  it out.
 
Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. The complaint therefore comes  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
handling complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account  whats  
relevant here in deciding Mrs Js case. 
There doesnt appear to be a dispute  that the PPI was bought  during a store  visit. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest FICL recommended the cover to Mrs J  FICL says it didnt and 
Mrs J doesnt know or cant remember. So FICL  didnt have to make  sure the policy  was 
right or suitable for Mrs J. But it did have to give her enough  clear information about the 
policy so she could  make  a properly informed decision about whether to buy it or not. Ive 
kept this in mind  in my consideration of the complaint.
Mrs J says FICL didnt make it clear  she had a choice and that the PPI was added  without 
her knowledge.  FICL says Mrs J chose  PPI and it has provided a copy of the store card 
application and agreement form completed  at the time.
Ref: DRN79080402I can see on the form that Payment & Purchase  protection (PPI) is one of three  extra items 
she can choose if she wants  them, the other  two being a Card  Protection Plan and an 
additional store card.  Mrs J has signed  alongside a statement saying  yes, she wants  the 
Payment & Purchase  protection (PPI). She has not marked the form in any way to say she 
wants the other two items. Mrs J has signed the overall agreement.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mrs J knew she had a choice about whether to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
But theres not enough evidence to demonstrate that Mrs J was given all of the information 
she needed to make an informed choice about  the policy. For example it doesnt appear the 
costs and benefits were  made clear or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover 
were clearly brought  to her attention, such as existing medical condition exclusions.
I think Mrs J was likely sent a policy document  by FICL after she took out the cover because 
that is what it was required to do. But Mrs J didnt base her decision on that information.  
So overall I dont  think it likely that Mrs J got all of the information about  the PPI in a timely  
manner which she needed  to make a properly  informed  decision about whether to buy it or 
not. And I dont think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
However, in light of Mrs Js particular circumstances at the time,  I dont think  shes  lost out 
as a result  of the things FICL did wrong.  I say this because  I dont  think Mrs J would  have 
been put off taking out the policy if FICL  had given  her more information for the following 
reasons:
Mrs J was eligible for the cover and its benefits   for example she told us that despite 
working part-time she was working  at least 16 hours a week.
Mrs J chose to take it out; albeit  Im mindful  she did so with incomplete information.
Based  on her circumstances at the time, I think Mrs J would have found the PPI useful. 
She had some savings and between six and twelve months of full sickness  pay 
entitlement from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to her 
sickness pay and also paid out if she lost her job. And I think she might  have wanted to 
keep her savings or use them for something else or she wouldnt have wanted to borrow  
money on the store card. The policy provided  a monthly benefit  of 15% of the 
outstanding balance and had the potential to clear the entire account balance. So it 
would have helped  her manage what would  have been difficult  circumstances if she 
found herself unable to work as a result of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Mrs J was employed and in good health, so she wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover  for example existing medical 
condition exclusions.
And theres nothing  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable for Mrs J.
So overall I think Mrs J chose to take out PPI because, when it was offered to her in the 
store card application,  it was something  that interested her. And despite the fact that she 
didnt get clear information about  the policy,  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think 
shes lost out  I think Mrs J would still most likely  have bought PPI even if FICL had 
provided more information.
Ref: DRN79080403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Mrs J has not lost out as a result of buying 
PPI alongside  her store card, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7908040