K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to settle  his storm damage claim 
made under his landlords property insurance  policy. 
background
In December 2017 Mr G contacted AXA to advise of damage which he said had recently  
occurred to his property following a storm. AXA asked him to provide it with two estimates  for 
repair, which he did in January 2018. 
AXAs loss adjuster visited Mr Gs property in early February. Following this AXA asked the 
adjuster to make further enquiries  it had concerns that Mr G was letting his property as a 
house of multiple  occupation (HMO) (which it often wont give cover for). It also had 
concerns that the damage Mr G was now claiming for was the same  as damage that was 
apparent to the property in publicly available images dated 2014.  
Mr G told AXA he felt it had spent too much time on his claim already and it was absurd to 
suggest hed left his property in a damaged state since  2014.  He said the house  was let to a 
family. He said hed fix the damage himself and wouldnt communicate with the loss adjuster 
any further.
In April 2018 AXA issued  a final response  to Mr G. The letter  explained that sometimes 
questions about  HMOs are asked  when policies are applied for. AXA also explained that it 
had concerns about what it felt was differing information Mr G had provided  to it about how 
the house was occupied.  AXA confirmed  that the possibility  of pre-existing damage (dating 
to 2014) was still an issue for it. It said that unless Mr G allowed it to carry out its validation 
enquiries it wouldnt give further consideration to his claim.
Mr G was unhappy that AXA hadnt  settled  his claim and wouldnt consider  it further.  He felt 
it had been unprofessional. As well as complaining to this service  he contacted AXA and told 
it he wanted to cancel his policy. AXA agreed  and the policy was cancelled.
Our investigator noted Mr Gs frustration  but felt it was fair that AXA wanted to make further 
enquiries. He felt AXA had handled the claim appropriately.
Mr G was unhappy. He said he didnt think wed understood that AXA had completely failed 
to deal with his claim and that hed received no service whatsoever.  He said hed be minded 
to allow  it to continue  making enquiries  but hed want it to use a different loss adjusting  
company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G has found  the claim process frustrating. And I understand why he is 
keen for settlement of the claim to be made.  However,  it isnt always  possible for a claim to 
be resolved quickly.  And what  period is reasonable for a claim to continue over will depend 
very much on the individual circumstances at hand.
Ref: DRN76401252For example, it isnt unusual for an insurer to first ask a policyholder to provide estimates for 
repair. This is especially  the case during busy periods. I note that once Mr G provided 
estimates to AXA it appointed  a loss adjuster and a visit took place  within a few weeks.  In 
the circumstances Im satisfied AXA progressed the claim reasonably and within a 
reasonable timeframe. 
I know Mr G was unhappy with the adjuster during that visit; feeling  he wasnt prepared for or 
able to do the job hed been sent to carry out. Ive seen the adjusters report  and he seems 
to have understood and considered all the pertinent details. So Im not persuaded the 
adjuster did fail Mr G in this respect.
Overall Im satisfied that AXA, and its loss adjuster have  handled  the claim reasonably and it 
hasnt caused  it to be delayed. Im not persuaded there are any grounds  on which I can fairly 
require AXA to replace its loss adjuster because I havent found that the adjuster failed Mr G 
or caused problems  with his claim.  
I understand Mr G thinks AXAs concerns over pre-existing damage are absurd. But Im also 
mindful that an insurer has a duty to investigate claims to ensure that only valid ones are 
paid. That isnt to say I think Mr G has made  an invalid claim  rather  that I understand that 
AXA is entitled to make investigations  to satisfy itself that a valid claim has been  made.  AXA 
is aware though  that because it allowed Mr G to cancel his policy  it cant now reasonably 
pursue the concerns it had that he misrepresented the occupation type of his property to it 
when he arranged cover.  Thats because by cancelling the cover it affirmed the policy that 
had been in place. 
Because Im satisfied  that AXA has handled  the claim reasonably and that its fair for it to 
make further  enquires, Im not going to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  If Mr G wants to progress 
his claim hell need to cooperate with AXAs further enquiries. AXA will need  to make contact 
with Mr G following this decision in order to let him know what  it is that it wants him to do in 
that respect.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7640125