K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained R. Raphael & Sons  Plc hasnt refunded his prepaid card for money  
which he didnt get out of a cash machine. 
background
In November 2018 Mr F was overseas. He tried to withdraw $100 from a cash  machine. He 
didnt get any money  so tried again. This didnt work as he didnt have enough money  on his 
card.
Mr F complained to Raphael. They immediately refunded the money  and got in touch with 
the cash machine  operator through the chargeback scheme. They got confirmation  five 
20 dollar notes were dispensed. On that basis they took back  the money  theyd credited to 
Mr F. This took him into a debit position  so Raphael asked him to re-pay  the money.
Mr F was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Raphael was unable  to provide our service with the detailed evidence we required to assess  
whether Mr F got his money.  So based on the clarity of Mr Fs evidence,  our investigator told 
Raphael to repay the money.
Raphael disagreed with this and asked an ombudsman to consider this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent when  looking  after their card and PIN but 
nothing that Ive seen that would have an impact on how Im considering  this case.  So when 
we look at whether  a business has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the limited  evidence we have of the cash  
machine transaction along with what Mr F has told us. Unfortunately  the evidence Raphael  
has shared is limited to the cash machine journal roll. This confirms Mr F used his card to 
withdraw $100, notes  were dispensed and taken and Mr F was charged  the sterling 
equivalent of $107.99 (including the cash machine fee).
Weve told Raphael we need additional evidence  from the cash machine  operator  to give us 
a fuller picture of what was going on with that particular machine.  For example, what  were 
the transactions either side of Mr Fs attempt to get cash out, whether  there  were  any 
technical issues reported with the machine,  did it balance and what about any money that 
was collected  in its purge bin.
None of this information has been  forthcoming.
Ref: DRN72658702If I believed the cash  was dispensed as the result  of a genuine transaction,  and Mr F just 
walked away without  taking it, then it wouldnt be appropriate to refund him. But that isnt 
what he says took place. Mr F has told us he didnt  get the cash.  He wonders why hed have 
made all this fuss just for $100. I have to say I agree with him and have  no reason to 
disbelieve his testimony.
In the absence of any other evidence to show this isnt what happened, I think  its fair to say 
Raphael need  to refund  Mr F in full for the transaction.
Mr F used  the money Raphael immediately refunded to his card so theres no need  to apply 
any simple interest as wed normally do in these cases.  However Raphael  will need  to make 
sure Mr F is no longer  getting any requests to meet the debt.
I will be awarding compensation though as we do in similar cases.  Im going to ask Raphael  
to pay Mr F £100 for the inconvenience caused here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  R. Raphael  & Sons Plc to:
Refund £84.62 to Mr Fs prepaid card; and
Pay him £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7265870