K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Honda Finance  Europe Plc.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and to 
require Honda  to refund the cost of repairs to the clutch and pay compensation of £200. I 
invited Mrs B and Honda to let me have  any further evidence or arguments they wanted to 
make before I finally determined the matter.
Mrs B said she accepted my provisional  decision. 
Honda said that, following a review of the cars history, there was no record  of any concerns 
being raised by the former keeper and no record of any remedial work being  undertaken.  It 
said the car was an approved used car which meant it had been the subject of rigorous 
inspection. It said (based on discussions with Honda technicians) that any damage to the 
clutch would  have been apparent when the car was assessed. Honda also said that a clutch 
can fail through  incorrect use over a very short  period, and that it was rare for a customer 
who had caused  issues with the clutch through misuse to drive in the same  way again. 
Honda said it believed  that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mrs B.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points which Honda  has made. Because the clutch failed  in the first 6 
months its up to Honda to show that the fault wasnt present  at the point of supply. Honda 
has said that theres nothing in the history of the car to suggest that here were any clutch  
issues. I havent been provided  with the history  so I havent been  able to review it for myself.
Honda has also referred to previous assessments undertaken on the car and has said that if 
there was damage  to the clutch this wouldve been  apparent. Again, I havent  been  provided 
with the assessment records  so I cant be certain of what was inspected and of whether any 
remedial work was carried out.
Honda has said that it believes that Mrs B was riding  the clutch. It has said that the 
dealership wouldve demonstrated to her how not to do this. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mrs B was riding the clutch or engaging in any other form of misuse.  Nor have I 
seen anything from the dealership which suggests  that they gave Mrs B any instruction on 
how not to ride the clutch. On balance,  Im not persuaded  that Mrs B caused  the issue  
through misuse.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Honda  has provided enough evidence to rebut  
the presumption  that the fault was present  or developing at the point of sale. So I see no 
reason to change  my decision.
Ref: DRN73156712my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I uphold the complaint. Honda Finance Europe Plc must refund  the cost 
of repairs to the clutch and pay £200 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7315671