K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although another business  sold the PPI to Mr B, Allianz Insurance  Plcs accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer only to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mr B applied for a store card in 1996.  The PPI was sold to him at the same time. 
The policy cost 64p per £100 of the cards monthly outstanding balance.  It would have paid 
15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr B was off work sick or became unemployed. 
And it would have continued  to pay while he was off work until the outstanding  balance (at 
the start of the claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr B didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz ought to have  informed Mr B that the PPI was optional  and get his agreement before 
adding it. Ive seen  a copy of the store card application form Mr B signed, which included a 
separate section  headed  PAYMENT PROTECTION. In that section, Mr B ticked a box  
which he could have  left unticked  to take PPI and wrote his date of birth as the person to 
be insured. Mr B also signed for PPI in the same  section of the form. 
Overall, I think Mr B was made aware  the PPI was optional and that he agreed  to take it. I 
cant see enough evidence to show he was led to believe he had to have it if he wanted the 
card or that he was put under undue pressure.
I dont think Allianz advised  Mr B to take the PPI in the sense that I dont think it gave him a 
personal recommendation based  on his particular circumstances at the time of the sale. So I 
dont think it needed  to take steps to ensure the PPI was right for Mr B. 
But Allianz still had to give Mr B clear,  fair and not misleading information  so he could make  
up his own mind about whether the PPI was right for him. I cant  say for sure if that 
happened, but I dont  think  having better information would have put Mr B off taking  out the 
PPI in any case. I say that because:
It seems  Mr B was eligible for the cover under the policy  terms. And he wasnt  
affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited  cover for.
The PPI provided  a relatively high level of benefit per month  for a prolonged period of 
time, and at a relatively low cost. Potentially, it would have continued to pay out until 
Ref: DRN79572222the outstanding balance  was paid off. So I think he still would have seen the PPI as 
worth having  despite his sick pay entitlement  and the family help he says he could 
have relied on.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr B would have found the premium unaffordable.  And, 
as it was payable  on a monthly  basis,  Mr B could have cancelled the PPI at any time 
at no extra cost if he no longer wanted it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Bs lost out because of how Allianz sold him 
the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7957222