K820x#14complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt  carry out a chargeback that she requested. 
background
In May 2018  Miss T purchased photographs.  Upon receipt of the photographs she said the 
quality of the product was poor and she therefore wanted a refund.  Miss T approached 
Santander to complete  a chargeback. 
As I understand Santander said there wasnt a chargeback reason code specifically  for poor 
quality. They also asked  Miss T to provide evidence that the photographs were indeed  of 
poor quality.  Santander has advised our service that Miss T was unable to do this. 
Santander told Miss T to return the product in question to the merchant. Despite doing  so, 
Miss T is unhappy that she still didnt get a refund. 
Santander said they looked  at the dispute  but overall felt there was insufficient evidence 
which meant they were  unable to proceed. Santander explained that they act as a third party 
in such circumstances  and on a best endeavours basis. And that on this occasion they were 
unable to help Miss T get her money back.
Unhappy with this outcome,  Miss T referred  her complaint to our service to look at.
An investigator has already reviewed  this case.  She wasnt persuaded, based on the 
evidence presented to our service, that Santander  had acted unreasonably. 
In light of Miss T remaining unhappy  with this outcome, she has asked  that the matter now 
be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too have  decided  not to uphold this 
complaint for reasons  already outlined by the investigator.
I appreciate Miss T is unhappy that Santander  asked her to return the photographs  and then 
didnt complete the chargeback. Im afraid  that just because the items were  returned, it didnt 
mean the chargeback would necessarily be successful. 
I agree  that Santander was acting on a best endeavours basis to assist  Miss T. Santander 
didnt think they had enough evidence  from Miss T to support the chargeback. They  
therefore chose  not to proceed with it. I cant say theyve  acted  unreasonably  in these 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN83704742my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8370474