K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited has declined  a claim on his 
motorcycle insurance policy.
 
background
Mr Ms motorcycle was stolen from outside  his house while he says hed gone  inside for a 
few minutes to close and lock the garage door before going on a journey on it. The garage 
could only be locked  from inside the house  and Mr M therefore had to leave  the motorcycle  
unattended briefly  to do this. 
Markerstudy said in its final response  that it had declined to deal with Mr Ms claim as he had 
a garaging endorsement on his policy which required him to keep his vehicle  in a locked 
garage at his home. And if a theft occurred within a radius of 500 metres  of it and the vehicle  
wasnt locked the claim wouldnt be paid. The policy also said it doesnt cover a theft when 
the motor cycle was left unlocked or reasonable precautions  hadnt  been taken to protect it. 
Here the motorcycle was out of the garage and ready to go out. The steering lock was 
disengaged. When Mr M went back into the house to close  and lock the garage door from 
the inside  it was stolen in a five minute  period.  Its therefore declined the claim.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Mr Ms policy had a garage endorsement and hed agreed to keep  his motorcycle  in 
the private locked  garage at his home. The policy also said it wouldnt pay out if it 
was stolen within a radius of 500 meters when it was unlocked. But the restriction 
didnt apply whilst it was parked  away from his home during the course of a journey.
Mr M clearly kept his motorcycle in his private locked garage.  But as the garage door 
could only be double  locked from the inside he didnt have any alternative other than 
to temporarily leave it in front of the garage door.  As the theft occurred  while Mr M 
was in the process of taking his motorcycle out of the garage it isnt fair to decline his 
claim based on this garage  endorsement.
The policy also says it doesnt cover theft where the motorcycle  is left unlocked or 
reasonable precautions havent been taken to protect it. But Markerstudy  hasnt 
defined reasonable  precautions. 
Mr M says he didnt  engage the steering  lock but he hadnt  left the keys in the 
motorcycle or in its immediate proximity. Mr M says he left it for a maximum of five 
minutes; it was directly in front of the garage  door and several yards from the street 
in a quiet residential  area. And neither he nor his wife had ever had any issue leaving 
their bikes  like this before. Mr M didnt believe there  was a risk of theft and 
Markerstudy hasnt shown he failed to take reasonable precautions. 
As a result  Markerstudy should reconsider the claim  in accordance with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
Markerstudy doesnt agree. It says the point here is that Mr M left the bike without engaging  
the steering lock. If hed done  so it wouldve been more difficult  to take the bike and at very 
least this wouldve been a deterrent. And the fact the area is said to be a quiet residential 
Ref: DRN80771122area could  be more reason to believe the bike was left for longer that the five minutes Mr M 
suggests.
Mr M and his representative accept the investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that Mr M clearly kept his motorcycle  in a locked garage as 
required by the policy. And on the day in question I think he had started a journey by getting  
it out of the garage.  
In order to double  lock his garage  Mr M had to go back  into the house and engage a lock 
from the inside.  This lock and procedure were designed to make it more  difficult for the 
garage to be broken  into from the outside  and to protect another  motorcycle  and other items 
stored inside  the garage.
Mr M says he left his motorcycle outside the garage for at most  five minutes before he 
became aware  of the theft.  Markerstudy  suggests  that as this was perceived  to be a quiet 
residential area it was likely it was left for longer than is suggested. But theres  no evidence 
this was the case.
Markerstudy also says Mr M didnt engage  the motorcycles steering lock. That is accepted 
by Mr M but I havent seen anything to suggest  that engaging it wouldve actually prevented  
the theft. For example the motorcycle couldve been uplifted with the steering  lock engaged.
Mr M was also required  to take reasonable precautions to protect the motorcycle.  What  
these are isnt defined by Markerstudy. Here Mr M had effectively started  his journey, was 
only leaving  his motorcycle very briefly, took the keys with him and didnt leave them in or 
near his motorcycle and didnt perceive any risk of its theft. As a result  I think he took 
reasonable precautions to protect  his motorcycle.
Although I understand the points  Markerstudy has raised I dont think  its shown on balance 
on the available evidence that it is reasonable for it to decline Mr Ms claim as its done. 
Consequently I agree with the investigator  that in the particular circumstances of this case  
its fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to now consider Mr Ms claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Markerstudy Insurance  Company Limited should 
now consider Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8077112