K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about delays and changes to the valuation factors used by The Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited when transferring away from his Retirement Annuity Contract. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision,  a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. In summary I concluded  that:
-Mr H and his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) were told that the amount payable 
would be calculated  on the date of payment. That would likely have meant the IFA in 
particular was aware that this older-style policy was valued differently than more  
modern policies.
-It didnt appear they were aware of how much  of Mr Hs pension  entitlement was 
formed of a non-guaranteed  final bonus, so they might  reasonably  have expected 
that the transfer value could go up or down from what  they were  previously quoted  
when Prudential reviewed its bonuses on 1 April each  year.
-Prudential didnt  itself cause a material delay that resulted in Mr Hs returned 
paperwork missing an opportunity to obtain the pre-1 April transfer  value.
-As Mr H wasnt entitled to any particular fund from his policy  but rather  a guaranteed 
pension, Prudential had discretion in how it calculated the transfer value.  
-Nor did Prudentials  decision to introduce a 30-day guarantee in future  cases  affect  
the situation at the time Mr H transferred away  or suggest that in attempting to 
balance the interests of both remaining and departing policyholders  at that time,  
Prudential wasnt treating Mr H fairly.
-Mr H had cancellation rights he was able to exercise if he hadnt been  satisfied  with 
the final transfer value offered
-Prudentials management of the fund is supervised by the FCA and Mr Hs 
experience is a matter  his IFA is entitled to bring to the FCAs attention.
-I wasnt satisfied it should  make more than the £50 payment it had offered for its poor 
handling of the complaint.
Mr Hs IFA didnt agree with the provisional decision. His key points  were:
No reasonable  decision  maker could  have come to my conclusions. Whilst it was a 
matter of opinion  what date was correct for Prudential to value the transfer, the 
method of calculation  was not.
Prudential had clearly  stated the rate was calculated  by using our annuity rates (the 
rate at which we buy your pension  income) which has a clear meaning.
Prudential couldnt excuse this by accepting  this was misleading  terminology. It was 
a fundamental  principle that Mr H should be compensated for being  misled.
He could see from the bonus information given by Prudential  that the underlying 
policy value [in fact, the annual income  entitlement] dropped by 2.18% and that 
would be a fair reduction to make to the transfer  value.
The conversion factor Prudential  used to convert  this income to a transfer value was 
an artificial construct of their own making.
A company should act according to its stated policy, not another  one only it seems  to 
know about. 
The stated policy of relating to annuity rates, and the very small element of non-
guaranteed bonus  on the policy had lulled  Mr H and his IFA into a false sense of 
security that the transfer value could only vary a relatively small amount given what 
was happening in the annuity market at the time.
Ref: DRN84650882Mr H needed the tax-free cash to settle  his mortgage, so the option of exploring 
cancellation rights  was irrelevant.
Prudential had no further comment to make other than confirming it paid the £50 sum to 
Mr H in May 2017.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the new points Mr Hs 
IFA has made to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
It appears Mr Hs IFA considers my decision  to be unreasonable because  Prudentials 
admission to an error (misleading terminology)  guarantees Mr H compensation for financial  
loss. In my view that would only be the case if there  were further  contractual  terms created 
by the undertaking Prudential gave to use our annuity rates  (the rate at which  we buy your 
pension income) when  it valued Mr Hs pension at any given time.
I havent found that this was an express or implied contractual  term. Prudential did use the 
rate (or cost) of securing  Mr Hs pension  income to determine the transfer value, but it didnt 
bear a direct  relationship to the rate Mr Hs IFA was expecting it to use  namely the rate 
Prudential quoted for new annuity business.
Whilst this is an unfortunate misunderstanding which wasnt helped  by Prudentials use of an 
internal phrase to external customers,  Im not persuaded this gives Mr H an entitlement  to 
have a transfer value calculated on the new annuity  business rate. Prudential  didnt  
specifically refer to this rate in a way which gave Mr H a contractual  entitlement  to have a 
transfer value  based on it, but I think this is rather a case  of Mr Hs IFA assuming there was 
a direct linkage to this rate. Indeed as discussed  in my provisional  decision the contract  
gives Mr H no strict entitlement to a transfer  value at all.
The factor Prudential applied was one which, in its view, reflected  the cost to it at that time of 
funding the future pension  entitlement Mr H was giving  up. Market  annuity rates may be 
priced to attract   or alternatively discourage  new business, and may remain the same  
based on that business model even if the underlying cost of providing  the pension  changes.  
By contrast  the cost to Prudential of meeting a liability it already had was down to its 
actuaries to determine  under the oversight of the FCA as I outlined  in my provisional 
decision. There are valid reasons,  as I explained, for why the cost of providing this existing 
guarantee might change  in the actuarys  opinion  and in a way which wasnt  exactly 
mirrored by Prudentials market annuity  rate.
If a mistake  has been made, the remedy of that mistake is not to put the consumer in the 
position mistakenly indicated, but to consider whether Mr H would have acted differently but 
for the mistake. I appreciate his IFAs comments that they do feel they were misled  into not 
acting before 1 April 2017,  because the IFA felt market  annuity rates  would not move 
significantly. But I remain of the view that no guarantees were given, and the rate or factor 
Prudential used could  change at any time (not just 1 April)  even if (in the IFAs view) not by 
much. A significant transfer  value was at stake, and even a slight  change in the annuity  rate 
could have moved thousands  of pounds in Mr Hs favour or against him. 
I still dont have the impression that Mr H or his IFA acted with particular  urgency  during 
March 2017 and, in accepting the risk that the transfer value might change  it unfortunately 
moved against them. Its possible of course  they were acting to the timescale  of repaying the 
mortgage, rather than necessarily obtaining  the pension proceeds  as soon as possible.  So 
Ref: DRN84650883I havent found that clearer information from Prudential on exactly  how the factor  was 
determined would likely have made any difference to this timing  as ultimately Mr H and his 
IFA would  still have  been looking to repay the mortgage, but wouldnt have been able to 
predict with a great deal of accuracy whether the factor  would go up or down.  
I dont disagree with the point that this factor  was an artificial construct, for the very reason 
that Prudential  was having to grant  Mr H a transfer  value from a policy  which didnt allow  
such a transfer. This amount was at the discretion of Prudentials actuaries  bearing in mind  
that many  of those policyholders were staying  in the fund to receive a regular  income and 
were equally  entitled to their fair share of the funds  returns.
So Prudential was essentially  having  to carry out a balancing act and, if it decided  that 
previous conversion  factors it had used would now value the transfer  too highly it had the 
discretion to change  them. With-profits funds  have tended to become less popular because  
this discretion is not always  welcomed by investors   but its an inherent  part of the way the 
fund is managed that they have this discretion.
Finally, I appreciate Mr H may not have had the option of waiting for the transfer value to 
recover. But under  his original policy, taking the tax-free cash  would have necessitated  
taking an income at the same time. Mr H still had the right to take this income  if the lower  
transfer value  now made  it more  attractive as an alternative.  However if he ultimately 
preferred the flexibility to take tax-free cash without taking an income, this would always 
have necessitated  taking a transfer  value to a more  modern  plan.  Unfortunately  the 
Prudential plan was never set up to provide this, and so I cant  retrospectively require it to 
apply guarantees  to the flexible option Mr H chose  to take.
 
my final decision
As Prudential has already  settled the £50 compensation,  I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint 
and make no award. I appreciate my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to 
Mr H and his IFA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84650884Provisional decision of 14 May 2020
background
Mr Hs plan was a retirement annuity he took out in 1984, originally under s226 of the Income  
and Corporation Taxes  Act 1970. The benefits under the policy are on a with-profits basis 
comprising a basic annuity  amount, to which annual bonuses and potentially a final bonus are 
added (again as annuity amounts). 
At the time transfers between different  pension  providers werent legislated for, and so there 
wasnt provision under the contract for a fund value  to be payable. This was enabled under  the 
Governments March  1988 Budget and Prudential says a general Inland Revenue endorsement 
would have applied to all such policies permitting a transfer. However that would  say nothing 
about the basis on which  transfer  values would be calculated.
In November  2016 I gather  the transfer value of Mr Hs policy had been about £95,000. Mr Hs 
Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA) wrote to Prudential on 1 February 2017 requesting policy 
information. Prudential replied shortly  after issuing  two letters. The first (addressed to Mr H) gave 
the then current transfer value of about £117,000 and explained:
When calculating the value available, we have to convert the plans  total benefits (the basic 
annuity and attaching  bonuses)  into an equivalent  lump sum. This is done  by using our 
annuity rates  (the rate at which  we buy your pension  income) which are applicable  at that 
time.
 
A covering letter  to the IFA set out the income guarantees which applied  to Mr Hs plan and the 
bonuses added. In this context Prudential clarified Traditionally our rates  are updated on 1 
January and 1 April each year, however,  the company  reserves the right to update its rates at 
any time. That letter didnt refer to the transfer value or how it was calculated.
The IFA then asked  for transfer  forms in a request which Prudential received  on 27 February. On 
6 March Prudential quoted the transfer value  again  it had increased by about £30. Above 
where Mr H needed to sign the quote it read (with my emphasis):
The above values are not guaranteed and are based  on the assumption  that the last premium 
was paid on 1 March  2017.  The amount  payable  will be calculated at the date of payment 
and may be higher or lower  than the amount shown in A and B above.
The IFA says the quote arrived mid-March  and Mr H signed it on 20 March. Prudential  didnt 
receive this and other documents, sent under cover of the IFAs letter of 23 March, until 28 
March. I presume that the IFA had separately contacted the receiving scheme.  Prudential 
awaited contact from that scheme as transfers  are made on the online system  Origo options  it 
received this on 31 March.
On 1 April Prudential revised its bonus rates applying to the contractual annuity  amount, and 
factors used to calculate  the non-contractual transfer value. Ive asked it to retrospectively 
provide the breakdown in annuity amounts  and transfer values  on 31 March and 8 April (when 
the transfer value was actually  paid):
31 March 2017
£ p.a. Conversion factor
Transfer value £
%
Basic Annuity 3,557   66,758   57.1
Annual Bonus 2,495   46,817   40.0
Non-Gteed Bonus
   180x 18.77 
approx    3,384     2.9
Total 6,232 116,959 100.0
Ref: DRN846508858 April 2017
£ p.a. Conversion factor
Transfer value £
%
Basic Annuity 3,580   62,309   58.7
Annual Bonus 2,511   43,697   41.2
Non-Gteed Bonus
       4x 17.40 
approx         65     0.1
Total 6,096 106,071 100.0
Mr H and his IFA complained that Prudential  took a month to provide transfer forms. They said 
but for this, all documentation could have  been completed and returned in time to complete the 
transfer without any reduction. They thought the significance of the change in valuation on 1 April 
should have been flagged up in advance.  And in the circumstances, Prudential should honour 
the higher valuation on 31 March   when  it did have  all its requirements. They  also complained  
that the service received from Prudential in investigating the complaint was poor.  
Prudential said it produced all documents in a timely  manner and couldnt  be responsible for 
postal delays. It also noted that it wasnt feasible  to complete a transfer  on the same  day as a 
request is received. It confirmed to our adjudicator that it had a turnaround time for transfers of 
five working days.  It added:
Unfortunately, the investment returns  that we had received to date were not sufficient to 
justify the amount of non-guaranteed bonuses that we had previously incorporated  into our 
quotations and, as a result, they were reduced.
Changes in the non-guaranteed  bonuses and adjustment to reflect current  market conditions  
resulted in a lower transfer value which you have noticed. Although  these changes also 
affected the pension benefits, an alteration in the interest rates  underlying  our annuity 
quotations meant that the overall affect was a greater  proportional decrease in the transfer 
value. The main factors causing the interest rate volatility during  2016 were the market 
conditions following the results of the EU referendum.
While its not recorded  in any terms and conditions,  the adjudicator  agreed  five working days  was 
a fair turnaround time.  And as Mr H didnt receive  the best service from Prudential when  he 
raised a complaint, its offer of £50 compensation  was fair and reasonable.  
The IFA responded that Prudential should honour  the value on the date it originally  received the 
documentation. And that there was nothing in the information Prudential  supplied  pre-transfer  to 
explain there was a bonus deadline of 1 April 2017. A previous ombudsman  asked  Prudential  
about this, as it is indeed the case that the majority  of pension products are priced for transfer,  
fund switches etc based on the date of receipt of the instruction. 
Prudential clarified that the transfer in this case was on non-contractual  terms, and the 
information supplied pre-transfer did make it clear  the valuation basis was on date of processing 
the transfer. It didnt agree it was the industry norm  to value on date of receipt of the instruction,  
as this varied from policy to policy.
The ombudsman reached a provisional  decision to uphold this complaint. In brief, her findings 
were:
Prudential responded to the IFAs  requests within reasonable periods  of time.
The pre-transfer letters made  clear figures werent guaranteed, so giving a deadline 
might have confused the position  and given the impression there  was a guarantee. 
It wasnt however fair to Mr H in the circumstances  of this case  that the transfer value  
dropped in a way he wouldnt have been expecting. 
Ref: DRN84650886He had no knowledge  of the change  in bonus policy, whereas Prudential  did  and this 
produced a much worse outcome for Mr H.
Mr Hs IFA accepted the provisional decision, but Prudential didnt  agree. It said it would amount 
to treating Mr H more  favourably than other investors in its with-profits  fund, from which Mr Hs 
transfer value  had been  paid. It had used the process of applying  conversion factors to the 
guaranteed pension  plus bonuses to obtain transfer  values for thirty years.  In common with how 
other non-guaranteed components (such as final bonuses) could be revised  to ensure  departing  
investors left with their fair share of the fund, it was applying this approach to the non-guaranteed 
(and non-contractual) transfer value.
The timing of the provisional  decision coincided with a management decision Prudential took to 
begin providing 30-day  guarantees on transfer values in future. It was unwilling to consider  
applying this retrospectively in Mr Hs case, again  because of the matter of equal treatment with 
other policyholders.  Mr Hs transfer value  was paid at a time when it was not taking this approach 
for him or any other policyholder in his situation.
As agreement  could be reached, and the previous  ombudsman is no longer in a position to 
decide this complaint, Ive reviewed it entirely  afresh and come  to my own conclusions.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
I asked the investigator to write to both the IFA and Prudential with some questions.  Regarding  
the IFAs belief that no information had been provided  about a bonus deadline, we pointed out 
both the letter advising  that the rates would be updated on 1 April, and the quote advising  that 
the policy would be valued on the date of payment. We asked the IFA to explain  how, given the 
delivery of the transfer  documentation  to Prudential at the very end of March, he expected Mr Hs 
policy to be valued using Marchs rates.
The IFA agreed that the transfer value quoted on 6 March was not guaranteed and it was a 
matter of opinion what date Prudential  used  to value the payment. However in his view that 
wasnt the issue  it was actually  one of Prudential treating with-profits policyholders  fairly  under  
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  rules. The IFA suggested that 2017 experienced benign  
market conditions, so a cliff edge drop in the transfer value wasnt reasonable. 
In addition  he thought that Prudentials reference to rates updating on 1 April related to bonuses 
on the with-profits pension  specifically the final bonus (as all other bonuses were guaranteed). 
The factor converting this pension to a transfer value was stated to be based on Prudentials 
annuity rates  which are applicable at that time. As a result, the IFA had looked up gilt yields 
between March and April 2017, on which he expected Prudentials  annuity rates  to be based.
The cost of gilts increased by about 2.3% over the month, so he agreed there would be a small  
reduction in transfer value   but counteracting this, the value of Prudentials  investments based 
on gilts would  have increased,  and shares were also rising that month. The IFA also attached  an 
article from February 2018 in which  Prudential had celebrated the strong performance of the 
with-profits fund that year. So none of that, in the IFAs  opinion, squared with the reduction in 
Mr Hs transfer  value.
We put these comments to Prudential. It explained  that because the bonus updates  for this type 
of policy  typically  only take place twice a year, the value of the benefits can get out of sync with 
the policys share  of the with-profits funds underlying assets. It provided  the figures set out 
above, which  show that the non-guaranteed final bonus was cut significantly (almost eliminated) 
on 1 April. But the main  reason for the change in transfer value was a cut in the conversion factor 
applied to Mr Hs pension per year.
Ref: DRN84650887Prudential asked its technical team to comment on the IFAs observations about the annuity 
rate. They said this may be down to using misleading terminology , because the annuity rate 
was a term used internally for the transfer  value conversion factor applying  to this type of policy  
and it had no relation to Prudentials market rate for annuity purchases. They explained  he 
conversion factor is designed to ensure that a departing  member of the with-profits  fund leaves 
with no more  than their fair share of the underlying  assets.
Ive carefully considered what Prudential  and Mr Hs IFA have said.  Whilst  I note that the IFA has 
moved on from the argument  over when  the policy is valued, this has formed part of the original  
complaint and its relevant  for me to give my opinion on this. And that extends to whether 
Prudential caused a delay which contributed to the valuation being  carried out after 1 April in any 
event. Lastly, Ill consider the question  of how the policy is valued.
When should the policy be valued?
I think its significant that Mr Hs policy was taken  out before daily priced funds became more 
common. This was a traditional with-profits investment where the premiums Mr H paid in 
guaranteed him a pre-determined pension  amount, to which  bonuses were then added.  So there  
wasnt an issue with valuing the fund on a particular day to determine the bulk of the benefits 
Mr Hs premiums secured.  
It was only on taking  benefits or transferring  out that knowledge of how the plan would  be valued  
might have made a difference.  And in my view there was no particular reason  the fund had to be 
valued on the day Prudential received a particular instruction, providing Prudential made this 
clear in any quotes provided. 
On the quote  of 6 March Prudential said that the amount  payable would be calculated at the date 
of payment. I think this is clear, particularly as I expect Mr Hs IFA  who was acting on his 
behalf  would have been familiar with how more modern  policies do value plans  on the date of 
receipt of the necessary transfer paperwork. So this wording  would reasonably have put him and 
his client  on notice  that this policy  was valued differently.
Separately, Mr H and his IFA were told that Prudential updated its bonuses on 1 April. I accept  
the IFA understood the conversion factor to simply be a market annuity rate, but equally  I havent 
seen that he was aware of precisely how much of Mr Hs benefits  were the non-guaranteed final 
bonus. I think its fair to say that based  on this information, anyone might have expected that the 
transfer value  could  go up or down. In fact, noting that there  had been a recent increase (by 
some 23% over a few months), there was arguably more potential for there  to be a correction  in 
the other direction  at the 1 April bonus review.
So notwithstanding  the confusion over the term annuity rate, I think  the disclosures  Prudential 
made in its documentation were sufficient to highlight that Mr H and his IFA would need to work 
to a tight timescale during March  2017 if they wanted to avoid risking the possibility  of a lower 
transfer value. Of course they wouldnt have been able to rule out the transfer value  going up as 
well, so without the benefit of hindsight I can see why they might not necessarily have been 
particularly concerned at that time.
Did Prudential cause a delay  resulting in the valuation after 1 April?
As the policy is valued on the date of payment,  I understand  there  might be a concern that 
Prudential is effectively has some control over whether Mr H obtains the pre- or post-April value.  
However Im satisfied  that this isnt in fact something Prudential would set out to do, as it also 
holds itself to a five working  day service standard. 
If all of Prudentials requirements had been met more than five working days  before 1 April, but it 
failed to meet  the service  standard,  I think it would then have  considered  giving Mr H the pre-
Ref: DRN84650888April valuation  otherwise Mr H would have been able to complain about the five day service 
standard. So Mr H could  still eliminate the risk of getting the value after Prudential had reviewed 
its bonuses. He would effectively need to ensure  that he got the forms to Prudential before the 
final week of March.
The timeline doesnt bear out that Prudential  took a month to provide transfer forms.  The quote 
of 6 March was posted to the IFA who arranged  for Mr H to sign it on 20 March and returned it on 
23 March. There may have been post delays (for which Prudential cant  be held responsible).  But 
it wouldnt  be unusual to take a few days to deal with paperwork in a busy  office.  I think  its also 
probable that Mr H and his IFA werent acting with the haste  that, with hindsight, they might now 
wish they had done. They  could have been  in a position to expedite the return of the documents 
more than five working days before  the end of March.
How should the policy  be valued?
Payments at maturity  from with-profits pension  plans  benefit from the underlying guarantees, and 
this does apply to Mr Hs pension per year (with the exception of the final bonus). However as 
Mr Hs transfer  value  isnt guaranteed, I think the calculation is more similar to a transfer  of the 
fund value from a more modern with profits policy before maturity, where  that value is also not 
guaranteed and market  value reductions  may apply.
With-profits providers  need to balance  the interests of those remaining  in the fund with those  
leaving it, and I think the conversion factor in this case achieves a similar thing. The terms for 
transferring out of Mr Hs type of plan were not guaranteed, only the annual pension he could 
receive if he drew benefits directly from the plan. But Mr H had decided to access his benefits 
flexibly instead.
Subsequent to this complaint, Prudential has decided  to guarantee transfer values  for 30 days  on 
Mr Hs type of policy. But that doesnt mean I can require it do so in Mr Hs case. Introducing the 
guarantee is likely to mean that the bonuses and conversion factors are set more cautiously in 
future, and Mr Hs transfer value of 6 March 2017 wasnt calculated with that in mind. 
  
In determining  a complaint  I must consider whats  fair and reasonable, and Mr Hs IFA has 
referred to the FCA rules  on treating customers fairly. But in a with-profits  fund there are more 
customers than just Mr H. I cant ignore that Prudential has the right to assess the asset share  of 
those departing the with-profits  fund and adjust transfer values at that time (by use of the 
conversion factor)  to ensure that they werent  departing with more than their fair share.  I dont  
doubt Prudentials commentary that factors such  as Brexit affected its actuarys view of asset  
share in the fund at that time.
I understand the IFAs concern that Prudential  later reported a strong  year for the with-profits  
fund, but I have to note that Mr Hs transfer value still increased overall from about £95,000 to 
£106,000 (about 11.5%)  despite this fluctuation. And benefits being taken on contractual terms, 
which is what Prudential would be reporting in such an article, wouldnt  have experienced quite 
the fluctuation  Mr H did in his transfer  value.
Prudentials compensation payment
Im aware Prudential paid compensation of £50 into Mr Hs bank account for its poor handling of 
his complaint. Ive carefully  considered whether the misleading terminology  to which its 
technical team  referred  would  warrant me making a higher award.  But ultimately,  I dont think the 
timing of Mr Hs application  was based on knowledge that Prudentials market annuity rates  
werent changing.
Ultimately, the transfer value was never guaranteed,  and the cause  of Mr Hs disappointment is 
the decisions Prudential made  in its management  of the with-profits fund. I havent  found grounds 
to say these decisions were unfair in terms of Mr Hs asset share versus  other  fund members. 
Ref: DRN84650889Prudentials management of the fund is supervised  by the FCA and Mr Hs experience is a matter 
his IFA is entitled to bring to the FCAs attention. Although the FCA may act on feedback  it 
receives, it wont necessarily be able to respond  directly.
 
The drop in Mr Hs transfer value was just below a threshold of 10% where life companies will 
often check if the policyholder still wishes to proceed. However it would have been open to Mr H 
and his IFA to explore using their cancellation  rights if the change in transfer  value materially 
affected Mr Hs decision  to access his benefits  flexibly at that time.
my provisional decision
I intend to conclude  that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt  be upheld in respect of anything other  than 
the £50 compensation payment, in the event this hasnt credited Mr Hs account. 
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465088