K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2001. 
background
I can see Capital One has already  paid Mr H back some of the money  it received from the 
commission it got from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators  has said his 
complaint about  the actual mis-sale shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr H still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place  and hes asked for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint.
Mr H says he has no memory  of agreeing to buy the PPI. Given how long ago this was 
however, Im not surprised. But Ive seen the postal application form Mr H used and theres a 
question on it asking  him to choose  whether he wants  this type of policy.  Mr H ticked the 
yes box and so in my view this document does demonstrate that Mr H must have wanted 
the policy at the time. And because he specifically selected the cover, its clear to me that he 
consented to the PPI.
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. But Capital One still had a 
responsibility to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
My experience of these  Capital One postal  sales, from that time period, is that the 
application form was accompanied by some information about the terms and conditions. And 
I note Mr H was prompted  on the form to read through these. As he most  probably filled in 
the form in his own time without any input from Capital One, I think he probably had enough 
information and time in which to make his own informed choice. 
I can certainly see how Capital One could have  made improvements to the application  form 
to make it clearer.  But Im afraid  this doesnt change how I view the case and I still think he 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to him wanting  the cover. I also think  Mr H was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the PPI was 73p for every  £100 of balance  outstanding on his credit card 
and I dont think this would have been  unaffordable for him.
Mr H told us he already benefitted from sick pay with his job. But as Ive already said,  this 
wasnt an advised sale, so the choice about having  PPI was for him to make.  His sick pay 
was relatively moderate and in the event  of a successful claim, the policy  wouldve paid off 
Ref: DRN8792745210% of his outstanding balance for up to a year and I think this is most likely why he 
specifically chose to have PPI when he filled out his application form. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I can see how the cover was of use to him.
As Ive said,  Capital One has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because 
when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told him about that. To put that right,  it 
has agreed to pay back  the amount of commission and profit  share that was above 50% of 
the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Capital  One (Europe) plc to pay any compensation. 
Capital One (Europe) plc has already agreed  to pay the amount of commission it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8792745