K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited told him hed be able to take all of his 
pension benefits  in a tax-free cash amount, when this wasnt right.  
Mr Hs financial  advisor brings the complaint on his behalf.
background
M H has a pension with Aviva and when it sent him the information  to allow  him to choose 
his options for taking  it, it said he could take 100% of his total fund as tax-free cash.
Mr Hs financial  advisor questioned this and Aviva  confirmed it was right. But, when it came  
to paying out Mr Hs pension, Aviva  realised that he wasnt entitled  to have it all as tax-free 
cash as hed made payments into his pension after 6 April 2006 (known as A-day)  when the 
Government introduced  new rules  for pensions. These rules said that 25% of the pension  
fund could be taken  as a tax-free  lump sum.
Aviva apologised for the mistake and sent Mr H a cheque  for £400 as compensation for 
being given this wrong information a number of times, and the loss of expectation  this 
caused.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said hed made  plans  for the money, and had spent  other money 
based on what he thought hed be getting from Aviva. He said it should reimburse the full 
amount of tax he would incur.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought Avivas offer of compensation 
was fair. He said it wasnt in dispute  that Aviva  had made mistake  in confirming that 100% of 
Mr Hs pension fund could  be taken  as tax-free  cash. And this had caused Mr H to suffer a 
loss of expectation of the amount hed get without  having to pay tax. But the adjudicator said 
this wasnt an actual  financial  loss. When the adjudicator spoke  to Mr H, he hadnt yet taken  
the pension amount and so any tax hadnt  been paid. Mr H had spent some money on home  
improvements but the adjudicator didnt think his decision to do this had been influenced by 
the expectation of not having to pay any tax on his cash sum from his pension. 
Mr H and his advisor  didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed. Aviva  had confirmed the pension value would be 100% tax-free as a cash  sum 
and the advisor  had checked this with Aviva several  times.  This meant  Mr H spent other 
money with the intention  of repaying this when he received his cash  sum from Aviva.  He 
wouldnt have spent  this money had he not been  told it would be tax-free. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it will have been disappointing for Mr H to learn that he would need to 
pay tax on part of his pension benefits  by taking it as a cash  sum, when hed been told it 
would be fully tax-free. 
Ref: DRN81303612As the adjudicator has said, it isnt in dispute  that Aviva made  this mistake. And I can see 
that it was confirmed to Mr H in the documentation  he received and in phone  calls his 
advisor made to clarify this. It was only when Aviva came to process Mr Hs request  to 
receive the cash that the mistake was realised.
I know from what Mr H has said that hes always been under the impression  that his pension 
benefits with Aviva gave  him a totally tax-free  lump sum. But Mr Hs advisor has told us that 
Aviva hadnt  previously confirmed the plan was entitled to enhanced tax-free cash, and no 
real in-depth  information had been requested about the pension benefits from Aviva  before.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said about how he planned his spending  around  
the expectation of not having to pay any tax on his pension cash sum from Aviva.  Ive 
listened to his conversations with our adjudicator and taken into account the bank 
statements hes sent us as well as his advisors  points  about how Mr H spent from another 
pension, believing  he could  replace  it from his Aviva pension.
And I find I agree with the adjudicator in that I cant safely say that Mr Hs decision to spend 
his other  pension income on home  improvements was largely influenced  by him not having 
to pay any tax on the pension from Aviva. I say this because the spending hes referred to on 
his bank statements  was done after he was made aware that the cash sum wouldnt be 
100% tax-free. And, from what Mr H has told us, it doesnt seem  that he wouldve made 
different choices when  it came to these purchases. Also the amount of tax he paid on the 
Aviva pension was relatively small in comparison to the amount of the fund he was taking 
benefits from. So overall, Im not persuaded that if Mr H had known that some of his Aviva 
fund might be taxed, he would have acted any differently.  
Aviva has sent Mr H a cheque for £400  as an apology for giving the wrong  information  and 
for his loss of expectation, and I think that represents fair compensation for this particular 
complaint. 
It isnt clear whether  Mr H still has this cheque, or if hes cashed it. However, if its the case  
that it has been returned or is now out of date, then I would expect Aviva to send Mr H a 
replacement.
my final decision
I am aware  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited has made an offer to pay Mr H £400. I 
conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr H £400,  only if he is unable to pay in 
the cheque it has already  sent him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.  
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8130361