K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited refused to pay his commercial  
vehicle insurance  claim.  
background
Mr M noticed smoke coming  from his car, so he pulled over. When  he lifted the bonnet he 
saw flames in the engine  bay, Mr M then used  a fire extinguisher to put the fire out. He 
called Haven to claim for the damage  caused  by the fire. 
Haven appointed an engineer to review Mr Ms claim. The engineer said the seat of the fire 
was in the same area as the battery, so he thought the likely cause was an electrical  fault. 
Because of this Haven turned down Mr Ms claim. It said damage caused  by electrical faults  
isnt covered. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Havens response, so he complained. He said the 
garage hed taken his car to said it wasnt possible to say the fire was caused by an 
electrical fault. Haven  didnt change its position, so he brought his complaint here.  
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ms claim and found that fire damage is covered by Mr Ms 
policy, but electrical faults arent.  Because of this he recommended Haven deal with the 
claim for the fire damage. Haven disagreed, it said the policy didnt cover electrical faults  and 
because an electrical  fault started the fire the claim wasnt covered. 
As Haven  disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a comprehensive policy with Haven. That means it provides cover  for damage 
caused by fire. Havens  said as the fire was the result of an electrical failure  its not covered. 
It relied on an exclusion which says the following isnt covered: Mechanical, electrical, 
electronic computer or software breakdowns, failure, faults or breakage . 
Ive considered Mr Ms point about  the cause  of the fire not being electrical, but I dont think  
that makes a difference in this case.  Thats because even if the fire was the result  of an 
electrical failure, Im satisfied Haven should  cover  it. I say that because Mr Ms policy  covers 
him for damage caused by fire. As Haven agrees theres damage caused  by fire it should  
cover the damage  caused by the fire. 
Im therefore  satisfied it wouldnt produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint  if I 
allowed Haven to rely upon this exclusion,  to turn down Mr Ms claim. But I do think  its fair 
and reasonable to not cover an electrical  fault itself,  as its excluded under the policy.  Haven 
should therefore not rely on this term to decline Mr Ms claim for fire damage and deal with 
his claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
As Haven  incorrectly turned down Mr Ms claim, he said hes had to borrow money  to 
purchase another car. Mr Ms said hes not incurred a cost when borrowing the money, so I 
dont think Haven need to reimburse  him as hes not suffered  a loss here. This is because  if 
Haven repairs Mr Ms car then he would have  this car and the one he purchased  so he could 
sell one to recoup his outlay. If Mr Ms car is deemed a total loss and Haven pays  a 
Ref: DRN85535162settlement, it should add 8% simple interest  per year to the amount it pays  to compensate 
him for not having the money. 
Mr M said he also spent  £350 buying  second  hand parts  to repair  his car. He said its still not 
repaired though  as it needs  more  parts. As Mr M wouldnt have incurred these costs, if 
Haven had dealt  with his claim, it should repay this amount to Mr M. Upon doing so the parts 
would become the property of Haven. Haven should also add 8% simple interest per year to 
this amount to compensate Mr M for not having the money. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Haven 
Insurance Company Limited  needs  to deal with Mr Ms claim for fire damage, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. If a cash settlement is made Haven needs  to add 8% 
simple interest per year to the amount it pays,  calculated from the date of the fire until the 
date it makes payment.1 
Haven Insurance  Company Limited also needs to pay Mr M £350  for the second  had parts  
hes bought. It should  add 8% simple interest  per year to this amount from the date Mr M 
paid for the parts until the date it makes payment. Upon payment of this the parts would 
become the property of Haven Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Haven Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8553516