K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a credit agreement he has with The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading 
as MINT, (RBS), is not enforceable.  He also complains about RBS charges and 
communication in relation to his financial difficulty and debt. Mr S is represented in this 
complaint by solicitors  from a law firm I will refer to as F. 
background
Mr S took out a credit card in 1998 with the RBS, with a credit limit of £9,230.  In 2011 he 
started to experience  some financial difficulty and soon after was struggling to make 
payments on his debt.  Mr S instructed F to act on his behalf.
F requested  that RBS send it a copy  of Mr Ss credit card agreement, pursuant to s78 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  together with a signed statement containing information relating 
to the outstanding debt.  It said that failure to comply with this request  meant  the agreement 
could not be enforced. 
RBS was unable  to send a copy of the credit  agreement so F made a complaint on Mr Ss 
behalf. F said Mr S had some medical  conditions  and was now unemployed as a result, so 
he relied on benefits for his sole income. It said RBS shouldve known about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time the agreement was signed. And these should have been taken 
into account by RBS to ensure it treated Mr S fairly. It said actions taken by RBS, including 
continuing to ask for payment when  it had asked RBS to not contact Mr S, have  exacerbated 
Mr Ss already difficult circumstances. It said it believes this is being done  to unfairly 
pressurise Mr S into making payments. F said that as RBS had no means of providing the 
agreement it cannot prove  the debt so it said RBS should  write  off the debt. 
RBS did not dispute that the credit  card agreement is currently  unenforceable. But it 
expected Mr S to meet his obligations,  bearing in mind the credit  card agreement is not void 
and remains valid. It said requests for payments  would continue to be made to Mr S. It also 
said that if repayments are not paid as they fall due it would report  this with Credit Reference  
Agencies (CRAs), including any default. 
With respect to the original application  in 1998 it said it was not possible for it to carry out a 
thorough investigation into Fs claims that Mr Ss personal circumstances were  not taken into 
consideration at the point of sale or during the application process.  But it was satisfied Mr 
Ss application would have passed through its normal appraisal process. It said the account 
was run in good  order until 2011  which gave no indications of any difficulties faced by Mr S 
prior to that. 
F was not satisfied with this response so it brought the complaint to this service. It also 
asked us to consider whether charges had been applied appropriately to the account.  
Our investigator said that we were unable to look at the miss-sale of the credit card, as the 
complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction under the rules concerning the time when a 
complaint is brought to us. F accepted this. The investigator said the aspect of Mr S's 
financial difficulties in November 2011  onwards is in our jurisdiction. RBS consented  to us 
looking at charges on Mr Ss account for six years from the date the complaint was first 
raised in October  2018.
In his view the investigator said that as Mr S had had the benefit of the funds RBS was still 
able to pursue  him for the debt. He also noted  that RBS are required under regulatory 
Ref: DRN80767302requirements to notify Mr S about  the position  of the debt, (and any other  information  in 
regards to his account)  directly. With respect  to Mr Ss financial difficulties he believed  RBS 
had behaved in a positive  and sympathetic  manner.  He also said RBS had not applied any 
charges, interest  or fees since 2012.  
F asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  It said Mr S continued to dispute the 
amount of historic debt.  It said RBS had so far failed to demonstrate that a sum was payable  
and said it should  write  off the debt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has said it would like the element of Mr Ss complaint relating to what debt (if any) is 
payable to be referred to the ombudsman. It accepted the investigators other findings. So 
its left for me to look at the current debt and what may be payable.  
Id first like to reassure Mr S and his representative,  F, that Ive read all the correspondence 
in the file but if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
F has said that because RBS cannot  produce the original agreement  this means, in law, that 
the debt is not enforceable.  And I accept that RBS has said the debt is unenforceable.  But I 
have no power to say whether a credit  agreement is enforceable or not, nor can I determine 
if either F or RBS are correct,  this would ultimately  be up to the court  to decide. It follows  
then that I am unable  to say how much is owed  if the debt is unenforceable.
I have taken this into account, along with all the legal points F has raised,  but my role is to 
decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. F has 
said if RBS doesnt  write  off the alleged debt Mr S may be waiting indefinitely  for RBS to 
provide information  about the alleged debt and at the same time this will negatively  impact 
Mr Ss finances and credit file. 
Ive looked at statements since 2008 and I note Mr S told RBS he had taken advice  from a 
debt counselling service and was going  on a debt management plan in 2011.  RBS 
responded by offering a long term debt management repayment  plan,  specific to his credit 
card account, which Mr S accepted. By this acceptance it seems reasonable to me that Mr S 
accepted he does have a debt with RBS. In addition  Mr S hasnt denied  hes had the benefit 
of the money.  So Im satisfied that Mr S has borrowed money against an agreement.  So I 
think its reasonable of RBS to ask for it to be paid back. 
Ref: DRN80767303my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8076730