K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably  in refusing to 
accept her claim under a travel insurance policy. She wants her claim paid.
background
Ms K had a travel insurance policy with AXA. She went  abroad  on holiday but her nephew  
died while she was away. Ms K curtailed her trip and returned  home.  She made a claim to 
AXA for her flight home and the unused portion of her hotel accommodation. AXA declined  
the claim,  saying that a nephew was not included within  the definition  of a close family 
member.
Ms K complained to AXA. It said the definition of a close relative under the terms and 
conditions of the policy was set out clearly within the policy and didnt  cover  nephews. AXA 
was willing  to consider the matter further if Ms K would contact it. It paid £100 compensation 
for the delay  in dealing with the complaint.
Ms K complained to us, saying that she didnt think you could have a relative  closer  than a 
nephew. The investigators view was that AXA wasnt at fault. He said that the policy  didnt 
define a nephew as a close  family member and having considered what  Ms K had said 
about her relationship, the investigator didnt think that it was unfair  or unreasonable  for AXA 
to decline the claim.
Ms K disagreed. She said if a foster child was covered, then a nephew should  be included.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy defines  the meaning  of the phrase close family member as:
'Means mother,  mother-in-law,  father, father-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, brother, brother-in-
law, wife, husband, civil partner, daughter, daughter-in-law, son, son-in-law, grandparent, 
grandchild, step parent, step child, step sister, step brother, foster child,  legal guardian, 
partner or fiance/fiancee  of an Insured Person.'
On the face of it, a nephew isnt in this list and its up to the insurer to decide  what its willing 
to cover  theyre allowed  to use their commercial judgement when drafting policies. But this 
service thinks  about whats fair and reasonable. Its possible that in specific cases  due to the 
strength of a relationship, it might  be fair and reasonable  to include an excluded  relative  e.g. 
if a niece was brought  up by her uncle,  we might view the relationship  as being akin to 
parent and child.
Ref: DRN85903522Ms K has said that she couldnt see anyone being  closer than a nephew.  But a child or a 
mother would be seen  as closer. Ms K was asked about her relationship with her nephew. 
She said that they were close and he had lived only a ten minutes walk from her home. 
Ms K explained that she had only one nephew  and one niece  and was single. Given  the 
circumstances, I cant  say that it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to decline the claim.
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept  or reject my decision 
before 6 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8590352