K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Marshall Of Scunthorpe  Limited (Marshall) mis-sold  Payment  Protection  
Insurance (PPI) alongside a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2005 Mr H visited a car dealership and took out a loan to finance the purchase of a car. At 
the same  time he also took out PPI designed to protect his loan in the event of his death and 
if he suffered a critical illness. 
For the avoidance of doubt a different business sold PPI, but Marshall subsequently 
acquired it. So for ease  I will only refer to Marshall in this decision as the seller  of the policy.
The policy was a single premium policy so the cost was added  to the loan upfront attracting 
interest over the term of the loan  in this case three years. The total cost assuming the loan 
ran to term was around £700.
At the time Mr H was employed  full time;  he was single; and he had no dependants.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld.  He said he thought Mr H had been 
advised to take out the policy.  But given his particular circumstances at the time he said he 
didnt think the recommendation was suitable, so Mr H should be compensated.
Marshall disagrees. It says the sale was carried  out by a business it subsequently acquired. 
And says that while it agrees it is the correct respondent  for the complaint, it wants the 
ombudsman to take into account  the fact that Mr H took out the policy  six years  before it 
acquired the business that sold it.
It says it doesnt know  the sales process for the previous business and isnt responsible  for 
the lack of documentation to show what happened. But says the copy of the credit 
agreement it has obtained shows PPI was optional and the cost was set out clearly.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
I can see Marshall has asked me to take into account that the sale of PPI to Mr H happened 
by a different  business that it subsequently acquired several years afterwards. And while  Im 
mindful of this, as Marshall  also says,  it is the correct respondent for the complaint. So Im 
satisfied this complaint  is set up against  the right business.
There might  be a lack of paperwork and documentation about the sale to show  what 
happened. But this isnt unusual for complaints of this nature and in and of itself doesnt 
mean the complaint cannot be considered or determined.  
Ref: DRN89246232My consideration of this complaint, as I said above,  is based on what  evidence there is 
available to help me determine what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I can see that neither  Mr H nor Marshall can say whether advice and a recommendation 
were given to take out PPI. The adjudicator concluded that it was likely  an advised sale. And 
having carefully considered this matter, I think it is more likely than not that Mr H was 
advised and recommended  to take out PPI. I say this because I dont think it was unusual for 
businesses like Marshall to sell PPI on an advised  basis around the time in question. And Im 
mindful that on the copy of the credit  agreement that is available  it says about PPI: The 
recommended insurance is optional.
While not conclusive,  I think  the word  recommended  is relevant here because  it suggests, 
more likely than not, that advice  and a recommendation to take out the cover was given to 
Mr H. Why else would  the word  recommended be used here?
So overall, I think on balance this was an advised sale.  So this means  Marshall  had to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for Mr Hs needs and circumstances at the time by advising  
with reasonable  care and skill. And it had to give Mr H enough  clear  and timely information 
about the recommended policy so he could decide if he wanted to accept it or not.
In response to the adjudicators opinion,  Marshall  point out that the credit  agreement says 
the insurance was optional  and that the costs of cover were  set out clearly. And I dont 
necessarily disagree with this. But this isnt the issue that I want  to address here  I want to 
address the matter of whether the recommendation for PPI was suitable  or appropriate  for 
Mr H at the time.
And having done so, Im not persuaded that it was. 
Ive already said that other than the credit agreement theres  no other paperwork available  
from the time. And as Marshall cant say what the sales process looked like theres no 
evidence to show me what steps,  if any, Marshall took to ensure the PPI cover  it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr H and why it was recommended. But Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time are known as are the details of his borrowing.
Mr Hs circumstances reveal he was single and he had no financial dependants.  In addition 
the borrowing  Mr H took out was only over a term of three years,  which in my view can 
reasonably be described as short- term. Im also mindful that given the short term nature of 
the loan and Mr Hs age, I find it unlikely he wouldve thought that he would contract  a critical 
illness during  this period. It also strikes  me that a single premium policy costing around £700 
in total for this type of cover over this short term was an expensive  way to provide protection.  
I think this was something the adviser should have considered too.
Ref: DRN89246233In light of the above, it is therefore difficult for me to see that in Mr Hs individual  
circumstances at the time, he fairly  and reasonably had a need for the type of PPI policy sold 
and at that cost.  In the event of his death  he didnt  have  any financial dependants  to protect 
against leaving an outstanding debt  there  was nobody close  to and/or reliant  on him that 
stood to lose out financially from his death. And as Ive already said, given his age and the 
short-term nature of the borrowing I dont think Mr H would  have  thought the risk of him 
contracting a critical illness over the term was a risk he reasonably needed or would want to 
protect against.
I accept its possible that Mr Hs circumstances  might  or were likely to change in the 
immediate future and this was considered  by the adviser in making the recommendation. But 
Ive not seen anything to suggest this was more  likely than not the case  and that the reason 
for the recommendation was to cater for Mr Hs pending change in circumstances,  which 
would indicate  he had a need for cover. 
So overall and having carefully considered  all of the evidence available to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I find that the recommendation 
made to Mr H to take out PPI was unsuitable based  on his particular circumstances at the 
time. I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Marshall  to have recommended  it to him.
It is therefore necessary  for me to go and consider if, and to what extent, Mr H has lost out 
as a result. And having done so Ive decided  Mr H has suffered loss because  I think he 
would have relied on the advice he was being given.  And so I find it unlikely that he would 
still have gone  ahead  with the policy if hed been  properly advised  and informed and told he 
didnt have a need for cover. Mr H therefore needs  to be fairly compensated for his loss.
putting things right
Mr H borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve - my understanding is that Mr H repaid the loan before the end of the term. So Mr H 
needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Marshall  should:
Work  out and pay Mr H the difference between  what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr H the difference between  what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr H paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Marshall can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Marshall to take off tax from this interest.  Marshall  must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN89246234my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr H has lost out as a result of taking 
out PPI with his loan,  so I make an award  in his favour. Marshall Of Scunthorpe  Limited 
should pay Mr H fair compensation as Ive detailed  above. I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8924623