K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains, through his representative,  that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his 
account and placed a marker with the fraud  prevention  agency,  Cifas.
background
Mr H had an account with NatWest. In early  2018, a series of payments came into his 
account.
NatWest received reports that Mr H may not have been entitled  to the payments. So 
NatWest asked Mr H about them. Mr H said they were from a fitness business he had 
started. More payments  came in and NatWest, by then,  not content  with Mr Hs explanation, 
closed his account and placed  a marker  against  his name with the fraud  prevention agency, 
Cifas.
Once Mr H realised this, he appealed  to NatWest to reconsider their decision. This was 
because he wanted  to explain matters and provide evidence to NatWest. He showed  them  a 
number of messages  (on his phone)  which showed that he had responded to an advert on 
social media. The advert was offering money  to people who only needed to have  money 
paid into their accounts for which they would receive a fee. 
He said that although he had had some concerns he had been reassured by his contacts 
that everything was fine. Hed been told the money was from an investment scheme  and the 
method of using different accounts  was an efficient way of distributing profits. As a result, he 
did not think he was doing anything wrong.
NatWest did not think  that evidence was enough  for them to change their minds.  So Mr H 
brought his complaint to this service. 
He told us that he had actually been  to a bank  branch to ask about the legality of trading. He 
said he showed a member of staff the messages on his phone, and the member of staff had 
said it all looked good to go. He further pointed out that, after the event, he had contacted 
the police  to provide them  with the evidence  he had provided to the bank. He did not say 
what the outcome  of that was.
The adjudicator considering the complaint thought that on the information she had seen, 
NatWest had treated  Mr H fairly and would not be asking them to do anything  further.
Mr H wanted and ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I also think that NatWest  have treated Mr H fairly. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that the reports  which NatWest received gave rise to the necessity to check  with 
Mr H why certain payments had been credited to his account.
Ref: DRN86623202Looking at the evidence Mr H provided, after his account had been closed, I can see that the 
screen shots of the dealings Mr H said he had with his contacts in the scheme are all 
undated and it is not clear  that the screenshots are from his phone, when they were made, 
nor who they were with.
There are some pictures of a trading platform,  but they do not appear to bear any relation to 
the money coming into Mr Hs account   with reference to the frequency,  pattern, nor the 
originating accounts of the funds.
Nevertheless, Mr H said he sought and received solace from his contacts that the scheme  
was lawful. Mr H has emphasised to us that his concerns about the scheme  were  allayed by 
the answers to his questions. Added to this, he was comforted by a bank branch staff 
member who said it looked good to go. 
There are a number of things, which arise  from this:
1)Mr H has not provided us with specific details about the person at the bank he said 
he spoke to, nor when, nor exactly what he asked.  Even  if the conversation took 
place, I find it highly  unlikely a member of branch staff would sanction his bank 
account being used in the way it was.
2)If Mr H did have his fears allayed, it is completely at odds with the explanations he 
gave to NatWest when they asked him about  the payments  prior to them  closing his 
account. There was no need for him to have said they were from a fitness business 
he had just started.  It was both an unnecessary explanation (on his own case)  and, in 
any event, was completely untrue.
NatWest did the right thing by asking him about  the payments.  They gave him three 
opportunities to explain, which I think was fair. They gave  him the opportunity  to provide 
evidence, which he had offered to provide. Inevitably, Mr H was unable  to provide the 
evidence he said he would because his explanations were not truthful.
I think, therefore, that NatWest were justified in closing  Mr Hs account and placing the 
marker at Cifas. They had sufficient,  clear, information to do so, and there were reasonable 
grounds to believe  that a fraud had been  committed.
Having reviewed the evidence Mr H did provide to the bank after the closure, I also think that 
it was fair and reasonable of NatWest  not to change their minds. 
Ive taken into account that Mr H provided  some information that he had a personal 
motivation for earning extra money.  And he had let the police know after the event. But Im 
afraid I cannot apply  as much weight to those  factors as Mr H would like. Mr H has provided 
only very limited information  about  those two factors, so Im afraid  that they do not outweigh 
the evidence supporting  NatWest actions both in the first instance and their later refusal  to 
reverse their decision.
As a result, I think NatWest have treated Mr H fairly and it would not be fair or reasonable for 
me to tell them to do something differently. 
Ref: DRN86623203my final decision
For the reasons  set out, I do not uphold this complaint and I do not require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8662320