K820x#14complaint
Mrs Os complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  concerns  information  it added to her 
credit file. 
background
Mrs O had a current account  and credit card account with Lloyds. In around 2012  she fell 
into financial  difficulties, which culminated in Lloyds defaulting her current account. In 
respect of her credit card account,  it noted  late payment markers for 2013/14, and recorded 
the account as settled  in July 2018.
This complaint was originally about what Lloyds  had done with both accounts. But after our 
services involvement, its been agreed that the redress from Lloyds in respect of the current 
account is fair  which was to backdate the default  to 2012, refund interest and charges, and 
pay £150 compensation for not defaulting  sooner.
But Mrs O remained  unhappy about what  Lloyds  had done with her credit card account. She 
said that her late payments were historic, going back in 2013-14, and that had they been 
reported at the time theyd no longer appear  on her credit file. Instead, she says that as the 
information was added  in July 2018, it would remain on her file for six years until July 2024, 
which was detrimental  to her and her credit rating.
She wanted the adverse  entries to be backdated, and for a further  compensation payment 
for the damage  and worry Lloyds actions had caused her.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters. She agreed  that Lloyds offer of redress  for the current 
account was fair. And in respect  of the credit card account, she didnt think Lloyds had made 
a mistake in how it had reported  matters on her credit file. 
Mrs O didnt agree. She accepted what had been  done to resolve her complaint about  the 
current account, but still felt the late payment markers for her credit card account had 
adversely affected  her credit file, and would be reported until 2024,  which  she didnt think  
was fair. So she asked for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant fairly ask Lloyds to do 
anything more to resolve  matters.
I know Mrs O will be disappointed  by my decision, so Id like to explain why I think its fair to 
both parties.
Lloyds has a duty, along with all providers  of credit, to report accurately the manner in which 
a customer manages their accounts.  This information allows other  lenders to lend 
responsibility and manage  risk appropriately. Mrs O concedes that she did make some late 
payments to her credit card account  from Nov 2013  to May 2014, and doesnt appear to 
have an issue with the markers themselves  appearing. However, shes unhappy  that the 
Ref: DRN81520852account itself hasnt dropped off her credit  file, as six years have nearly passed since  the 
late payments were made.
The reason  for this is that the credit card account  wasnt settled until July 2018. At that point, 
it was recorded  on her file as settled, and this information will remain there until July 2024, 
when it then drops off. As each month passes, the historical information going back  six years 
is updated and the oldest  information drops  off. But this does  mean that the settling  of the 
account itself will show for six years from July 2018. And from November 2019 to May 2020  
the late payment  markers should drop off. 
I cant therefore say that Lloyds  has made a mistake  in how its reported Mrs Os credit  card 
account.
I do suspect theres been some confusion at points between the two accounts, with Mrs O 
believing that Lloyds told her on the phone that it would be backdating  the credit  file 
reporting on her credit  card account too. But theres no evidence that it did. 
Mrs O also appears  to argue that after Lloyds refund of interest and charges on her current  
account (which should  have  been defaulted in 2012,  and had a knock-on effect  on the rest of 
her finances  until this was corrected)  she wouldnt have been in credit card debt. But Im not 
convinced with this argument. I think what Lloyds has reported about the management of the 
credit card account is true and accurate. 
Overall, Im pleased to see that Lloyds has taken remedial action on Mrs Os current 
account; backdating the default, refunding interest  and charges, and paying £150  
compensation for the detriment shes suffered. I know Mrs O thinks this should  be more  
because of what shes been through; the effect on her health; and that if she hadnt 
complained about Lloyds  shed still be suffering  from its mistakes. And while I dont seek  to 
diminish her strength  of feeling, and what shes been through,  I think this is a fair and 
proportionate resolution to her complaint It wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not asking Lloyds Bank Plc to take any further steps  to resolve  
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8152085