K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the repairs Admiral  Insurance Company Limited made to her car 
under her motor insurance policy. She wants these rectified at a garage of her choice.
background
Miss Ks car was taken for repairs by Admiral following an accident.  But Miss K was unhappy  
with the repairs.  Admiral instructed an independent assessor to inspect the car. Based on his 
report, it agreed to rectify some of these concerns and offered Miss K £225 compensation 
for her trouble and upset.  But Miss K thought her car had been further damaged by the 
repairers. She thought this was confirmed  by the vehicle appraisal document  completed  by 
the repairers when  the car was first collected.  Miss K also had her car inspected by her own 
garage and she said it confirmed that the approved repairers had caused damage.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Admiral 
had reasonably agreed to rectify  most of the issues of concern. This left two points in 
dispute. Miss K said these  werent  picked up as in need of repair by a vehicle appraisal  
document completed before the repairs. But the investigator thought  an independent  
assessors report was more detailed and persuasive. This said that the two points were pre-
existing and unrelated to the repairs. So he thought Admiral need do nothing further.
Miss K thought the vehicle  appraisal  document described the cars condition  when  it was 
taken for repairs and the two issues of concern werent then noted. She asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. So its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss K feels disappointed and frustrated with how the repairs were 
made to her car. She said this was her first claim after being with Admiral for some  years,  
and she expected better service. But when the car was returned to her, Miss K had to raise  a 
number of points  for rectification. And then she found further  concerns.  
When a consumer is unhappy with the quality of repairs to their car, we think  an independent  
assessor should be appointed to review the points in dispute.  I can see that Admiral  did this. 
Miss K said she doubted his independence as he appeared to be known to the approved 
repairer. But I havent seen any evidence that this affected his professional opinion.
Admiral agreed that Miss K could  have the rectification work listed  on the independent 
assessors report completed at garage of her choice,  after providing an estimate for its 
approval. As far as I can see, this was done. 
Whats left for me to consider are the two remaining areas of damage Admiral  declined to 
repair and the impact its poor service had on Miss K. Miss K said the repairing garage had 
damaged her petrol cap cover and her alloy wheels. 
Ref: DRN86225482Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The independent assessor said the damage  to the alloys was pre-existing as they had been  
refurbished and the damage  was below the paint  surface. It said the ill-fitting petrol cap 
cover wasnt  related to the repairs and so was pre-existing. 
Miss Ks own garage provided an estimate for the outstanding repairs. But whilst this listed  
the two areas of concern,  it didnt comment on their cause. So I dont think this provides 
further evidence  that challenges  the independent assessors opinion.
Miss K said this damage  hadnt  been  identified by the approved repairer  in its vehicle 
appraisal document when the car was first collected and before repairs were  started. She 
thought this showed that the repairer  had caused  the damage. She also thought that as the 
repairer had added petrol to the car, it had opportunity  to damage the cover.  
But I dont agree. I think the vehicle appraisal document provides an overview of the cars 
condition. But it isnt detailed. I think the independent assessor,  a qualified expert engineer,  
has provided an opinion  on the cause of the damage to the alloy wheels and the petrol cap 
cover. Admiral invited  Miss K to provide expert  engineering evidence that showed that this 
damage wasnt pre-existing. But I cant see that shes done this. 
So, in the absence of further expert  evidence, I think  Admiral could reasonably rely on the 
evidence provided  by the independent assessor. Therefore I think  its justified its decision 
not to pay for the repairs to the alloys or the petrol  cap cover.  
But Miss K was caused considerable stress  and inconvenience  in having to argue to get her 
cars repairs rectified. Admiral offered her £225  compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.  I dont require Admiral to do 
anything further.  
Ref: DRN86225483my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8622548