K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited wrongly settled against her a claim made  by 
another driver  after an accident. She thinks it gave her poor service in general.
background
Ms E was reversing out of her driveway  across  the pavement onto a busy  road.  She was 
checking oncoming traffic to her left, where  her view was partially obscured by a tree and 
parked cars. Ms E says as the back of her car reached the road, it impacted with the side of 
another car. She says the driver told her hed reversed into the main  road from a side road to 
the right hand  side of her garden. Ms E says she didnt expect that to happen.  She also said 
the driver  had a squirrel on his shoulder, which must have distracted him when driving.
Aviva said the other driver had reported  the incident  to it, and that Ms E should have done 
so. It said hed told it his car was stationary  at the time of the impact.  He said he was in the 
process of parking in a space to the left of Ms Es driveway and wanted to line the car up 
better. Aviva said he was established on the main road. As Ms E was reversing onto that 
road, she had a greater  duty of care. It apologised for its poor communication with Ms E and 
for a delay in responding to her email. It offered her £75 compensation for that.
One of our investigators  reviewed Ms Es complaint. He said the damage to the other  car 
was to its front, so as the rest of the car had gone  past Ms Es driveway it should have been 
visible to her. He said Ms E had pointed out that the Highway Code said drivers shouldnt  
reverse from a side road into a main road. But there  was no evidence  that the other driver 
did that. He agreed  with Ms E that Aviva should  have commented  on the squirrel, but he said 
that it wouldnt have  changed the outcome. He also noted that Ms E objected  to the other  
driver making  a claim directly on her policy. He said it wasnt  wrong for Aviva  to deal with his 
claim that way. And he thought the £75 compensation it had offered her was reasonable.
Ms E said Aviva should have investigated more.  She thought  it may have made  an age-
related judgement. She said her premium had risen as a result of a very minor contact with 
another car, which had caused  almost  no damage  to her car. She said the presence of a 
wild animal  in the other car had been ignored.  As there was no agreement, the complaint 
was passed to me for review.      
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
We dont decide  which party  was to blame  for an accident. We consider whether it was 
reasonable for the insurer to settle  the claim  as it did given the details it had.
Aviva didnt think the other driver  could  be held at fault, mostly because he was established 
on the main road at the time. Regardless of how he got there, his car was across Ms Es 
path as she reversed,  so Aviva thought she should have seen it. I cant see what  further 
investigation Aviva  could have carried out. Ms E thinks the scene of the accident  should 
have been visited.  But I dont think it was unreasonable  for Aviva to decide  that wasnt 
necessary in the circumstances. I think Ms Es description of the area was clear enough.  
Ref: DRN88204222I dont think its surprising  that the other driver made  no reference to a squirrel  being  in his 
car. As Ms E has said, thats a highly unusual circumstance. The problem is that - apart  from 
Ms Es account - theres no evidence  of a squirrel being present, or of it distracting the other  
driver. From his account, he wasnt distracted. He had stopped to line his car up in a better  
parking position.  So hes likely to have been looking behind  him and to his right, at a parked 
car and moving  traffic - not at the pavement to his left, which Ms E reversed across. 
Only Ms E and the other driver know for sure what happened on the day of the accident. 
Ms E says shes a careful driver. She believes the other driver  must have reversed very 
quickly round the corner right next to her driveway.  But she isnt able to show  thats  what 
happened. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to settle the claim as it did. It didnt 
think it could argue successfully that the other driver was even partly at fault.   
I think the other driver  was entitled  to report the claim to Aviva and to claim on Ms Es policy.  
Hed already contacted  his own insurer. Given the facts he outlined, it looked as though  he 
wasnt at fault for the accident. Its likely that the other insurer  advised him that this option 
was open to him. I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in the way it dealt with his claim. 
Aviva didnt comment on Ms Es increased  premiums, or the possibility of it having made an 
age-related judgement when it dealt  with the claim. It isnt clear if she raised  either of these 
issues with Aviva at that time. It seems unlikely,  as she didnt  query it not addressing them.  
I think Aviva  seems to have based  its liability decision on the circumstances around  the 
accident. As Ms E mentioned the increase in premium  to us, we asked Aviva about it. As 
expected, it said the accident and the loss of Ms Es no claims discount would have played a 
large part in that. Numerous  other valid factors could also have contributed to it. So although 
Ms Es unhappy about facing a financial penalty,  I dont think theres anything to show  that 
its due to a fault on Avivas part.      
Aviva accepted that its contact with Ms E should have been better. But I think  its offer of 
compensation for that was fair. As I think Aviva acted reasonably in relation to that and in the 
rest of its claims handling, I cant uphold  Ms Es complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Ms E to accept or reject  my decision before 27 December  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8820422