K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs T say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them  PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And Santander told us that the 
commission for Mr and Mrs Ts PPI was less than 50% of what they paid, so it doesnt need  
to pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt  raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs T about the commission it received - so Santander doesnt need  to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below.
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Santander has provided us with a copy  of Mr 
and Mrs Ts mortgage  application  from the time.  Looking at this I can see there is a tick 
in a box to indicate  that Mr T required cover  the second applicant box is unticked.
Ref: DRN83304472I can see that Mr and Mrs T have said they ticked lots of boxes during the mortgage 
application meeting without fully understanding the implications of everything they were 
doing. They  also say they werent openly  looking to take out PPI.
I accept the mortgage  application process  is one of the most  complex  financial 
transactions that most  people  undertake. But in this case, PPI was in my view a clear 
and distinct part of the mortgage  application Mr and Mrs T completed. This section was 
titled Redundancy, Accident and Sickness Protection which was in bold and in a large 
font. It also set out a brief outline  of the nature of the cover being offered. Because  of this 
I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs T what they were being asked about and 
what they agreed to.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs T chose to take out PPI and they 
likely did so without undue pressure.  
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt receive  advice. But Santander says it recommended  the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs T. This means  it had to check that the PPI was right for them. And the 
evidence about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them. For example  Mr T as the sole policyholder  
was eligible for the cover  and although  they had existing means in the form of some sick 
pay and redundancy pay they still seem to have  had a need  for cover.  I say this because  
the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months which  was longer than Mr Ts sick 
pay would have  lasted  and his statutory redundancy pay was less than 24 months 
income. Im mindful too that the policy was protecting Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage 
payments and so ultimately their home.
There was nothing about Mr Ts employment  or occupation, which would have made  it 
difficult for them to claim. And they havent  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect Mr Ts ability to claim.  There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems. So I think  the policy  wouldve 
proved useful to them  had the insured risks become a reality.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that while they recognise  the value, they say it was additional  
value they didnt need at the time, which is supported by their decision to cancel the 
policy. But as I have  concluded above,  I think they did have a need  for the policy  given 
their circumstances at the time of the sale  so I dont think  it was wrong  for Santander to 
have recommended it to them. And it wasnt until 2002, some  10 years  later,  that Mr and 
Mrs T cancelled the policy. And this could have been for many  reasons including a 
change in circumstances. But it is Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of the sale 
that I have  considered and based  my conclusions on.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs T as I concluded  above,  or too 
dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were  buying from the information they 
were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would  have been  
useful for them  if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs T 
would have likely declined the cover had Santander done anything  more.
Ref: DRN83304473Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could  
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need  to disclose the commission  it received, 
so Santander  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs T paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs T should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs T about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund  of all the premiums they paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN83304474But in this case, Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ts PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Santander has worked 
this out and based on what  weve seen,  Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Ts 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Santander  needed to tell Mr and Mrs T about the commission. So it follows  that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs T unfairly. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs T back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Santander  UK Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8330447