K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that a claim on their travel insurance  policy  was declined.  Their 
insurer is part of the Society of Lloyds. 
background
Mr and Mrs M went on a four month trip abroad including multiple destinations and a return  
to the UK on a cruise.
One of their internal flights was cancelled due to bad weather which meant  they missed their 
connections to a pre-booked  tour. They couldnt  cancel  their booked accommodation and 
transport, so they had to pay out again for revised  travel plans which  cost them  nearly 
£1,000.
Their claim was declined  as a cancelled flight that wasnt to or back from the UK wasnt  
covered by their policy.
Mr and Mrs M say they never  would  have bought this policy  if they had known that internal 
flights overseas werent covered. They feel this should have been pointed  out to them  when 
they bought the insurance over the phone.
Our investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain my reasons 
below. 
Firstly I would like to say that I do understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration  of not being 
covered by their insurance. When one of their flights was cancelled they had to re-arrange 
some of their plans - which I imagine would have been really  stressful  - and they had to pay 
out a lot of money for new accommodation and transport. And I can imagine their 
disappointment when they learned their losses werent covered by their insurance.
However, travel insurance policies  do not cover any eventuality. Insurers  are allowed to 
decide what risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents  form part of the 
insurance contract and sets out what is and isnt covered.
Having looked  at the policy document Im satisfied that the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim werent covered  by their policy. There is a section that deals with travel delays due to 
adverse weather conditions, but the policy does state that this applies to delays only at the 
final point of international departure from and to the United Kingdom. As Mr and Mrs Ms 
affected flight was an internal  flight abroad, this wasnt covered. Theres also no other 
section that their claim would fall under.
Mr and Mrs M say being covered for accommodation and flights  is an essential part of a 
travel insurance policy and it should have been  pointed out to them  on the phone that only 
Ref: DRN83054452the first flight from the UK and the return flight would have  been  covered. In their case  there 
wasnt even a return flight to the UK (as they were coming home on a cruise ship) and so 
they think the cover was even less useful. They say the call handler knew they were 
travelling to lots of different countries, so they should have realised covering internal flights  
would have been important to them. And if they had realised this was the case  they wouldnt 
have bought the policy.
I think its important to note that internal flights and accommodation are covered by the 
policy, for example  if the holiday had to be shortened or cancelled  due to either  Mr or Mrs M 
or a close  relative  in the UK falling seriously  ill or being injured, if either of their passports 
were stolen or lost or if they had to come home early due to a home emergency. But not 
everything is covered  in every circumstance and in Mr and Mrs Ms policy the internal flight  
wasnt insured against  travel delay (or cancellation of the flight) due to bad weather.  
Mr and Mrs M chose  their level of cover online and only bought  it over the phone because 
they had troubles completing their purchase  online. Ive listened to the various calls and 
throughout Mrs M was very clear on what policy she wanted.  At no point was a particular 
cover recommended  to her. The discussions focused on prices  and whether  particular  online 
quotes could be matched.  
In the last phone conversation the call handler  summarised the cover Mrs M had chosen (a 
single trip policy, the countries and dates  of travel and that she had declared all medical 
conditions for all travellers). Mrs M was then given  a short overview  of the benefit  limits  if the 
trip was cancelled or curtailed, the limit for medical  expenses and for baggage and the 
applicable excess. 
The insurer  needed  to give Mr and Mrs M clear, fair and non-misleading information about  
the policy, so they could  make an informed choice. This doesnt mean they had to explain 
the policy in detail over the phone and mention everything that wasnt  covered.  The call 
handler told Mrs M she would send over the policy documents  by email and that there was a 
14 day cooling off period during which she could check the cover and cancel it if she 
changed her mind.
It was up to Mr and Mrs M to make sure the policy covered everything they wanted  to be 
covered. And this includes carefully reading the policy  document. I appreciate  that Mr and 
Mrs M might not read policy  documents every day, but looking at the policy terms I think its 
clear that the cancellation of trip and curtailment sections dont cover delayed or cancelled 
flights due to bad weather.  And the travel delay section says:  
PLEASE NOTE:  
This section  applies  for delays only at the final point  of international departure from and to 
the United Kingdom.
I dont think this is misleading or unclear.  And if Mr and Mrs M didnt understand anything,  
the policy encouraged customers to contact  the insurer for any clarifications.
I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms situation, but in summary I cant agree that they were  
mis-sold this policy or that they were treated unfairly by their insurer.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN83054453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8305445