K820x#14complaint
X complains that TSB Bank plc caused  delays  closing its business account  and sent bank 
cards and documents by insecure means. X is represented by its director,  who Ill refer to as 
Mr M. Mr M asks that TSB closes Xs account and pays  compensation for the time hes 
spent chasing  it. 
background
X opened a business account with TSB in March  2018. It wanted  to open a savings account, 
but its application was delayed and then declined. Mr M wrote to TSB asking it to close Xs 
business account. He said he had to write  and contact TSB a number of times before it 
closed the account in October 2018. 
Mr M says TSB sent cards, PINs and chequebooks  in one large package,  together with 
items for other companies that hes a director of. He says this was a security risk.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said while TSB 
could have closed  the account  sooner  this hadnt  caused X any loss. The investigator said it 
was unlikely TSB sent cards, PINs  and other items in one large package as they were  sent 
from different locations.
X didnt  agree. Mr M said hed spent considerable time sorting the matter  out. Mr M didnt 
believe TSB hadnt received his letters. And he said TSBs complaint handling was poor and 
it chose not to log his complaints.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr M intended to open a business account  and savings  account, but Xs application  for a 
savings account  was delayed and then declined. Mr M decided to close  Xs business 
account. He says he spent considerable time writing and contacting  TSB about this, before it 
closed Xs business  account in October  2018. 
Mr M had called TSB on 14 August 2018 to complain that the account  hadnt been closed. 
TSB logged  the complaint but didnt investigate it or respond to Mr M. Mr M called again on 
17 October, saying hed now written to TSB numerous times asking for the account to be 
closed. 
TSB says it has no record of receiving Mr Ms letters. Mr M says he didnt  keep copies of the 
letters. This doesnt mean Mr M didnt send the letters. Nonetheless, I have no evidence  that 
the letters did arrive with TSB. I cant fairly say TSB made an error when it failed to deal with 
the contents of letters  that it didnt receive. 
Nonetheless, TSB was aware from Mr Ms call in August that he wanted  to close  Xs 
account. It might have closed Xs account sooner if it had looked into Mr Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN80636572Mr M says account opening information, paying  in book, card,  PIN and cheque  book arrived  
in the same package, together with documents related  to other  companies  that hes a 
director of. I appreciate its now difficult for Mr M to provide evidence that all these items 
arrived together in one parcel. 
TSB says it isnt its process  to send a card and PIN in the same envelope. Theyre  sent on 
different days so that they dont arrive together. And it says theyre dispatched  from different 
locations. Mr M says TSB sent the items  together as it wanted to get it all done before  its IT 
upgrade. But Id have thought arranging to send  items usually dispatched from different 
locations together, in a way thats  different from its usual  process,  would likely have been 
more difficult and time consuming for TSB than following  its usual process. On balance,  I 
think its unlikely TSB sent all of these  items  in one package.
Mr M has raised concerns  about TSBs complaint  handling. I appreciate his frustration. But 
as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity our rules dont allow  me to look into Mr Ms 
concerns. Mr M says theres a deliberate policy at TSB not to log complaints. If he remains  
concerned about  this, he can consider  contacting the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
what happens now?
The complainant here is X. So I have to consider what  effect this matter has had on X. 
Theres no evidence of financial loss. I think Xs director  Mr M  was caused 
inconvenience in having to contact  TSB again  about closing the account despite making a 
complaint on 14 August  2018. But I cant see that the time this would have taken would have  
impacted on Xs business, especially as Mr M says he dealt with the matter during his lunch 
breaks. In the circumstances,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to require TSB to pay 
compensation to X. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8063657