K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building  Society  didnt properly close his mortgage account  
when it was paid off, leading to him being refused credit elsewhere.
background
Mr F had a mortgage with Nationwide. It was made  up of a main account,  with additional 
sub-accounts representing  further borrowing hed taken in the past. The main  account came 
to the end of its term a few months before the sub-accounts, so Nationwide  couldnt close  
the account while balances were outstanding.
Nationwide therefore  left the main  account  open  with a nil balance until the sub-accounts 
were paid off too. Unfortunately, when the sub-accounts were paid off a few months later, 
Nationwide didnt close the main account. 
A few months later, Mr F applied for credit  elsewhere. It was refused, and so Mr F checked  
his credit record. He found that the Nationwide mortgage was still open  and still being 
reported. So he complained. 
Nationwide agreed  that it hadnt  closed the account  properly. It closed the accounts. But 
Mr F noticed that it still hadnt  done so correctly,  so complained again. Nationwide then 
backdated the changes to the correct dates and amended Mr Fs credit  file. It offered £200 
compensation.
Our investigator thought this was a fair offer, but Mr F didnt agree, and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing that Nationwide made this mistake. As Mr F says, it should be a simple  
administrative matter to close  an account and report its closure to the credit  reference 
agencies.
However, Nationwide now says its put the record right. Mr F hasnt disagreed,  and hasnt 
provided a copy of his credit file showing incorrect entries. The remaining issue in this case 
is what else Nationwide needs  to do to put matters right.
Mr F says he was refused  credit  elsewhere.  He wanted to take out a large personal loan to 
buy a motorhome. I cant say that the refusal of credit was solely because of Nationwides 
mistake. Mr F says his credit file showed  a low credit  score,  which he blames on Nationwide.  
But his account  wasnt in arrears. It was showing as still open, but not as having  any missed 
payments. It simply hadnt been  marked as settled. And I bear in mind Mr F wanted to 
borrow a large sum of money, and lenders  take many factors  into account in making  their 
lending decisions.  So I cant say that Nationwide's error was the only reason Mr F didnt get 
the loan.
Ref: DRN85479332That said,  it was a mistake.  And discovering  the mistake caused  Mr F considerable trouble 
and upset, in worrying about what had happened  and the inconvenience  of putting it right  
especially when Nationwide didnt resolve it the first time. Its offered £200 compensation, 
and apologised  for the mistake,  which I think is fair.
Mr F wants Nationwide to change its systems  to make sure this doesnt happen again. Its 
not for me to require  it to do that  and with any system, mistakes  will unfortunately happen 
from time to time. When they do, its important to put the right  as Nationwide,  belatedly, did 
in this case. But Nationwide is required by the regulators rules to learn from complaints, and 
so I hope it will take like Mr Fs experiences  into account when doing so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint because I think  Nationwide  Building 
Society has made a fair and reasonable offer of resolution.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8547933