K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading  as First Direct Direct) has worked 
out his loan.
background
Mr H said that hed taken  a loan out with First Direct  for £25,000 at 3.6% interest, which  
would take 84 payments  to repay.  He said that hed been paying the loan for three years,  
and hed also made two overpayments for £400 and £401. But he said that when he asked 
for a calculation of how the remaining amount is arrived at, he got two documents,  one listing  
his past payments and one containing information on his future payments. He said that he 
counted up and realised he was now being  asked to pay more  than 84 payments. And the 
interest rate he was being charged  was also wrong. Mr H thought  that he was being 
overcharged on his loan.
He said that First Direct had taken  over two weeks to get these  documents  to him, and he 
couldnt email First Direct to get it to sort this out. So he wanted our help.
First Direct  has shown  us a number of letters  that it has sent to Mr H. A letter  dated  8 May 
2018, shows 59 further payments due on his loan. The payments on that schedule start on 
Fri 28 April 2017, and run to February 2022. The original  term of this loan was to April 2022. 
First Direct  also wrote  to Mr H on 8 May, to say he had saved £166.29  in interest by making 
an early payment. That letter also says that Mr Hs partial repayment wont affect  the amount 
or the timing of future repayments, which does seem to contradict what the other letter  says.  
Its not clear why First Direct issued these two letters separately on the same  day. 
First Direct  said it had paid Mr H £50 for a delay in replying to a secure message. It said it 
would usually expect  to reply to those within 48 hours, but in this case  it took ten days. Aside  
from that, First Direct didnt think it had done anything wrong.
First Direct  said that the two documents that Mr H was comparing to get a total of 95 
payments, contained  payments which overlapped. It said it had provided a list of payments 
he had already made. That ended on 30 April 2018.  And it had sent him separately a future  
payments schedule. But that ran from 28 April 2017. First Direct said that this still worked out 
at 84 payments. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she had checked, and the 
combined number  of payments that Mr H was scheduled to make  was 84, as set out in the 
original agreement. She couldnt find evidence of an error in First Directs settlement figure 
or the information it had given Mr H on the interest  he had saved through  his partial  early  
repayment. So our investigator didnt think that First Direct had done anything  wrong.
Mr H replied to say that the loan calculations that First Direct  had sent him must  be wrong. 
He said that First Direct was still calculating  his loan as if he had to pay the original total that 
it had worked out, for his loan and interest,  as it ran over the original term. So he said that 
First Direct  wasnt going to give him any credit for his overpayments, and wasnt going to 
reduce the interest payable. Mr H said that hed worked this out a number of times, and he 
was sure that First Direct was wrong.  He wanted our service  to consider these calculations, 
and to do more  to stand up for him.
Ref: DRN87355392Because Mr H didnt agree with our investigator,  the case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr H has sent our service a number of calculations  of how he thinks this loan should 
operate. I said I wasnt able to respond in detail  on those calculations. Its not the role of 
this service to audit Mr Hs loan for him. But I had considered the evidence that First 
Direct has supplied.  And I couldnt see anything to make  me think that First Direct is 
overcharging Mr H for his loan. 
-I did think though  that there had been a problem. I thought that had arisen  because  First 
Direct has done a rather poor job of explaining  to Mr H what it is doing with his loan. I 
thought that a substantial amount of the confusion in this case is because of that. I said I 
would explain why I thought that.
-Mr H has a right to pay off his loan early,  in full, or to make partial overpayments to his 
loan. The loan agreement  often sets out what will happen if someone pays off part of 
their loan.  If it doesnt, our service  would usually expect the lender to tell the borrower 
what will happen.
-In this case, First Direct  has commented that its loan agreement form gives  information  
re what will happen if [Mr H] settles  the loan early . It also said that the wording is very 
vague  as the settlement figure provided  depends on so many  factors, how far into the 
loan repayment  agreement he is etc..  Theres  nothing wrong with First Direct not setting 
out, as part of the loan agreement, the detail of what can happen in every  possible 
example of early  settlement. But this approach does mean that First Direct has a 
responsibility to explain  to Mr H whats going  to happen in the circumstances he finds 
himself in. And I didnt  think  it had done that well at all.
-Mr Hs loan agreement doesnt say whether a partial repayment will reduce the monthly  
rate, or whether  it will reduce the term. 
-I needed, in this case, to consider quite a number of different pieces of correspondence 
to work out what First Direct is doing with Mr Hs loan. Having done that, I could tell Mr H 
that, as I understood it, First Direct  was saying that his monthly repayment always stays 
at the original amount of £336.92, that he agreed  to when he took out the loan. 
-First Direct also doesnt seem to be clear  about  whether  it will work out a revised  number 
of payments for him. It has sent him letters  which seem  to me to say it wont  do that, but 
it has also provided him with a schedule of future payments,  which  does do that.
-What we do know is that each time Mr H makes a payment, including  a partial  
overpayment, First Direct takes that off the total balance he owes  on his loan. Each 
payment, or partial overpayment,  brings  down  the total amount he owes. 
-So if Mr H makes overpayments (as he has) he wont still have to pay this loan until April 
2022, as he originally agreed. On the basis of the overpayments  he has made  so far, this 
loan will be paid off on February  2022, with a final payment of just over £80. But the 
Ref: DRN87355393original agreement was based on interest being  charged over the full term of the loan. So 
when Mr H has finished paying this loan off, First Direct will then recheck  Mr Hs loan, 
and make sure it hasnt charged  him too much interest. If it has, hell get that back. 
-I didnt think that there was anything wrong  with First Direct  Managing Mr Hs loan in this 
way. But Id explained that I thought it was First Directs  responsibility  to tell Mr H clearly 
how his loan works. And I didnt  think it had done that.
-Id seen the letters that First Direct has written to Mr H. Those didnt  seem  to me to set 
out clearly what is happening on Mr Hs account.  
-For instance, on one of those letters, First Direct has told Mr H that he still has to make 
84 payments, as originally envisaged.  But it doesnt ever seem to have explained to him 
why that is. Id looked at his payments to date, and I could see that each of Mr Hs two 
overpayments was a little more than the amount of his monthly payment. So those two 
overpayments have  got rid of two of the original payments on his loan schedule, and 
reduced a third down  to just over £80. 
-It was just coincidence that Mr H still has to make 84 payments in total. If his two 
overpayments had been larger, they wouldve got rid of more  of the original payments on 
his schedule, and he wouldnt have to make 84 payments  in total.
-Mr Hs total loan balance has been  reduced  by these overpayment amounts. Those 
reductions mean that his loan will be repaid  two months earlier than the original  
schedule. And (assuming he makes no further overpayments) his last payment is only 
going to be just over £80.
-Id also seen the secure messages  which Mr H sent to First Direct, and its replies. It 
seemed as if Mr H sent a number of messages asking clear  questions about his account, 
and First Direct generally replied with a standard response, either setting out the early  
repayment amount,  or including one of a small number of pieces of standard text. It 
seemed to me as if First Direct  has failed,  on a number of occasions,  to provide Mr H 
with specific answers  to his specific questions. For example, on 25 April Mr H asked If I 
pay up half the loan amount,  will the monthly  account be reduced by half. If it is not 
reduced by half, can you clarify  why is that?
-All First Direct needed to tell Mr H in response to this was that no, monthly payments 
wouldnt reduce  by half. The amount of money he had to pay every  month  would stay the 
same, but the number of payments  he would have to make overall would go down, 
because his overpayment would mean  that his loan would be reduced to zero much 
earlier. 
-Instead, First Direct sent Mr H an amount he could pay to settle his loan in full. Then it 
messaged him again, separately, repeating previous advice which  says he has to keep 
making a monthly payment. This standard text doesnt actually tell Mr H that the amount  
of his monthly repayments  wont change as a result  of a partial overpayment.
-This wasnt  an isolated incident. There were  a number of instances where First Direct 
seemed to be replying  to Mr H using  standard text, rather  than answering his questions.
-I thought that First Direct had failed to explain this loan simply and clearly  to Mr H. And I 
thought this had caused him confusion, and concern, because he didnt think  that First 
Ref: DRN87355394Direct was calculating his loan properly.  Its also not allowed  him to plan his finances.  
And its meant that hes spent a lot of time asking  First Direct  what  has gone wrong. 
-For that reason,  I thought that First Direct  should pay Mr H some  compensation. I 
thought that £250  would be the right amount to make up for what First Direct has done  
wrong in this case.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
First Direct  didnt  reply. Mr H replied to object to what I had said.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr H said that Id got my facts wrong. He said that Id said that First Direct had told him in 
writing that the last payment date on his loan has changed from April 2022  to Feb 2022. He 
said that wasnt true. And he said that First Direct has also never  told him that the last 
payment on the new date (in February  2022) would be £80 pounds rather  than the usual  
amount of around  £336.
First Direct  set out a revised payment schedule in a letter to Mr H, which  runs up to February 
2022, and ends with a payment of about  £80. We know he got that letter,  because  he sent it 
to us. I do think that First Direct  couldve done  a much better job of explaining this to Mr H, 
and Ive awarded him compensation  for that.
Mr H said that Id said First Direct had paid him £50 pounds for the delay in replying to a 
secure message.  He said that wasnt true either. So if I was going to award  £250  now,  it 
should be £300 pounds because he didnt get the £50 pounds First Direct claimed it had 
paid him.
First Direct  has told us that it paid £50 into Mr Hs 1st Account, around the end of May 2018. 
I made  my decision on the basis that this payment has been made. Im happy to amend my 
decision so that Mr H is awarded a total of £300,  and to say that if First Direct has made this 
payment, as it told us, then it can take that amount into account. 
That means if First Direct did make this payment of £50 into Mr Hs account, it only has to 
pay £250 now. But if it didnt, it has to pay him £300.  
Mr H also said he disagreed with my statement that I hadnt seen anything that shows that 
First Direct  was overcharging him. He said that, based on his calculation, his last payment 
date should be in January  2022  and the last payment  would be about 50 pounds.  
I said in my decision that I wouldnt be able to audit  Mr Hs loan for him. I cant  provide a final 
figure for him at this point.
I also said that what First Direct had done was to add the interest  that Mr H would pay to his 
loan at the start. That gave a lump sum for him to pay back.  When he makes  an 
overpayment, First Direct is reducing  the lump sum by that amount. Thats how it has worked  
out that this loan will be paid off on February  2022, with a final payment of just over £80. But 
the original agreement was based  on interest being charged over the full term of the loan. 
And the loan isnt now going to run for the full term. So he might end up owing a bit less.
Ref: DRN87355395So Mr H might be right, and he may have to pay less on this loan. But First Direct has said 
that it will recheck this loan when Mr H gets to the end of it, and if hes overpaid,  hell get that 
money back. I still expect  that First Direct  will do that, and Mr H can review the figures then. I 
dont think that its unreasonable  for First Direct to manage this loan in this way.
Mr H said Id written  that even though he might pay the loan by half, the monthly repayment 
amount would not reduce  by half while keeping the length fixed.  He disagreed  with that. He 
said that contradicted  the present value calculation method. He said that if a sequence of 
monthly cash flow of amount X could be paid off by a full payment of value Y, then a 
sequence of monthly  cash flow of amount X over the same  length of time as the previous 
loan, could be paid off by a full payment of amount Y/2.
I didnt mean  to imply in my decision that it wasnt mathematically  possible to use an 
overpayment to reduce  a monthly payment. I simply said that this wasnt what  First Direct 
would do. Any overpayments  that Mr H makes wont be used to reduce his monthly payment 
amount. They  will be used  instead to reduce the number of monthly  payments he makes. 
Thats in line with his agreement with First Direct,  and theres  nothing  wrong with First Direct  
doing that.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct  Direct) must pay Mr H a 
total of £300 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. If HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct Direct) paid Mr H the sum of £50 that it said,  in its letter 
of 31 May 2018, that it had put into his account, then it can count that towards  this total of 
£300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8735539