K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about his ISA transfer  delays from third party  businesses  to the Bank  of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (the business). He says the delays have caused him a 
financial loss. 
He says the business has failed  to pay the lost interest and to write to him to confirm  that it 
would alter the effective  date of the opening  of his ISA so that it wouldnt affect him having 
access to the funds, without penalty,  within five years of opening. 
background 
The business upheld  the complaint. It said it could only transfer one ISA at a time, and 
unfortunately the first ISA from an overseas bank had difficulties. It had made some 
processing errors which added to the delays. The business has done a calculation  showing 
no loss, on the basis of interest  paid at the beginning which  would otherwise not have been 
paid, so it concluded Mr B was better  off. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business should write  to Mr B to confirm:  
oit has put him back in the position  he wouldve been in but for the errors.  
oit completed the request within 15 days from when the transfer request form 
was received. 
othe amount  of interest  paid,  how it was calculated and when it was paid. 
The business should re-send the letter  dated  29 June 2018, if it hasnt done so 
already. 
The business agreed to pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
caused for the service provided,  the delays and the business not sticking  to its 
promises but it should pay a total of £200. 
The business agreed but Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and maintains 
that hes suffered  a financial  loss. In response  to his points our adjudicator  made the 
following points:
The business maintains that its unable to add interest any earlier  than 11 June 2019  
because of the type of account Mr B has. 
The start date  owing to the difficulties  has been re-designated from April 2018  to 
June 2018, and this is why the account could  be closed in April 2023 and not be 
penalised  with an option to leave it running until June 2023.
Shes confirmed that the error  in June 2018 included interest for the delayed funds 
from the overseas  bank,  and interest  on the other funds in the account between  April 
and June. 
The business has provided calculations that showed Mr B is now in a better position. 
If the error hadnt occurred Mr Bs first interest  payment  wouldve  been  in April 2019.  
However Mr B received payment into the account in June 2018,  not only for the 
delayed funds from the overseas bank but also the funds within  the account. 
The business agreed but Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and maintains 
that hes suffered  a financial  loss. In summary  he said:
Ref: DRN80587392He doesnt  accept that hes better off but for the errors. 
Hes received the interest  payments  for the overseas transfer  but not the UK transfer 
which he maintains  the business hasnt made any loss adjustment  for. 
The business also hasnt written to him showing its calculations.
He feels the compensation is inadequate given the trouble and upset  hes suffered 
overall.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the compensation for trouble  and 
upset is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The business quite  rightly upholds the complaint,  and concedes  that it was responsible  for 
processing errors. It also accepts that it didnt provide Mr B with information that it said it 
would, when it said it would.  
Because the first ISA from an overseas bank unfortunately underwent  some  difficulties, and 
the business could only deal with one ISA at a time,  I think  this is whats  likely to have had a 
knock on effect on the other ISA. 
I note that when the complaint was referred  to me Mr B was still waiting for the interest 
payment from the second ISA transfer. But I understand the business  is only able to pay on 
the yearly anniversary  of when the interest is payable. So I dont think the business has 
deliberately delayed matters to cause  Mr B further anguish.  
That said I think it couldve done more  to manage his expectations and explain the situation 
to him with greater clarity and transparency rather than make undertakings it wouldnt be 
able to keep. So, I think an additional  £100 compensation  in total £200  as suggested by 
the adjudicator  for the distress and inconvenience caused including for the difficulties Mr B 
has experienced in trying  to get hold of someone to try and resolve his issues, is fair and 
reasonable.  
If the business hasnt provided calculations that are easy to understand I think  it should do 
that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I think  Bank  of Scotland plc should  
pay Mr B £200 compensation for trouble  and upset. 
It should also pay the interest  on the second ISA transfer it hasnt already paid and provide a 
breakdown of the calculations in a way that is understandable to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN80587393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8058739