K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  in 2002.
background
The MPPI policy was sold as part of a Total Mortgage Payment  Protection  policy  (TMPP).    
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes MPPI together with other  
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  The individual  elements  of the 
cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Mr and Mrs W were only sold the MPPI element of the TMPP. The MPPI covered only       
Mrs W against accident, sickness  and unemployment. If shed made a successful claim, the 
MPPI policy wouldve  covered Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage repayments for up to 24 months.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold 16 years ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mr and Mrs W nor Halifax 
have copies of all the paperwork completed  at the time. I also have to take into account that 
memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, on what I think  is 
most likely to have happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies in branches  
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  the paperwork  
in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy  was optional and they would have 
been asked for their consent to the cover.
So taking everything into account I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs W were  told they had a 
choice about whether  to buy the policy or not, and they chose to take it.
Halifax says its adviser  wouldve recommended  that Mr and Mrs W buy the policy. So Halifax 
had a duty to make  sure it was right for them. And from what Ive seen I think it was.
Mrs W was the person covered by the policy and she seems to have been eligible for the 
policy. She wasnt affected by anything the policy didnt cover such as medical conditions 
she was already aware of.
Mrs W has told us her she would have received sick pay from her employer if she was 
unable to work. But this particular  MPPI policy couldve  paid Mrs W a benefit for up to 
24 months. So if Mrs W had become unwell I think she wouldve found the policy  useful, 
particularly if Mrs W was unable to work for a prolonged spell.
Ref: DRN88157212The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 24 months if Mrs W lost her job. Although     
Mrs W may have got some redundancy pay if that happened, the policy  would allow her to 
use any redundancy pay towards other  living costs. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W, Halifax  also had to give them 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information  it shouldve. But from 
what Ive seen the policy was right for them and I think its likely they were interested in this 
type of cover. The cost of the policy seems to have been comparable to other, similar 
policies on the market at the time,  and Ive not seen  anything to make  me think the 
premiums were not affordable. So even if Halifax had given Mr and Mrs W clear  information 
about the policy and the premiums, I still think theyd have bought  it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs W 
chose to buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended a policy  that was right for them, and I dont 
think any clearer information wouldve made Mr and Mrs W change  their mind about  
applying for the policy. 
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W 
back some  of the cost of the MPPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If its not already  done so Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs W now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8815721