K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has charged  him an unfair level of interest  and 
charges on his account that has led to him being in a cycle of debt. 
background
Mr F says hes been charged interest  and charges by Barclays  over the last six years which 
have left him in a cycle of debt. He says Barclays hasnt given him any help which is contrary  
to the banking regulations  and the lending code. Mr F would like the charges refunded and 
interest paid to him on them  He says the charges  have caused financial hardship.
Barclays says the charges have been correctly  applied  in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says it has written to Mr F when such charges were applied  asking him to 
contact it and has provided information about organisations that could provide debt advice.  
Barclays says Mr F hasnt  contacted  it until this complaint.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt  think  Barclays  had acted  unfairly. 
The adjudicator thought  the interest and charges were  correctly applied in line with the 
account terms and conditions and didnt think there was any evidence  that a mistake had 
been made in calculating  them. The adjudicator thought Barclays  had acted  positively and 
sympathetically by providing Mr F with details of its specialised  department and details of 
other organisations that could help Mr F. And the adjudicator didnt think  Mr F had ever told 
Barclays about any financial  problems  until this complaint.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says Barclays hasnt made any meaningful attempt to 
help him and referring him to other  organisations isnt helpful.  He says Barclays  actions are 
contrary to the regulations  and that point  hasnt been looked at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr F will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions and Barclays  list of charges which I think  Mr 
F would have agreed to when the account was opened. Having done so Im satisfied  that 
Barclays is entitled to make the charges  it did. So I dont think  Barclays has made  a mistake 
here by applying the charges. I also agree with the adjudicator that Ive not seen any 
evidence that those charges have been  incorrectly calculated.
I appreciate that Mr F says the charges have caused him financial difficulties and I accept 
that banks and building societies should treat cases of such  difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But Ive looked through Barclays records and Im satisfied  that Mr F prior to 
this complaint hadnt told Barclays he was in such difficulties. So I cant  fairly  hold Barclays 
responsible in those circumstances for not trying to help Mr F if he hadnt been  in contact 
with it.
I can also see that Barclays sent Mr F a number  of letters about the charges and asked him 
to contact it about them or any financial  difficulties.  And it also provided information about  
other organisations that could provide help. So in those circumstances I dont think  Barclays  
could have done any more to help Mr F. I appreciate Mr F says that offer wasnt  helpful but 
Ref: DRN88842782Im satisfied for the reasons Ive explained that it was up to Mr F to tell Barclays  what  his 
position was.
I appreciate Mr F says Barclays has acted against  the regulations and that the adjudicator 
didnt investigate that. For the reasons Ive explained Ive not seen any evidence that the 
charges were incorrectly applied and I dont think Barclays could have known what  Mr Fs 
position was unless he told it. So I cant fairly  conclude Barclays  has acted contrary  to the 
lending code  or any other regulations. Barclays duty to treat customers in financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically is ongoing. And now that Barclays  knows  about Mr Fs 
difficulties I hope  both parties  can work  together and speak to each other so that Barclays  
can provide help and assistance
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  hasnt  made  a mistake  or acted unfairly.  So I cant  fairly  
order it to refund any charges over the last six years its applied  to Mr Fs account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8884278