K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds decision to decline his 
critical illness claim. Mr H took out the policy with an insurer Aviva  later took over,  but for the 
sake of ease, Ive referred to Aviva all the way through  this decision.
background
Mr H took out a life and critical  illness policy  with Aviva in 2006. Mr H was diagnosed with 
cancer in 2018  and made a claim under the policy. Aviva has declined  the claim, relying on 
an exclusion, which it says means  all claims for cancer are excluded. 
Mr H doesnt think Aviva is entitled to rely on the exclusion. He thinks  the exclusion is 
ambiguous and should be interpreted  in a way that means his claim is successful.  Aviva  
maintains it is entitled to rely on the exclusion to reject the claim. 
Mr H complained to us and one of our investigators  considered his complaint. She explained 
that she didnt  think the exclusion was ambiguous and felt Aviva was entitled  to rely on it to 
turn down Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans  decision and the case was passed to me. I sent Mr H some  
notes hed not seen made  by the underwriters at the time he took out the policy, as I felt he 
should have the chance to comment on these. Mr H pointed out that the notes suggested  the 
decision to add the exclusion was made on the basis some polyps he had in 2005 were  still 
present when the policy started, when they werent.  
I asked Aviva to comment on this point. It replied  to say that, although the underwriters had 
incorrectly referred to the polyps still being  present in their notes, a full cancer exclusion 
would still have been applied. Its provided  a copy of the underwriting guide from 2006  to 
back this up. Ive also sent a copy of this to Mr H and told him Im now in a position  to issue  
this final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy  provides  for payment of the policy benefit if he suffers from one of a list of 
defined critical illnesses.  One of these is cancer, which  is specifically defined. Its not in 
dispute that Mr Hs cancer meets the policy definition  of cancer. This means if it wasnt for 
the exclusion clause  its likely Aviva  would pay his claim. So, I think  its best if I deal with the 
exclusion clause itself first and consider whether its ambiguous. 
When Mr H took out the policy Aviva  sent the paperwork about the policy  under cover  of a 
letter to his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA).  This included  a document called Protection  
Account Cover details  and Cover schedule. This document  was in two parts.  The first was 
the details of cover and the second part was the schedule, which was two pages. The 
exclusion Aviva  is relying  on is on page  2 of the schedule and reads as follows:
We will not pay a claim for Life or Earlier Critical Illness Cover If the cause of the claim is 
related to:
Ref: DRN82830952No payment of benefit shall be made  under critical Illness for any claim arising directly or
indirectly as a result of cancer, any metastases, including any tumour that has not been 
confirmed by biopsy  as being a new primary tumour and any treatment  of such tumours;
The same exclusion was also applied to the total permanent disability cover. 
Ive read this exclusion clause numerous  times.  My first observation is that the first line is 
unnecessary. Aviva  has explained this was probably automatically added  as soon as the 
system picked up an exclusion was to be applied. It clearly wasnt  necessary in light of the 
wording of the exclusion clause itself. But its so obviously unnecessary, I dont think it 
makes the exclusion as a whole  ambiguous.
I appreciate Mr Hs point on the second  part of the exclusion. And his point that the 
additional wording  any metastases turns the sentence into a list, rather than two sub-
clauses. But I dont  think the exclusion is ambiguous. I think  it is clear that benefit wont be 
paid for any claim arising directly or indirectly  as a  result  of cancer. I think the reason for the 
second part of the exclusion is to make  sure its clear that even cancer not confirmed by 
biopsy as a new primary tumour is excluded. As I understand it, some tumours cant  be 
biopsied due to their location  and nature and Aviva wanted to make sure it was clear these 
are also excluded. 
I know Mr H feels  very strongly that the wording is ambiguous  and he thinks the second part 
clearly means only cancer that has not been  confirmed as a new and primary tumour  by 
biopsy is excluded, but Im afraid I dont agree. 
Im also satisfied that Aviva did intend to apply the exclusion, even though it incorrectly 
recorded in its underwriting notes that Mr Hs polyps  had not been removed. This is because  
Ive seen the underwriting guide  from 2006 and it clearly stated all cancers should be 
excluded from critical illness cover  if the customer has had three polyps  or more. And it did 
not distinguish  between polyps that were still present and polyps that had been removed. 
Ive also considered whether the policy documentation sent to Mr H was clear  enough.  
Under the rules  applicable when Aviva provided the policy  and as a matter of good industry 
practice, Aviva needed to pay due regard to Mr Hs information needs and communicate 
information to him in a way which was clear,  fair and not misleading. I think it also needed to 
make sure any significant exclusions were drawn  to Mr Hs attention.  
Prior to Mr H agreeing  to go ahead with the policy, Aviva wrote to him and explained it was 
unable to offer cover  on the terms hed applied  for and it enclosed  a quotation setting out the 
revised terms. This set out the exclusion  for cancer,  which Aviva is now relying on. And I can 
see Mr H signed a Declaration for Acceptance  Terms with this letter on 29 November 2006 
to say he would like to go ahead on the terms offered. 
Aviva then sent the policy documentation to Mr H under cover of a letter  dated 19 December 
2006. It also sent a copy  of the relevant documents to Mr Hs IFA. The letter  included a bullet 
point list of the paperwork for Mr H to read and some things for him to check.  It then said he 
needed to check  the Confirmation of application  form details.
The second  item listed was the Protection Account Cover details and Cover schedule.  The 
Cover schedule referred was a two-page  document and formed  part of the pack. It looks like 
it came  after the policy  wording,  but I cant know exactly  how the documents were  
Ref: DRN82830953presented. As Ive said, the exclusion for cancer  (as set out earlier) was on the second page 
of the schedule under the heading We will not pay any claim. 
The schedule is a key document. It included the date the policy  started and finished and the 
amount of cover, ie the level of benefit. And the covering letter  did mention it and say is was 
part of the paperwork  for Mr H to read. It was also mentioned at the start of the Protection  
Account Cover details.  At this point,  it mentioned  any additional features would be shown on 
the schedule.  
As Ive already  mentioned,  Aviva also sent the documents to Mr Hs IFA. And I think  it was 
entitled to expect the IFA to highlight and explain any key information. 
So, overall, I think Aviva fulfilled its obligations on providing the product information  to Mr H. 
Ive noted Aviva did charge a slightly higher premium as well as adding the exclusion. But 
Im satisfied that this was for the extra risk they felt Mr H presented outside the risk of cancer 
under the critical  illness cover; particularly as it did not apply the exclusion to the life cover.  
This all means that, despite my sympathy  for Mr Hs very difficult  situation, I dont think its 
appropriate for me to uphold his complaint and make Aviva pay his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8283095