K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about the way Monument  Insurance dac has dealt with a claim he 
made for unemployment  on an overdraft payment protection policy.
Mr N also made a claim on another Monument  policy that he holds and a complaint about  
that is being dealt with separately by this service.
background
Mr N made  a claim on the policy which was accepted and paid out for the period  1 Dec 2016  
to 22 March 2017. The claim ended because Mr N found a new job. However this new job 
turned out to be short term and itself ended on 28 May 2017. Mr N therefore applied  for his 
unemployment claim to be continued.  Mr N thinks that, as the original claim was accepted,  
Monument should just accept the continuing  claim. But Monument has sought to make  
additional enquires before agreeing the claim and it is the nature of these enquires  that Mr N 
objects to, as well as the fact that the claim has still not been paid out.
When Mr N complained to Monument,  it said that indications were that Mr N was self-
employed and that it was still seeking  clarification of his circumstances to determine  whether 
to agree to continuing payments. An element  of Mr Ns complaint was that he was unhappy 
that he was being asked  for his phone  number. Monument accepted that it hadnt  sufficiently  
explained why it was asking for his number (so that it could more easily discuss  his claim)  
and so it offered  Mr N £100 for inconvenience.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ns complaint. He recommended that Monument should assess 
the claim as though Mr N were employed rather than self-employed. But that was not to say 
that the claim should be accepted, as there  might  be other  considerations to take into 
account. Both parties disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have set out their arguments in this case.  I dont intend  to re-state them  all 
here, beyond some  key points. But I would like to assure both Monument and Mr N that I 
have read and fully considered all the information  that has been provided.
Mr Ns employment situation is complex. He is the director  of a company and he undertakes  
work both through this company and as a direct employee of businesses, depending, he 
says, on the requirements  of the business he is to work for. He says his preference is to be a 
direct employee if possible. 
The nature of Mr Ns employment seems  to leave him in an unfortunate position, as our 
adjudicator has said,  Mr Ns circumstances  seem to straddle the line between  being 
employed and being  self-employed. In these circumstances, overall I consider that it would 
be fair to treat Mr N as employed for the purposes of assessing  the claim.
The adjudicator likened Mr Ns situation as being more akin to a contractor finding  
employment, a circumstance  that the policy is set up to deal with. Mr N disagrees that he 
Ref: DRN85895432could be classified as a contractor and states  that he is ordinarily  a substantive  employee  of 
whichever business  he is working for.  That may indeed be the case. However,  my view is 
that, in this instance, the nature of the employment that ended in May 2017 is still to be 
established.
As Monument has pointed  out, the employers  section  of the claim form has been completed  
by the accountant that acts for Mr Ns company. Therefore Monument hasnt received any 
information directly from the business  that was actually  employing Mr N about  the basis  on 
which he was employed or why that employment came  to an end. 
So whilst I take the view that Monument  should  treat Mr N as employed for the purposes of 
assessing his claim,  that is not to say that it should now pay the claim. Monument doesnt  
have to set aside all of the other terms and conditions of the policy  and is entitled  to make 
reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that Mr Ns unemployment meets the terms as set out in 
the policy.
Mr N has been concerned that Monument may seek to re-open closed claims. Monument  
has said that its enquiries relate solely to clarifying  Mr Ns employment status and it has 
never stated  or inferred  that such enquiries might result in an attempt to re-coup payments 
made for previous claims. 
Mr N has requested that Monument  provide  a written  apology and compensation for the poor 
service it provided. As Mr Ns employment  circumstances are so complex, Im not surprised 
that Monument has sought further  clarification. Monument has offered £100  for 
inconvenience (to cover both complaints) and I think this is reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that Monument Insurance dac should re-consider the claim under the 
remaining policy terms, without treating Mr N as self-employed.
Monument Insurance dac should also now pay the £100 that it earlier  offered for 
inconvenience, if it hasnt  already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8589543