K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the amount offered by Ageas Insurance  Limited to settle a 
claim under their buildings  insurance policy. 
background
Mr G contacted Ageas in August 2017 about  an escape of water  claim. According to Ageas 
he wanted to get his own repair quotes.  He sent these  to Ageas in November 2017.  Ageas 
thought they were rather high. So it arranged for its agent to inspect the damage  and check 
the repair costs.
Ageas said when the agent inspected the damage in December 2017, it found  that the leak 
hadnt been fixed. So the damage had become  worse in the meantime. Ageas said it would 
only cover  damage which would have happened  by August 2017. It costed the work and 
offered Mr G a cash settlement of £1,105. It also offered to carry out the repair work it 
thought was covered if Mr and Mrs G preferred  that.
Mr G didnt think that was enough. After bringing  an earlier complaint to this service  which  
wasnt upheld, he obtained his own surveyors report which estimated that the cost of the 
repair works was considerably more than Ageas had offered. Ageas didnt increase its offer. 
It said it didnt disagree  with the extent of the damage identified by Mr Gs surveyor. But it 
said it wasnt liable for damage  that had been caused by Mr and Mrs Gs delay in repairing it.
Mr and Mrs G brought a further  complaint  to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. 
She didnt  think Mr G had shown that hed repaired the leak by November 2017. She said his 
surveyors report didnt say what damage would have occurred first and what would have 
happened as time went  on.
As Mr and Mrs G didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Ageas treated Mr and Mrs G fairly in not reconsidering  its cash 
settlement offer in the light of the report from Mr Gs surveyor. The survey was carried out in 
May 2018, about nine months  after the damage was first discovered. Ageas doesnt  dispute 
the damage reported by the surveyor. Its main  reason for not changing its decision is that it 
doesnt believe all the damage described  by the surveyor happened  as a result  of the 
original leak but rather that much  of the damage happened because  of delay in fixing the 
leak.
Mr Gs surveyor  isnt specific about  what damage was caused  at which point.  He reported:
The damage in my opinion has been caused over a long period [of] time. Any escape of 
water since  the damage was identified would in my opinion have had little effect to the 
already damaged timber and plasterboard areas .
The surveyor seems to have based this on the information from Mr G that:
Ref: DRN88042282When  the water damage  was noted  in the first instance and the cause identified, the area 
was isolated to prevent any further  escape  of water.
I can see that Mr G produced a report dated January 2018 from his brother who is a 
plumber saying  that in August 2017  he stopped  the leak by isolating the valves  to the 
shower room and in late November  he returned to repair  the shower valve.
But Ageas thinks  it was at least four months  later before the leaking shower valve was 
repaired. Its surveyor noted in December 2017  that the leak hadnt been traced or isolated. 
According to Ageass  notes Mr G said he hadnt  had the leak repaired at that point and they 
were turning  the water on and off as needed.
Mr Gs surveyor  noted that a hole had been  made in the bedroom  wall adjacent to the 
shower to try and repair the leak. But this hole isnt mentioned in the report from Ageass 
surveyor and cant be seen in the photo  he took of that bedroom wall. Because of the 
inconsistencies around these dates Im not persuaded  that the leak had been stopped and 
repaired before  December 2017.  To my mind  that undermines Mr Gs surveyors report 
because the report  was based  on an incorrect assumption,  namely that there  wouldnt have 
been any further escape of water after the damage had been first noticed.
Ageas noted that the detailed quote  provided  by Mr G in November 2017 didnt include 
repairing the hall flooring. But by the time it inspected  the property in December 2017 the 
hall flooring was clearly  water damaged.  So I think its likely that the damage did get worse  
after it was first notified to Ageas by Mr and Mrs G. Under the terms of the policy Ageas is 
only liable for damage caused by the water leak and not for damage that could have been 
avoided.
All in all I think Ageas acted reasonably  in not changing its decision in the light of Mr Gs 
surveyors report.
Mr G thinks it doesnt  make  sense that Ageas isnt prepared to pay for work to the shower  
room when it would pay for work to a cupboard a few metres outside  the shower room.  I can 
see that the scope  of the works which Ageas  was prepared  to pay for was covered as part of 
Mr and Mrs Gs earlier complaint to this service. So I wont look at that as part of this 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8804228