K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited put him into a compulsory 
annuity. He is unhappy that Abbey Life did not take steps to contact him, which  resulted in 
him being deprived of the opportunity to choose how to take benefits from his pension.  Also,  
that the annuity payments, which he is unhappy  with, are reduced  even  further by the 
charges applied upon conversion.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in full in my provisional decision, which is attached  
and forms part of this decision. 
On 2 July 2018,  I sent my provisional decision to Mr M and Abbey Life, explaining  why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. Mr M originally accepted my provisional  decision 
and Abbey Life agreed to redress Mr M as set out in my decision. 
Abbey Life also agreed to deduct only the net amounts Mr M received  taking  into account 
any bank charges deducted,  subject to receiving evidence of these. 
Later, having received projections  of what he might get, Mr M objected  to the redress  
methodology as he didnt  think  he was fairly  being  put back in the position he would have 
been in but for Abbey  Lifes actions. The focus  of his submissions is that he does not think  
the monies that he has received from the compulsory annuity Abbey Life set up should be 
deducted from the fund now being used to calculate  the benefits  he is due, as this puts him 
in a worse position  than he is currently.  Mr M has provided some  calculations to support this. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached in relation to appropriate redress the complaint 
has been passed back to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr Ms concerns focus primarily on redress and the deduction of the monies  he received 
from Abbey  Life via the compulsory annuity it set up. In turn, this is what  I have focused on 
within this decision.  My findings  in respect  of the wider complaint remain as set out in my 
provisional decision, which is attached and forms part of this decision. 
As explained in my provisional decision,  I do think that in this case Abbey Life ought  to have 
done more before setting up a compulsory annuity   and, that if it had done  Mr M would 
have delayed taking  benefits until he reached  age 75, which happened in May 2018. The 
redress I set out was based on this. 
Mr M did not choose for the annuity to be set up and feels  strongly that he should not now be 
penalised for having received money from it. I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration  if despite  his 
complaint being  upheld  and redress being  awarded  he feels  he is not in a better  position   
Ref: DRN80548002but, this does not mean that the redress is wrong or unfair. Sometimes, despite a 
wrongdoing on the business  part fair redress results in no loss. In cases  like Mr Ms this 
could be for any number of reasons, for example: 
The performance of the relevant pension fund/s  during the time between  when the 
annuity was set up and the date of calculation (in this case  3 May 2018)  was such 
that the fund is not significantly larger at the latter date. 
Annuity rates have dropped, so the buying  power of the fund is reduced.  
The amount  already  received from the pension fund decreases the level of benefits 
that can be secured  at this point. 
I have taken everything Mr M has said into account  whilst I sympathise with his position 
and I accept that these  payments would not have been paid if Abbey Life had done what I 
found it ought to have  done  I cannot  agree that it would be reasonable for me to not take 
into account the monies he has been  paid. Mr M has received a significant amount of money 
from his pension and has had use of these funds.  
Mr M is now in a position where  he can choose how he takes his benefits, for example he 
could: 
Make  provision for a dependants or spouses  pension.
Get the best available annuity rate on the market.
Look into the possibility of getting  an enhanced  annuity.
So, whilst Mr M may not be happy that the monies paid out under the compulsory annuity  
are being  deducted from any redress payable, he will now be in a position where he can take 
advantage of the different  options that would  have been available  to him at retirement  had 
Abbey Life not purchased a compulsory  annuity  on his behalf.  
Mr M believes that Abbey Life misled  him into thinking that an annuity  could not be unwound 
and that it ought  to have referred him to our service at an earlier  date. He thinks that if he 
had been better informed  at an earlier date he could have reduced  the amount paid out 
under the compulsory annuity. Generally, annuity  contracts cannot be reversed or encashed 
without breaching HMRC  rules (this would incur  an unauthorised payment charge  this can 
be up to 55% of the pension pot)  so, I dont think that Abbey Life did mislead Mr M. Given 
that Abbey Lifes position was that it had not done  anything wrong in setting up the 
compulsory annuity,  in this case,  I would not expect  it to have informed Mr M that this may 
be an option. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is supposed to be a last resort when an issue  cannot be 
resolved by the respondent business  and its complaint  process has been exhausted  or, a 
final response letter has been issued. I have not seen any evidence that Abbey Life ought to 
have referred Mr M to us at an earlier date. 
So, whilst I understand  Mr Ms frustration, I remain of the view that the redress as set out in 
my provisional decision and below is fair. 
putting things right
I think that Abbey Life ought to have taken  additional steps to contact Mr M and give him an 
opportunity to decide how he would  like to take his pension benefits. Had it done so, I think  
Mr M would have delayed  taking benefits until he turned 75, which  was on 3 May 2018. 
Ref: DRN80548003My aim is to put Mr M in the position he would have  been in had Abbey Life acted as I have  
found it ought fairly and reasonably to have done.  I understand  that since I issued my 
provisional decision Abbey Life has already undertaken  a number of the steps set out below 
 but, for the sake of completeness I have repeated the redress methodology Abbey Life is 
to follow  in full. For the avoidance of doubt, any steps already completed do not need to be 
repeated. 
Mr M has told us that he would still have taken out an annuity but that he is likely to have 
shopped around to get the best available rate on the market. To compensate Mr M, Abbey
Life should:
1.Establish what Mr Ms fund would have  been worth as at 3 May 2018 had it remained 
invested until that date.
2.Determine whether or not Mr M would  have taken 25% tax free cash when he took 
benefits. If Mr M opts to take tax free cash this should be paid to him directly less any 
amount deducted  under step 3. 8% simple  interest per year from the date the 
payment would have  been received until the date of payment should be added to any 
tax free cash owed  to Mr M.
3.Mr M has received some money from his pension and this needs to be taken into 
account, if Mr M opts to take tax free cash then the amount  he has received to date 
should be deducted from that. If not, then the sum will need to be deducted  from the 
fund being used to purchase  an income.
4.Use the residual fund (either  75% or 100% (less whatever is deducted  under step 3)) 
to establish the highest  level of income Mr M could  have purchased at 75 on the 
open market.  When  doing so Abbey Life should  check to see if Mr M would have 
been entitled to an enhanced annuity. And, the terms on which  Mr M would have 
taken his income i.e. joint or single life, regularity  of payment and length of 
guaranteed period, if any.
5.If the income that Mr M could have purchased is higher than that which  he has in 
payment, Abbey  Life will need  to make up the shortfall. It can do so by 
supplementing the income already in payment internally (if possible)  or, it can 
unwind the annuity and purchase an income  as established above on the open 
market.
6.Allow Mr M to choose an income  on different terms even if this doesnt  result in a 
higher level of income being payable. For example,  Mr M may choose a joint life 
annuity, this would likely  reduce the level of income  but, because  the aim of this 
redress is to put Mr M in the position  he would have been  in had he been able to 
choose how to take benefits from his pension at 75, Abbey Life should allow  for this.
7.If, depending on the outcome of the above and the type of annuity Mr M would have 
taken, Mr M has missed out on any higher payments since 3 May 2018, Abbey Life 
should pay these  to Mr M plus 8% simple  interest per year from the date the payment 
would have been received until date of payment.
8.Pay any tax liability which may arise from the change to Mr Ms annuity.
Ref: DRN80548004In addition to the above,  Abbey  Life should pay Mr M £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered as a result of being deprived of the option  to choose how to 
take his benefits in retirement.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Abbey Life Assurance 
Company Limited  to pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Abbey  Life Assurance  Company Limited put him into a compulsory annuity.  He is 
unhappy that Abbey Life did not take steps to contact him, which  resulted in him being deprived  of the 
opportunity to choose  how to take benefits from his pension. Also, that the annuity payments, which  
he is unhappy  with, are reduced even further by the charges applied upon conversion.
background
Ref: DRN80548005Mr M, who lives abroad, reached  his normal retirement date under  the plan in May 2008.
Abbey Life sent him a retirement  pack prior to this. Mr M returned the form electing to defer taking 
benefits by a year.
A year later the process was repeated  and Mr M deferred taking benefits for another  year.
In 2012 Mr M contacted Abbey Life via the email system  on its website. He said that he had not heard 
from it for a couple  of years  and confirmed  the correct address to use for him. He also queried the 
current status of his pension.
Abbey Life wrote to the address given with a change of address form for Mr M complete.
Mr M didnt return the form. Abbey Life was unable  to update the address on the plan and did not 
receive any further communication from Mr M. So, it contractually  vested the plan in May 2013 on his 
70th birthday.
On 28 May 2013, Abbey Life received a further deferral form from Mr M, requesting  to defer benefits 
until his 75th birthday. The form was dated 13 February 2013. This quoted  Mr Ms address. Abbey 
Life updated  the address  and wrote  back with forms for Mr M to begin receiving the annuity it had set 
up. Mr M didnt respond.
Mr M contacted  Abbey  Life again in 2015 saying  that he had not heard from Abbey Life for a couple of 
years after he sent the deferral  form. Abbey  Life resent the forms.  After some back and forth Mr M 
returned the forms confirming  that he wanted to receive the annuity by cheque.
Abbey Life paid Mr M the backdated annuity payments  once it had received all of the necessary  
documentation and set up the ongoing payments.
Mr M complained to Abbey  Life about how it had handled the vesting of his pension and the deal that 
he got. Abbey Life rejected the complaint and said that the annuity could not be reversed but the 
annuity payments could be made to a UK bank account.
Unhappy with Abbey Lifes response Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld.  In her opinion it 
was not unreasonable for Abbey Life to require Mr M to complete a change of address form and she 
thought it had acted in line with the terms of the policy  when vesting the policy.
Mr M disagreed. Because agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for 
review.
As part of our investigation we asked  Abbey  Life to provide us with further information about its 
decision to put Mr M into a compulsory annuity on his 70th birthday. It provided a copy  of the policy 
terms and conditions  and pointed to the clause describing how benefits  should be taken  at a 
consumers normal retirement date. And, it said that a combination of not being  able to update Mr Ms 
address and it discovering that the requirement  for the policyholder to take benefits at their normal  
retirement date had not been applied  led to Mr M being  put into a compulsory annuity at the next 
anniversary of the policy.
Clause 11 of the terms and conditions of the policy, which is the clause that Abbey Life pointed to, 
says, amongst other things, that:
(a)The Policyholders personal  pension from the Benefit Fund shall become payable in 
accordance with the Rules:
(I) at his Normal  Retirement Date or at such  different date as the Policyholder
  may notify in writing to the Provider subject  to the Rules, or
(II) on his early  retirement due to ill health subject to the Provider  having received 
evidence satisfactory to it.
Ref: DRN80548006my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
Mr M complains that he was denied the opportunity to choose how to take his pension because  of 
Abbey Lifes  actions. Based  on what  Ive seen so far, I think his complaint should be upheld.  Ill 
explain why.
Mr M deferred taking benefits  for two years consecutively from his normal retirement age by 
submitting a request  to defer form, which appears to have formed  part of Abbey Lifes retirement  
pack. These forms indicated that he could defer up to the age of 75, which  is in line with the 
applicable legislation at the time. It then seems that there was no communication between Abbey Life 
and Mr M until 2012,  when Mr M contacted it to check that it had the correct address for him. In the 
meantime, Abbey Life continued to defer payment of Mr Ms pension.
Abbey Life sent Mr M a change of address form; Mr M did not return  this. And, on his 70th birthday 
Abbey Life put Mr M into a compulsory annuity. Based on Abbey Lifes more  recent submissions this 
seems to have taken  place due, in part, to a change of policy and, in part, because  it could not update 
Mr Ms address.
I understand that it was important for Abbey Life to get confirmation of Mr Ms address in writing for 
security reasons  but, even taking this into account, I think that Abbey Life ought to have taken  
further steps to contact  him. In putting Mr M into a compulsory annuity  without his consent, it took an 
irreversible action with his pension and deprived him of the opportunity to take tax free cash or 
choose how he takes benefits. In this particular  case, I dont think  that it was reasonable to not 
contact Mr M before taking  this step in respect of his pension.
Ultimately, Abbey Life did have an address  for Mr M and could have  contacted  him at this address (or 
the phone number it had for him  from earlier communication with him) disclosing no more personal 
information than it did when it sent him the change of address form. I think it is more likely than not 
that if Abbey Life had contacted  Mr M explaining the action that it intended  to take  and allowed him 
sufficient time to respond, taking into account  the fact that he lived abroad  he would have 
responded in a timely manner.
Given that Mr M did send Abbey Life a form in February 2013 confirming  that he wanted to defer 
benefits until 75, I am satisfied that this is the instruction  he would  have given  it had it contacted him 
as suggested above.
So, I think Abbey Life should put Mr M in the position he would have been in had it taken further steps 
to try and contact him, as outlined above. In this case, this means putting Mr M in the position he 
would have been in had he delayed taking benefits until 75 and then elected how he wanted to take 
his pension.
Mr M also raised concerns about how his annuity was paid and the amount that he is losing  in 
charges. It is my understanding that Abbey  Life will pay the annuity by cheque  or into a UK bank 
account. I think these options are still open to Mr M. I understand  that it must be frustrating for Mr M to 
lose a portion to his income to charges  as a result of living abroad  but, I cant  fairly and reasonably  
hold Abbey  Life responsible for this or direct it to cover  those costs.
Once Abbey Life has completed the calculation  as set out below, depending on the outcome, Mr M 
may wish to review  how he has elected to receive his annuity.
Ref: DRN80548007putting things  right
As set out above, I think that Abbey  Life ought to have  taken additional steps  to contact
Mr M and give him an opportunity  to decide how he would like to take his pension  benefits.
Had it done so, I think Mr M would have delayed taking benefits  until he turned 75, which was on 3 
May 2018.
My aim is to put Mr M in the position he would  have  been  in had Abbey Life acted as I have found  it 
ought fairly and reasonably  to have done.
Mr M has told us that he would still have taken  out an annuity  but that he is likely  to have shopped  
around to get the best available rate on the market.  To compensate  Mr M, Abbey
Life should:
1.Establish what Mr Ms fund would  have been worth as at 3 May 2018 had it remained 
invested until that date.
2.Determine whether  or not Mr M would have taken 25% tax free cash  when he took benefits. If 
Mr M opts to take tax free cash this should be paid to him directly less any amount deducted 
under step 3. 8% simple per year from the date the payment would have been received  until 
the date of payment should be added to any tax free cash owed  to Mr M.
3.Mr M has received  some money from his pension  and this needs to be taken into account, if 
Mr M opts to take tax free cash then the amount he has received to date should  be deducted 
from that. If not, then the sum will need to be deducted  from the fund being  used to purchase 
an income.
4.Use the residual fund (either 75% or 100%  (less whatever is deducted under step 3)) to 
establish the highest  level of income Mr M could have purchased at 75 on the open market.  
When doing so Abbey Life should  check to see if Mr M would have  been entitled  to an 
enhanced annuity. And, the terms on which Mr M would have taken his income  i.e. joint or 
single life, regularity of payment and length  of guaranteed period,  if any.
5.If the income that Mr M could have purchased is higher than that which he has in payment, 
Abbey Life will need to make up the shortfall. It can do so by supplementing the income 
already in payment internally (if possible)  or, it can unwind the annuity and purchase an 
income as established  above on the open market.
6.Allow Mr M to choose an income on different  terms even if this doesnt result in a higher level 
of income being  payable. For example,  Mr M may choose a joint life annuity,  this would likely  
reduce the level of income  but, because the aim of this redress  is to put Mr M in the position 
he would have been in had he been able to choose how to take benefits from his pension at 
75, Abbey Life should allow for this.
7.If, depending on the outcome of the above and the type of annuity Mr M would have taken, Mr 
M has missed  out on any higher payments since 3 May 2018,  Abbey Life should  pay these to 
Mr M plus 8% simple  per year from the date the payment would  have been received until date 
of payment.
8.Pay any tax liability which may arise from the change to Mr Ms annuity.
In addition to the above, Abbey Life should  pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered as a result of being  deprived of the option to choose how to take his benefits in retirement.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN80548008For the reasons  set out above, I am minded to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Abbey Life
Assurance Company Limited should compensate Mr M as outlined above.
I will consider anything  either  party would like to add as long as I receive it by 16 July 2018.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8054800