K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about the way their mortgage broker,  Intelligent  Lending  
Limited (trading as Ocean  Finance), handled  a secured lending application. Mr and Mrs B 
say they were given  incorrect information throughout the application process.    
Background
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs B made an application for a secured loan with a broker, 
Intelligent Lending.  During the initial telephone  conversations with the broker,  their loan 
requirements were discussed. Amongst  other  things, fees, timescales, documentation 
required for the lender and valuations were  also discussed during  these  initial calls.  
Mr and Mrs B sent the information that was requested for the application  to be processed. 
As the application  progressed, Mr and Mrs B were told they would need to provide additional  
documentation that was required by the lender. They were  also told a full valuation  was 
required and a surveyor visit to their property had to be arranged.
Just before the loan was due to complete,  there was some confusion  about whether the 
funds would be received by bank  transfer  or cheque. The lender understood a cheque  would  
be sent but Mr and Mrs B believed it would be a bank transfer. Intelligent  Lending  admitted it 
had provided misleading  information about this. It agreed to cover the cost of a bank transfer 
and this payment  method was arranged.  The loan did complete and the funds were received 
by Mr and Mrs B on 11 February 2019.   
Mr and Mrs B complained to Intelligent  Lending,  as they were unhappy with the way the 
application had been handled.  In summary,  they felt that they had been misled over the 
timescales for the completion of the loan. They said they had been given incorrect 
information about the documentation that was required  and the type of survey  that was 
needed. Overall, they felt the service provided  was poor value  for money  for the broker  fee 
they paid. They felt they had to chase things up and done most of the work to get the loan 
completed. 
Intelligent Lending  didnt uphold the complaint.  It said:
-the timescales  given were realistic  taking into account the actual completion of the 
loan;
-the advisor  explained the different  types of valuation and suggested  a full valuation  
might not be required  but didnt provide any guarantees;
-the information  required  to process  the application is determined by the lenders 
requirements, so this is outside of its control;
-it did provide  misleading information  about  how the funds would be paid  so agreed 
to cover  the cost of an electronic bank transfer.  
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator  didnt uphold the 
complaint. He didnt  think Intelligent  Lending had misled Mr and Mrs B about timescales. He 
thought they had received  the service they paid for, so didnt  think  the broker  fee should be 
refunded. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89386562In arranging a secured  loan for Mr and Mrs B, Intelligent Lending acted as a broker.  It 
provided an advised service, so it had to recommend a suitable  loan for Mr and Mrs Bs 
needs. It charged a broker  fee for the work it did. This covered, amongst other things, finding 
an acceptable lender and collecting  information  required for the loan to complete. During the 
initial calls,  the advisors  did explain the amount of the fee and this was also confirmed in the 
mortgage illustration  that was sent to Mr and Mrs B. 
I think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs B they would  be paying a broker  fee and how much 
that would  be. Intelligent  Lending did find a lender and made a recommendation for a loan 
that was acceptable to Mr and Mrs B. It also arranged valuations  and gathered  the 
information required for the loan to complete. I understand that Mr and Mrs B did chase for 
updates and spend time gathering additional  information required by the lender.  I know  
Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that the service they received wasnt value for money.  However, 
considering everything, Im still satisfied that Intelligent Lending did fulfil the agreement  to 
arrange the loan Mr and Mrs B requested  - so for that reason I dont think  it needs  to refund 
the fee it charged. 
 
Mr and Mrs B have  raised several  concerns about the level of service they received from 
Intelligent Lending.  They say they were  given mis-leading timescales for the completion of 
the loan. During  the initial telephone  calls between Mrs B and Intelligent Lending, there were 
discussions around likely timescales. Estimations were provided  and a likely completion of 
three to four weeks  was mentioned on several  occasions. During  the conversations, there  
were comments about the potential for the completion to be quicker than this. The whole 
process of first contact  to funds being  received  took around five weeks.  It was around three  
weeks between Mr and Mrs B returning  the application pack and the funds being with them.  
While I accept the advisors did offer the possibility  of a quicker completion, I dont find the 
Intelligent Lending  clearly misled Mr and Mrs B. I also dont find the timescales it was 
working towards to be unusual or unreasonable. So, I havent found reason  to uphold this 
part of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the information  they were given about  what  valuation 
would be completed.  They say they were led to believe a full valuation wouldnt be required 
but this didnt turn out to be correct. And it was then difficult to arrange  an appropriate time 
for a surveyor to visit the property. During the initial calls, the advisor did explain there were 
different types  of valuation but if a full valuation was needed a convenient time would be 
arranged. While I accept Mr and Mrs B were led to believe that a full valuation  probably 
wouldnt be required, they were aware  it was a possibility. Ultimately,  the type of valuation  
was a decision for the lender but I think Intelligent Lending did enough to explain it was 
possible. 
Throughout the application  process, Mr and Mrs B were asked to provide various pieces of 
information. They did have to send additional  information after follow up queries from the 
lender. A broker can anticipate the likely information a lender will need but it cant  guarantee 
that additional requests wont be made.  I think Intelligent Lending did inform Mr and Mrs B in 
a timely  manner when  further information  was asked for. I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs 
frustration that some  of the original documents they provided werent deemed acceptable. 
But I dont think it would  be fair to hold Intelligent  Lending responsible for any decisions 
made by the lender to request clarification  on information to agree the lending.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs B raised concerns about  the method of payment of the released funds 
on completion. Intelligent  Lending has admitted that it gave misleading information  to Mrs B 
on the phone about how the lender  would  pay the funds. To compensate Mr and Mrs B for 
Ref: DRN89386563this it agreed to cover the electronic transfer charge, which  they would normally have had to 
pay if they wanted a bank  transfer rather than a cheque from the lender. Ive seen a letter 
from the lender  to Intelligent Lending  providing  confirmation of the commission  it owed.  The 
letter confirms a deduction equal  to the amount of the electronic transfer  charge  has been 
made  so effectively  the commission was reduced. So I am satisfied that Intelligent Lending 
did bear the cost of the charge as it said it would.   
In conclusion, I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B feel that the process  took a long time and 
the amount of information they needed to provide was significant. But I think the timescales 
Intelligent Lending  worked to were  reasonable. The type of valuation  and additional  
information requested  were as a result of the lenders  requirements.  Overall, I think Intelligent  
Lending did provide the service it agreed  to. And I dont  think it clearly misled  Mr and Mrs B 
 other  than around the payment method, which it has provided fair compensation for. 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8938656