K820x#14Complaint
Miss L is unhappy with a series of payments that were  made  from the bank accounts of her 
late mother (Mrs L) held with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)
background
Mrs L had several accounts with Halifax  from until she passed away in May 2013. 
This complaint is brought by her daughter. She argues that there  were  several  significant  
withdrawals and payments from these  accounts during this period  that were  carried  out by 
Miss Ls sibling  who had apparently been  granted a Power  of Attorney (POA). She says that 
many of these werent in her mothers best interests and that her sibling wouldnt have had 
permission to carry them out. 
She also says that, when  Mrs L passed  away in May 2013, Halifax  shouldnt  have paid the 
money still in her account (just under £7,000) to her sibling given that Miss L was the 
executor of the estate. In August 2013,  Halifax paid the same sum to Miss Ls account (with 
the funeral expenses that her sibling  had incurred deducted) only to write  to her in October  
2013 requesting  that she repay  it. It wrote  to her again in November 2013  to chase 
repayment. It subsequently agreed  that it wouldnt insist on Miss L repaying  this sum and 
instead sought to recover it from her sibling. 
This uncertainty caused distress  to Miss L. She complained about all three issues  to our 
service. Her concerns were looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold  her complaint. 
The investigator said that the withdrawals  from the account carried  out by her sibling  before  
Mrs L passed away had been carried out under  a POA. This meant the sibling had the 
authority to carry out the withdrawals. 
The investigator said that Halifax was following its internal bereavement process when  it 
paid out the remaining funds in the account  and it hadnt done anything wrong when it did 
so. The investigator  agreed that Halifax caused Miss L a significant  amount of distress when 
it paid the account proceeds to her only to later demand repayment. But she said that we 
can only award compensation  for distress  and inconvenience to the complainant.  This 
complaint was brought by the estate of the late Mrs L  and a legal estate cant  suffer 
distress. She therefore didnt think any compensation  should  be paid. 
Miss L disagreed with the investigators view. She said that, as she understood it, someone  
appointed as an attorney still needs  to seek  authority for significant  withdrawals to ensure 
that its being carried out in the best interests of the account holder. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Internal records kept by Halifax show  Miss Ls sibling had been appointed under a POA in 
2010. Unfortunately, given the length  of time that has elapsed since the arrangement was 
put into place,  Halifax no longer has a copy of the relevant documentation.
However, the guidance it issues to branch staff says that they should  expect customers  to 
provide the original or certified  legal document granting the POA. 
Ref: DRN87386972On balance, I think its likely that Halifax wouldve checked that the documentation  was 
legitimate before granting this authority to Miss Ls sibling. And once hed been appointed, 
this gave him the legal  authority to make payments from the accounts. For that reason, I 
dont think Halifax did anything wrong  in allowing those payments to go through.  
Miss L says its her understanding that very large withdrawals must be authorised  by 
someone other than the attorney, but Im afraid  thats not the case. I understand that she 
thinks many  of these payments werent in her mothers best interests and that her sibling 
abused the POA. But it would be more appropriate  for her to raise  those concerns with the 
Office of the Public Guardian,  rather than with Halifax.
After Mrs L passed away,  the remaining balance in her account was just under £7,000. As a 
rule, when an account holder passes away, the bank will freeze the account  until probate  
has been granted. There are, however, a small number  of exceptions. Halifaxs internal 
guidance on handling the accounts of deceased customers says its permitted to allow 
withdrawal of funds to cover funeral expenses, inheritance tax and so on. 
I understand her sibling was able to provide Halifax with evidence of a funeral invoice for 
£4,515. But Ive not seen  anything to show that it shouldve  paid out anything  in addition to 
that. However, it has since paid the difference to the estate, so I dont think the estate has 
suffered any financial  loss.
Miss L says that the way this matter  has been handled by Halifax  caused her significant 
distress. Shes provided a great deal of evidence  in support of that. But I agree with the 
investigator that were  not able to ask Halifax to compensate her for that distress.  The estate 
of Mrs L is a separate legal entity  albeit one which can only act via the executors. In most  
circumstances, this service can only look into complaints made  by customers of financial 
businesses and any compensation due must  be paid to the customer. Miss L, in her capacity 
as executor of the estate, is not a customer of the business  instead, the estate of the late 
Mrs L is Halifaxs customer.  
An estate  can only be compensated for things that an estate (as a legal entity)  can suffer   
so for example, an estate can suffer financial loss, but it cant suffer  distress. I dont say any 
of this to minimise the evident  distress  or Miss Ls strength of feeling  about the matter  but 
in the context of this complaint, I cant require  Halifax to compensate her for any distress that 
was caused to her when  she was dealing with the late Mrs Ls estate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8738697