K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the service provided  by TSB Bank plc (TSB) in relation to his bank 
account. 
background
Mr W has raised a number of complaint points. He says:
TSB didnt respond to his complaint within the correct timeframes
Mr W says that TSB didnt respond  to his complaint as it ought to have done.  Im aware that 
TSB experienced some IT problems  in around April 2018 which is when Mr W says the 
above incidents took place. Because TSB was dealing  with a high number of complaints,  it 
was agreed that our service would be able to investigate complaints straightaway without 
customers needing to wait for its final response letter.
TSB has committed  data breaches  
Mr W says that a branch  advisor showed him his fathers personal records and bank account 
details with another bank on their screen. He says that his father has never banked with 
TSB. TSB has said that it wouldnt have been  possible for Mr W to see his fathers bank 
account information with another bank,  on its systems.  
Mr W also says that a landlady at a bed and breakfast checked his bank account for him 
online and saw that there was £7 million in it and there were several other customers details 
with the same name. Mr W says that he left the property and returned sometime later.  When 
he did, the landlady  wasnt  there  and her computer was in a skip. TSB says that Mr W isnt 
registered for Internet banking and its sent us a screenshot showing what  facilities Mr W 
had with it. The screenshot  shows  that Mr W was registered for TSBs Text Alert Service  
which its told us was set up for limit alerts only. He was also previously set up for telephone 
banking but this had been cancelled. 
He took £1,000 in old pound coins to the branch  to change  them  for new pound coins 
but the cashier only returned around £200  to him
Mr W says that he only realised this a few days later when he went  to the Post Office to pay 
the road tax on his car. He said hed planned  to pay £100 with the coins and the remainder 
with his card. At the Post Office the cashier  weighed and checked the bags and told Mr W it 
was made  up of an assortment of coins of different denominations. TSB says that all coins 
would have been weighed out at the branch and it wouldnt  be possible to make  an error like 
this because of the process it has in place for when coins are exchanged.
He was threatened by the manager of the branch and forcibly removed
TSB says that it has CCTV footage which shows that Mr W is upset when he comes into the 
branch. It says the branch  manager  points to the door directing Mr W to leave but that there 
is no physical contact.  We were  able to obtain the CCTV footage  but regrettably have been  
unable to view the content due to technical  issues in accessing  it.
Ref: DRN84020652An investigator here upheld the case and asked TSB to pay £150 as compensation. Mr W 
rejected this and said he should receive  significantly more.  A second investigator reviewed 
the case and didnt consider that a compensation award should be made.  Mr W disagreed  
and so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the second investigator largely  for the same reasons. 
Ive considered the reasons why TSB didnt  send Mr W a final response letter as wed 
usually expect. Because of the IT problems TSB was experiencing at the time, it agreed to 
let its customers bring a complaint here before  it had a chance to investigate.  In the 
circumstances, I consider this to be reasonable.  
Mr W says that TSB has committed data breaches. Ive taken into account what  both Mr W 
and TSB have said. Having done  so, I consider it unlikely that TSB would have had Mr Ws 
fathers bank account details with another bank and personal information on its systems.  Ive 
also considered  what Mr Ws said about  accessing his account  online and seeing a balance  
of £7 million. TSB says theres no record of Mr W being registered  or deregistered for 
Internet banking and its provided a screenshot showing this. Its also said that Mr Ws 
balance over this period  doesnt show any discrepancies. So, taking everything into account,  
I cant agree  that TSB has misused  Mr Ws personal data.
Mr W says that he took £1,000 in old pound coins to the branch to change them for new 
pound coins but the cashier only returned around £200 to him. Ive considered what  both 
Mr W and TSB have  said and the process TSB says it has in place for the exchange of 
coins. Based  on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more likely  than not that Mr W was given 
the equivalent value of the coins hed asked to be exchanged. 
Mr W says that he was threatened by the manager  of the branch and forcibly removed from 
the branch. Where  there  is limited  evidence available, I have to reach my conclusions on the 
basis of what I think was most likely to have happened. I understand it was a worrying  time 
for Mr W and that events may be remembered differently with the passage of time. Ive 
considered Mr Ws testimony but other than this, Ive seen  nothing  to support his version  of 
events. Because  of this I think its more likely than not that Mr W was asked to leave the 
branch without being forcibly removed. 
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN84020653my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against 
TSB Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8402065