K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains, in summary,  about  Barclays Bank  UK PLC twice  declining  a transaction at a 
retailer when he had enough money  available on his credit card to pay for the item, and then 
not contacting him as quickly as he considers it should have done.
Background
In the early evening of 2 January 2019, Mr N tried to buy an electronic item from a retailer.   
The transaction was twice  declined  even though Mr N had enough money available  on his 
card account  (partly because of the credit balance  on the account,  and partly because of the 
credit limit).  Barclays did not contact Mr N as quickly as he considers it should have done  
(he has mentioned a previous occasion where he received  a text more  or less immediately), 
and instead he phoned the bank the following day.
Mr N explains  that the electronic  item was discounted by £200 at the time he tried to buy it, 
and because of the banks action  he lost out on that discount  as well as experiencing 
inconvenience and embarrassment.  Barclays has paid Mr N £25 to reflect that plus £10 
towards the cost of his phone call, but he considers that  as well as acknowledging its 
wrongdoing  it should  pay him compensation of £1,500.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.   He concluded, in 
summary, that the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account provide for it to decline a 
transaction if it considers there might be a risk of fraud, and it was not under an obligation to 
contact Mr N immediately.  But Mr N did not accept  that outcome, and he asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  did, for much the same reasons.
I entirely accept that to have a transaction declined such  as happened to Mr N is extremely  
embarrassing, so I can well understand  the distress this must have caused him (especially 
given that he explains the item was to be a gift for his son).   At least  in part because of this 
likely impact on customers,  banks should have proper and robust  systems in place to help 
detect instances  where  there appears to be a potential risk of fraud.
Barclays has explained why, at the time, Mr Ns account  and the transaction in question   
were identified as carrying  a higher potential risk of fraud.  I can understand its reasoning  for 
this; as the bank  says,  its relatively  unusual for a card account to have a credit balance and, 
moreover, I note that many of the transactions on Mr Ns account  are often relatively  small.
So, in all the circumstances,  I do not believe that  of itself  it was wrong  for Barclays to 
have identified the transaction in question as potentially fraudulent, and therefore to have 
declined it.
On the question of whether or not the bank should have contacted  Mr N more quickly than 
it did, I agree  that the position  is as the adjudicator set out.  The terms and conditions of 
Mr Ns account say that it will contact  customers in one of a number of ways   including,  but 
not only, by way of an automated call within 60 seconds.  So,  again,  I find I am unable  to 
Ref: DRN86779932conclude that the bank  acted wrongly  over this  even though Mr N might have been 
contacted differently, and more rapidly,  on a previous occasion.
Barclays has already  made  a couple  of payments to Mr N totalling £35, but he seeks  a great 
deal more than that  in part to offset  the loss of the discount to which he has referred.   
However, in all the circumstances I do not believe that it would be right for me to make  such  
a substantial award in his favour.  I say this chiefly because, as I have outlined, I do not 
consider that Barclays acted wrongly in declining the transaction or by not contacting Mr N 
immediately.  I do not therefore accept that the bank should fairly be held liable for the 
claimed consequential loss of the discount.  I  also note that Mr N did, in any event, pursue 
matters quickly himself;  he contacted  Barclays the following day (3 January) to raise his 
concerns.  So,  overall, I do not consider that it would be appropriate for me to require 
Barclays to pay Mr N any more than it has already done.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8677993