K820x#14complaint
In 2002, Mr R took out a mortgage  with Santander  UK Plc (Santander), then trading as 
Abbey National.  At the same time,  Santander  sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Mr R thinks  that Santander mis-sold  this policy to him and he wants  it to refund him 
all the premiums he has paid for it, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Rs complaint. The adjudicator  didnt 
think that Santander had mis-sold the policy and didnt recommend that it should give Mr R 
any money back. Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case. So it has come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Rs case. Ive looked into everything that Mr R and Santander have  sent us 
or told us about  the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Mr R took out his mortgage  and bought  the PPI policy over sixteen years ago and not 
surprisingly neither  Santander nor Mr R have been  able to send us much paperwork  from 
that time.  However, Mr R has told us that from memory he thinks that Santander added PPI 
to his mortgage during a meeting  and that Santander almost  stated that as a first time 
buyer it was mandatory  (for him) to have (PPI). Hes also told us that he didnt know  he had 
PPI. 
Santander has agreed with Mr R that it sold him PPI at a meeting about the mortgage, but 
without any records from the time,  I dont  know what Santander did or didnt say to Mr R. 
However, I have seen an example of the type of PPI application  form that Santander says it 
was using in or around 2002  when  it sold PPI alongside a mortgage.  This form was separate  
from paperwork about the mortgage  and I think its very likely that Mr R completed  a form 
like this. It seems  to me that the form made it clear that PPI was optional  and Mr R could 
have applied  for his mortgage with or without buying the policy. So I think Santander 
probably gave  Mr R a choice about  PPI and he chose to take it by filling out and signing the 
separate form. I fully accept that Mr R is doing  his best to remember what  happened in a 
meeting that took place a long time ago, but I dont think Santander added PPI to Mr Rs 
mortgage without  his agreement or told him it was mandatory. 
Mr R has said that he cant remember if Santander  recommended PPI to him and advised 
him to buy it. But Santander  has said that it did recommend the policy.  Again, after such  a 
long period of time I dont know for certain what happened. But if Santander did recommend 
the PPI policy  to Mr R, it would have had to check that the policy  was suitable for him and 
tell him about  it clearly  and fairly so he could decide  if he wanted to buy it. If Santander didnt 
recommend the policy to Mr R, then it wouldnt  have had to check that the policy was 
suitable for him. So in fairness  to Mr R, I have considered his complaint on the basis  that 
Santander advised him to buy PPI. 
Mr R has told us that Santander didnt take his circumstances into account during the 
meeting and didnt  factor  in his savings  and other  means he had of repaying his mortgage.  
Ref: DRN83558352I cant tell what questions  Santander did or didnt  ask Mr R about his financial situation, so I 
have looked into the policys features and what Mr R has told us about  his circumstances to 
see if it was reasonable  for Santander to recommend the policy to him. 
The policy had eligibility criteria which Mr R met and he doesnt seem to have been  caught 
out by any of its main  exclusions  or limitations,  such  as those which may have affected 
people who were self employed or in ill health.  He also seems to have been able to afford  to 
pay for the policy.
Mr R has told us that he had no need for the policy as he had some savings which he had 
inherited and that his family could have  helped him to repay his mortgage  if necessary. I fully 
accept that these resources could have  been  useful for Mr R, but I dont think they made it 
unreasonable for Santander to recommend PPI to him. He may have needed his savings for 
other things,  particularly if he had lost his income  from work,  and the policy would have  
allowed him to keep them set aside for other uses if he had made a successful claim. And 
while Mr Rs family may well have wanted to help, their own financial circumstances may 
have changed  and made it difficult. 
Similarly, I understand that if Mr R was off work ill his employer  would have paid him sick 
pay for several months;  but the policy would have paid out over and above Mr Rs sick pay 
and could have  lasted for longer. So I still think it was reasonable for Santander to 
recommend PPI to Mr R despite  his entitlement to sick pay. 
When Mr R took his mortgage, he was borrowing a large amount of money for a long time, 
secured against  his home, so the effect of not keeping up the repayments couldve been  
serious for him. So given everything I know  about  Mr Rs situation, I think  it was reasonable 
for Santander to recommend PPI to him. 
Mr R has also complained  that Santander didnt go through  (the policys) costs  and benefits 
with him. I fully accept  that Santander  may not have explained everything about PPI to Mr R 
as clearly as it should have done.  But, Im satisfied  that he was eligible for the policy, that he 
could afford  it, that Santander gave him a choice about it and that it was reasonable for 
Santander to recommend  it to him. So I dont  think that clearer  information about the policy 
would have stopped Mr R from buying  it. I dont  think  Santander  mis-sold  PPI to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im not upholding  Mr Rs complaint about  Santander 
UK Plc. Im not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8355835