K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited will not repair  her car 
despite there being a known fault from before  she acquired it under a hire purchase 
agreement.
background
Mrs R acquired  a used Smart  car from a Mercedes  dealership in March 2015. The car was 
about a year old at the time and had done 4,110 miles. The total payable for the car was 
£8,291.96 and Mrs R took out a hire purchase agreement for this over three years. 
In June 2015 a service  measure was issued, Service measure 602, as in some  cars 
vibrations in the belt drive system may have led to premature wear  and tear and a failure of 
the Poly-V-belt.  Mrs R was written to in May 2016 asking for the car to be booked in for the 
service measure to be carried out. 
Mrs R says she never received this letter. But she did receive an e-mail that was sent to her 
and she booked her car in for June 2017. But she was unable  to attend this appointment as 
shed had an unrelated accident and she didnt drive. Mrs R was written to a third time in 
November 2017  but the letter  was returned as undeliverable.
In May 2018  Mrs R was driving her car on the M25 when  it started  to bellow  thick black  
smoke and it lost all power. Mrs R had to be recovered back  home  as it was a Sunday  and 
the garage wasnt open. The mechanic carried out an inspection  and found  the tensioner  
had snapped and the belt had frayed.  Mrs R arranged for the car to be taken to a Mercedes 
dealership and initial indications were that it would carry out a repair.  However, it was found 
the engine needed replacing and as the service measure hadnt  been carried out the 
dealership was only willing to pay 50% of the cost.
Mrs R complained to Mercedes. She said she had been sold a car it knew  was faulty  as 
thousands of cars had been recalled in China in 2014 for the same  issue. She had also 
come across  other  articles and information on-line  which she said supported her view that 
Mercedes knew of this issue  before she acquired  the car. Mercedes didnt uphold  the 
complaint. It said it wasnt aware of the service  measure when she acquired the vehicle  and 
doesnt agree it was sold under false pretences. It said it had provided numerous 
notifications of the service  measure  needing  to be carried out but this wasnt  done.  It 
considered the dealerships offer to cover  50% of the repair costs to be fair and reasonable.
Mrs R asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He 
wasnt persuaded the evidence showed Mercedes knew  of the problem before Mrs R 
acquired her car, although he did accept it likely had a fault at the time. But as Mrs R hadnt  
had the service measure  completed,  he didnt  think Mercedes needed to do anything to put 
this right.
Mrs R asked for the matter to be reviewed,  reiterating her previous points. She also said that 
when she had to cancel her booking to have the service measure completed she was 
reassured the car was still safe to drive and argued that she wouldnt have extended her 
finance agreement  had she known otherwise. Since  the matter  has been  referred  to me I 
asked Mrs R to provide information about  her accident and for how long she had driven the 
car for, before she broke down. Mrs R has provided a text screen  shot showing a physio 
appointment for 17 May 2018. She says this was her final appointment and she didnt drive 
Ref: DRN85211832her car while she was under the physio.  She explained she made  a short  trip to the shop  
(less than a mile) and it was on her second trip that the car broke  down. 
I issued my second provisional decision  on 10 May 2019, explaining why I was still minded 
to uphold this complaint  but awarding different  redress because Mercedes had sold the car 
at auction, despite my first provisional  decision  requiring a repair.  Both parties have 
responded which I summarise below.  
From Mercedes:
It doesnt believe it fair I have placed  a lot of weight  on the testimony of Mrs R. There  
are a number of significant coincidences that have resulted  in what appears to be a 
perfect storm and would call into the question the credibility of the statements. 
Other than a text which  it hasnt had sight of, there is no evidence of when Mrs Rs 
accident occurred,  the nature of it or what prevented  her from driving.
The vehicle had done about 30,000 miles yet the testimony is that it wasnt driven for 
11 months. So it has asked for evidence  of the accident or injuries.
There is no evidence a service  was carried out at any time during the three  years. 
Whilst it accepts that services can and will be carried out away from its network it 
would expect there to be some evidence. It finds it hard to believe Mrs R would have 
done 30,000 miles  in 24 months  and it can see no evidence that she was not driving  
during that period. 
It had argued that there was no evidence the service measure was directly  linked to 
the failings  but has since withdrawn  this argument. 
It considers there is a dispute over whether  the appointment  was actually cancelled 
as Mrs R could simply  have not attended  the dealership on the agreed date. 
From Mrs R:
She believes Mercedes should also refund the deposit  she paid as she bought  a 
defective car. 
As Mercedes sold the car, and even with a provisional decision in her favour, she is 
in a worse position as she is carless. 
She doesnt believe it fair that money  awarded as compensation or repayments  
should have to serve as a deposit for a new car elsewhere.
She confirmed following her accident she was diagnosed as having a broken wrist 
and ligament damage to her knee. Her physiotherapy was a long drawn  out process 
due to the injuries sustained.
The car had been  serviced.  The contract wasnt that she was only allowed  to drive 
10,000 miles a year but if she averaged more than that and returned it she would 
have to pay excess mileage costs. She drove  to other parts of the country  to visit 
family members. 
The information about Mrs Rs accident and mileage  was sent to Mercedes including a copy 
of the text (although it had already had sight of this as it made  comments on it in response to 
the first provisional decision) but it hasnt provided  any further comments  for my 
consideration.
As before I will respond the points made in the body of my findings below. 
Ref: DRN85211833my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further responses to 
my second  provisional  decision, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Having  done so, I uphold this complaint and award  the same  compensation. 
Mrs R acquired  the car using a hire purchase  agreement in March  2015. As the finance 
provider, Mercedes is responsible for the quality  of the car provided.  Because of the date of 
the agreement  the relevant legislation is the Supply of Goods  (Implied Terms) Act 1973 and, 
in summary, this means the car provided using  the agreement should be of satisfactory 
quality (free from minor defects, be safe and durable, and fit for the purpose  for which  they 
were supplied).  
When deciding whether something was of satisfactory quality, there  are a number of factors  
to take into account,  such  as the age and mileage of the car. This car was one year old and 
had only done  4,110 miles so I wouldnt  expect  it to have shown much  in the way of wear  
and tear. Mercedes wouldnt  be responsible for any wear  and tear as this isnt a defect or 
fault, but it would  be responsible for any defect or faults you wouldnt  expect  (or reasonably 
be aware of) for a car of this age and mileage. 
Mrs R argued  that Mercedes was aware  of a fault with her car when she acquired  it. I didnt  
agree. The information Mrs R provided related to a recall in China, not in the UK. The 
Chinese recall involved vehicles built there and so would be subject to the vagaries of 
production in a different factory. I also considered the forum information but this was 
generally individual people with individual problems. I read the link which set out a number of 
issues with Smart cars and I noted  Mrs R had relied  on this information  to show  that 
Mercedes had tried fixing  this problem previously. But that information  wasnt from an 
independent or impartial  source, and I noted bad language was used in the article. I 
therefore didnt  find the information  persuasive and wasnt persuaded the evidence she 
relied on showed Mercedes knowingly sold her a car it knew  was faulty.  
Mercedes issued a service measure to prevent possible premature wear or failure of the 
Poly-V-belt. I understood this measure was issued in June 2015 and neither party  corrected 
me on this. This was only three months  after Mrs R acquired her car. So it seemed entirely 
plausible there  was an issue with the belt drive system at the time Mrs R acquired it. Indeed,  
I noted when Mercedes inspected the car, it said the car breaking down was as a result of 
the service measure not being carried out. Given  that, I think there was a defect at the point 
of sale and so the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality. 
I found Mercedes  argument that Mrs R had 15 months of use of the vehicle and so it wasnt 
a fault present at the point  of sale rather disingenuous. I agreed Mercedes didnt send Mrs R 
the service measure until 2016  but it first came out in June 2015, just three  months after 
she acquired the car. It was its decision to leave notifying Mrs R for so long. The opening 
paragraph of the letter said:
At smart we continually monitor the performance  of our cars and pay particular 
attention to any issues that could have an impact on the reliability  of your car. 
Despite careful quality control during  production of our products, a technical problem 
has unfortunately been identified which we would like to resolve immediately. 
So Mercedes own service measure  referred to the production of its products and that a 
technical problem  had been  identified.  Im satisfied, therefore, that the problem with Mrs Rs 
Ref: DRN85211834car had been  there since production and was likely as a result  of a design  fault or other  
manufacturing problem.  
Usually, Mercedes would  be responsible for putting that right.  However, I needed to consider 
whether the service measure being  issued  and which alerted Mrs R to a potential problem 
was an intervening act, such  that the burden for rectifying the defect and any damage it 
subsequently caused shifted to her.
I gave very careful consideration to this and took note of the content of the service  measure 
notification and what Mrs R told us of subsequent  conversations she had. I think if there had 
been a product recall, or if the service measure  informed Mrs R that her car might not have 
been safe to drive without the measure  being  completed, then I might find it fair that her not 
having that done means Mercedes is no longer responsible for the cost of any repairs.  
But I dont find that a fair outcome here. Mrs R said she didnt receive  any of the letters  sent 
to her about the service measure. I understood the first letter was sent in May 2016 (not 
June as previously  said).  Mercedes records indicated this was sent correctly to Mrs R and 
usually we would find correctly address mail is correctly  delivered.  But Mercedes said it also 
sent a letter  in November 2016, however  it has no record of this  so its far from certain this 
was even sent. And I know that another letter sent in November 2017 was returned as 
undelivered, despite it being addressed correctly.   So I thought there  was some doubt 
whether the letter sent in May 2016 reached Mrs R.
Mercedes considered there was sufficient evidence that the first letter would have  arrived.  
But I found the evidence weighed more  in favour  of her not receiving the first letter.  
Mercedes still hasnt  been able to provide any records  that it wrote to her in November  2016.  
And it isnt in dispute that the letter sent a year later was returned as undelivered. So I 
remained of the view there was doubt  the letter sent in 2016 reached  Mrs R, even if it was 
sent. 
Mrs R did book her car in for the service  measure in June 2017  after receiving an e-mail 
about this. But she couldnt attend the appointment as she had an unrelated accident and so 
she didnt drive. She says she spoke  with the dealership who reassured  her the service 
measure was preventative and the car was still safe to drive. I considered this entirely 
plausible.
The service  measure notification said:
We have established  that on some  cars it is possible that under certain operating 
conditions, vibrations in the belt drive system may lead to premature wear or possibly 
to failure of the Poly-V-belt. As a result, the alternator and the water pump will no 
longer operate. In the event of a Poly-V-belt failure you would be notified by the 
respective indicator lamps in the instrument cluster. We believe your car could be 
affected by this concern.  
This didnt  seem overly  alarming and certainly  didnt  indicate the type of damage Mrs Rs car 
subsequently experienced to be possible.  And I bore in mind that Mercedes itself didnt write 
to Mrs R until a year after the service measure  was introduced, which  didnt seem indicative 
of an issue that could cause extensive damage  to the engine  or that there was any urgency 
in needing the measure  completed.  And Mrs R told us, and I accepted, that when she had to 
cancel her appointment she was reassured  that her car was safe to drive  that she could 
book her car in another time. So although  I agreed with Mercedes that a customer  was 
Ref: DRN85211835legally responsible for making sure their car was kept in a safe condition and was safe to 
drive, I hadnt been provided with any evidence Mercedes warned her it wasnt or that 
extensive damage could be caused. Had it done so, I found  Mrs R would have acted with 
much more urgency.  
Mercedes hadnt  been able to find any records of a call with Mrs R and the dealership  and 
so it concluded  the call/s  never took place. That seemed an overly negative inference  from 
the evidence available. Not being able to find a recording  of a call simply evidences  that a 
call recording  isnt available or the call wasnt recorded, not that a call didnt take place. And 
given Mrs R had to cancel  the appointment, Im satisfied its more likely  than not that she did 
speak with the dealership. I remained satisfied that Mrs Rs testimony was plausible, 
particularly given the content of the service  measure itself. 
Mercedes finds the amount  of weight I have placed  on Mrs Rs testimony  to be unfair. It 
argues there is no evidence she cancelled her appointment; she could simply have decided  
to not turn up. I would firstly say it is for me to decide what weight I place on what  evidence. 
Mrs R has been consistent  with her testimony throughout. But its clear from what Ive said 
above that that isnt all I have considered. I have taken into account the information provided 
by Mercedes and the content and tone of the service measure in reaching my findings, 
alongside the other information provided  by Mrs R that I didnt find persuasive. I do accept  
that some  customers may simply  not turn up to an appointment.  But I find Mrs Rs testimony 
persuasive. Mercedes  argument  is purely speculation; it hasnt provided any evidence from 
the dealership  that Mrs R missed her appointment or was a no show.  
I was mindful that Mrs R didnt finish her physio until 17 May 2018   and I understood she 
didnt drive whilst she was still having  that treatment.  So there  were  only three days between  
Mrs R starting  to drive again  and the car breaking  down. Mrs R told us she only drove  the 
car once  to the shop before it broke  down  on its next journey. It appeared she did very little 
driving between  the car being  booked  in for the service measure and when it subsequently 
broke down.  I wasnt persuaded Mrs R continuing  to drive the car meant it was now fair for 
her bare the cost of repair. I said this because the potential for the engine  failure  to happen 
would have been as likely  en-route to the dealership  and Mercedes had tasked  Mrs R with 
taking the car there under its own steam. I therefore found that Mrs Rs actions didnt negate 
Mercedes fundamental obligation to provide goods  of satisfactory  quality, or that the service 
measure itself meant there was an intervening act such that the burden  for meeting repair 
costs should fairly  shift to Mrs R.
Mercedes referred to me finding there was evidence that Mrs R couldnt  drive but it wasnt  
persuaded by the text screen shot provided. There was no dispute  that Mrs R cancelled  her 
service measure appointment because of her accident. And the text screen shot was 
evidence of her last appointment. And her testimony about whether she drove or not was 
also evidence. Mercedes  hadnt provided  me with any reason why that evidence should 
have been called into question, such as evidence that Mrs R drove the car or that it had 
done many  miles since being  booked in for the service measure.  
Mercedes now says it believes that Mrs R may have driven the car during the period she 
said she wasnt. It has referred  to the mileage  done since  the car was acquired in support of 
this. But it hasnt provided any further  comments on the details of Mrs Rs accident or injuries 
or that she drove  to other parts  of the country  to visit family. I haver therefore proceeded on 
the basis it has nothing  further to say about these points. 
Ref: DRN85211836The text screen shot provided by Mrs R is contemporaneous evidence  that she had been 
receiving medical treatment. She has explained  her injuries and I accept that damage to a 
knee (and to the wrist)  is likely to have  some impact on whether or not a person can, or 
should, drive. Mercedes asserts that Mrs R drove during the period in question, but it hasnt 
provided any persuasive evidence in support of this  such  as evidence the mileage 
increased between  Mrs R originally booking the car in for the service measure and its 
breakdown. And given  Mrs Rs explanation that she drove across country to visit family  
members, Im satisfied explanation has been provided for mileage done.  I remain satisfied 
there isnt persuasive  evidence Mrs R drove during the period in question. 
Mercedes argued  the car hasnt been serviced in line with the agreement. The finance 
agreement we have  been provided with is of poor quality  and so not all the terms and 
conditions were legible. But I could  see the agreement said:
The vehicle must be serviced and maintained  in accordance with smart published 
service intervals within the Official  Workshop  network. Details of the required service 
schedules can be found in the owners  manual supplied with the vehicle. Full details of 
the locations of smart Official Workshops  can be found at www.thesmart.co.uk. Failure to 
fulfil this obligation may result in a charge to compensate us for the loss we incur as a 
result of the disposal of the vehicle. 
So I accept  the agreement says the car should have been serviced at an Official Workshop. 
But I questioned  whether  such  a term was fair. Many  people use independent garages to 
complete work on vehicles and Mrs R was aware  there might be a cost to her if she chose to 
do so. That Mrs R chose to use an independent garage didnt mean the car hadnt been 
serviced. Unfortunately, it appeared  Mrs Rs service  records  for the car went  missing  at the 
dealership.  
Mercedes believes there are significant coincidences that call into question  the credibility  of 
Mrs Rs testimony.  It has referred to there being no evidence that Mrs R had her car 
serviced. Although  it noted the comments about the garage being under new ownership and 
the previous owner passing away, it would  still expect there to be some evidence. And it 
says this only explains one service not the servicing  for three years.  
I have never  previously said, nor has Mr R submitted,  that she only had her car serviced  
once in the garage she used. That appears  to be an assumption made by Mercedes. And, 
whilst maybe coincidental,  retail owners  do pass away and as a new owner wouldnt be 
responsible for what the previous owner did, they wouldnt need to keep records.  I have 
previously managed to locate information that Mrs R had her car MOTd in February 2018 
(this information is no longer appearing on the government website).  I have no reason to 
doubt she had it serviced  as well. And as Mercedes is alleging  she never  had it serviced, it 
would be for it to provide persuasive  evidence  in support of that.  
I have carefully considered the arguments made  by Mercedes in response to both of my 
provisional decision. But nothing has caused  me to alter my provisional findings that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  My reaching  a finding that Mercedes is responsible  for bearing  
the costs associated with the fault in no way suggests that customers  can simply ignore 
recalls or service  measures  - or that in all those situations a customer  would be entitled  to 
reject a car. My findings solely relate to this complaint and its circumstances.
Other matters
Ref: DRN85211837Mercedes had said it was confused how it should put this matter  right after receiving my first 
provisional decision which required a repair  and a later email  which  referred to the car being 
returned.
At the time of issuing  my first provisional decision,  neither party  had made me aware that the 
car had been  returned to the dealership  as the agreement had come to an end. And so that 
wasnt something I could  take account  of in my first provisional decision. I was made aware  
of that and other matters, which I felt I needed  to comment  on. My first provisional decision 
required Mercedes repair the car at no additional cost to Mrs R. So I found its decision to 
proceed with the sale of the car extremely unhelpful  and disappointing.  It knew  the content of 
my first provisional  decision and should have ensured nothing  happened with the car prior to 
me reaching  a final decision. Im not persuaded it couldnt have prevented the sale of the car 
given it was the owner. I was also disappointed that Mercedes  continued  to send 
correspondence to Mrs R asking for payment in relation to the damaged condition of the car, 
and this continued after we had asked  it stop.  These are matters  I took account of in 
reaching fair compensation, as this had added further to Mrs Rs distress about  this matter.
how Mercedes needs to put matters right
Mrs R has asked that I require Mercedes to also refund  the deposit she paid for the car. In 
doing so she has referred to other  decisions reached by this service.  
I would explain that all cases  are decided on their own facts  and circumstances. That we 
might have awarded a refund of the deposit  in other  cases, doesnt mean it is appropriate in 
all cases. And whether  the deposit  ought to be refunded  was something I had already 
thought about (if not mentioned) when  reaching what  I consider  to be appropriate 
compensation. Here  Mrs R had done an additional  30,000 miles since acquiring the car. As 
pointed out by Mercedes that is a fair amount  of mileage for a short  space of time.  Had the 
car not had many  additional miles before breaking down, I might have been  minded to award 
a refund of the deposit. But here, Mrs R has had significant use of car during the time she 
was driving and so I dont  find it would be fair to award a refund of the deposit also.  
As I have found that Mercedes didnt provide a car of satisfactory quality  when Mrs R 
acquired it, it needs to put right what has gone wrong. When  deciding  whats fair Ive borne 
in mind that its neither parties fault Mrs R had an accident and couldnt get the service 
measure completed  in June 2017.  Ive also taken into account that Mercedes sold the car. 
With that in mind, I require Mercedes  to:
Write  off any outstanding balance  that Mercedes has invoiced Mrs R for in relation to 
the car. That includes the damage  fees. 
Mrs R has been without a working  car since 20 May 2018. And although she 
originally wanted the car repaired and returned  thats no longer possible as the car 
has been sold. So Mercedes needs to refund each  car finance repayment Mrs R has 
made since May 2018. It also needs  to add 8% simple interest on each  of those 
payments from the date they were made until the date of settlement.
Mercedes also needs to pay Mrs R an amount  equivalent to her insurance costs  for 
the time the car couldnt be used, on provision of reasonable evidence  of those costs.    
Mrs R has been caused  inconvenience by not having a working  car and I find she 
should be fairly compensated for the inconvenience. I also find she should be 
compensated for the distress  this matter has caused. It must have been extremely 
worrying and concerning to breakdown on the motorway and lose all power to the 
Ref: DRN85211838car. Im not surprised  Mrs R has been traumatised  by this given what  could have 
happened. To subsequently find that she hadnt been properly warned of the damage 
that could have been caused by the defect only added to her worry and concern. And 
since then Mercedes sold the car and invoiced Mrs R despite  being aware of my 
provisional findings. So I find Mercedes should  pay Mrs R £1,000 for the distress  and 
inconvenience this has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to pay Mrs R compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8521183