K820x#14complaint
Mr J says that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold him a regular premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 21 January 2019, a copy  extract of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
NBS have confirmed  it has nothing further to add. Mr J has responded and I have 
considered his further comments but overall  it doesnt change the outcome of his complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has responded with further comments about a pre-existing  medical condition  he 
suffered with at the time he took out his mortgage  and PPI policy. This was taken into 
consideration in my provisional decision but as the policy was included  free within the 
mortgage product  Mr J chose to take it makes no difference to the outcome of his complaint.
And as no new evidence or arguments have been provided, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision. It follows  that I do not uphold  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint  against  Nationwide  Building 
Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
In 1992 Mr J took out a mortgage  with NBS. A PPI policy to cover  his mortgage repayments  
in the event of accident or sickness and unemployment was included  free for the first 12 
months as part of the mortgage package, after which a premium became payable  and the 
policy could be cancelled.
Ref: DRN87813432Our adjudicator thought Mr Js complaint should  be upheld because  Mr J suffered from a 
pre-existing medical condition which was excluded under the terms and conditions  of the PPI 
policy. She thought  if Mr J had understood this he wouldnt have agreed to take the policy.
NBS disagree. It says the PPI policy was part of the Home to Home mortgage  package it 
offered at the time and if Mr J didnt  want  the PPI cover he was under no obligation to 
proceed with the mortgage product and could have applied for a different mortgage  or 
approached a different lender.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im currently  considering not upholding Mr Js complaint.
The PPI came free for 12 months as part of a mortgage package NBS were offering. NBS 
had to make  it clear the PPI was part of the mortgage package  and that Mr J agreed to take 
it. Neither NBS or Mr J has been  able to confirm how the mortgage package was sold which 
is understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. So Ive had to rely on 
what the mortgage product brochures show and what I think  is more  likely to have 
happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of the Home to Home  mortgage leaflet. It outlines the different mortgage 
rates on offer and explains as part of the package that PPI is included with the mortgage free 
for the first 12 months. I think that this is a good benefit and selling point of the mortgage 
package and I think it was likely  discussed  with Mr J at the time he took out the mortgage.
I also see that Mr J cancelled  the PPI policy within six months of premiums becoming  
chargeable. So I think Mr J was aware  that the policy was part of the Home to Home 
mortgage package  and I think he was happy to have the PPI during the free period because 
he wanted the Home  to Home package that was on offer. I think if he didnt want  this 
particular mortgage  package with PPI included  he could have chosen a different one or gone 
with another lender.
I dont think NBS advised Mr J on what mortgage to take. What this means  is that it didnt 
recommend a product to Mr J, it just gave him information about what was on offer.  This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could 
make an informed choice  about taking out the policy.
Ref: DRN87813433I dont know if NBS gave  all the information as it shouldve.  But I think  based on what  Ive 
seen including  the PPI leaflet outlining  the costs, benefits and main exclusions - which Mr J 
wouldve been given  at the time  that Mr J wouldve  understood enough. Its also fair to say 
that it was not uncommon for businesses  to sell mortgages as part of a package  with PPI 
included. And this is not unfair  it is up to the business to decide on what basis  they wish to 
lend to customers.
This means  I currently  dont think Mr J was any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by 
NBS.
my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  Mr Js complaint against  Nationwide  Building Society.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8781343