K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy RAC  Insurance Limited declined his claim under the garage  parts  and 
labour section of his motor breakdown insurance policy. He also thinks this part of his policy  
was mis-sold.
background
In my provisional decision of 31 January 2019,  a copy  of which  Ive attached  to this final 
decision, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part.
Mr G has accepted my decision. The RAC hasnt and has given me some comments. So   
Mr Gs complaint has come back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided  to uphold  
Mr Gs complaint in part and to award  him £100 as compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience the RACs delay in getting  the fault with his car diagnosed and repaired has 
caused him.
The RAC doesnt think its delay was exceptional  and says the current  nationwide average 
time for getting your car repaired is 12 days.  The RAC also says the garage completed the 
initial diagnosis but it was then likely they would have  had to carry out further  work  before 
they could take the photos  and send the evidence.   
But the RAC hasnt  explained what further  work the garage had to carry out that meant it 
wasnt until 6 June  that it sent photos of a clutch  fault it had diagnosed on 31 May. So Im 
still of the view that this took too long and caused Mr G distress  and inconvenience. And I 
can also see that, when  Mr G instructed the garage to carry out the repairs  (because he 
needed the car the following day), it did this on the same  day he gave  the instruction. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in this decision and in my provisional decision of 31 January 
2019, I uphold  Mr Gs complaint in part and direct RAC Insurance  Limited to pay him £100 
for the distress and inconvenience its delay in getting the fault with his car diagnosed  and 
repaired has caused him.
RAC Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr G accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple*.
Ref: DRN81562152Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
*If RAC Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
 
Ref: DRN81562153COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 31 JANUARY  2019
complaint
Mr G is unhappy RAC  Insurance Limited declined his claim under the garage  parts  and 
labour section of his motor breakdown insurance policy. He also thinks this part of his policy  
was mis-sold.
background
Mr Gs car broke down and was recovered by the RAC to an RAC approved garage. His 
RAC rescue  report said the clutch was slipping. 
Two days after the breakdown the garage  contacted the agents who administered the 
garage parts and labour  part of the policy for the RAC to say the clutch would need to be 
replaced. The RACs agents said they would  need  photos of the clutch  friction  plate and 
pressure plate and the failed clutch components so they could  decide  if the RAC  would 
support the claim. 
On the same  day, Mr G says the garage told him hed be responsible for paying for the 
repairs if his claim  was declined. The RACs agents  confirmed this in a phone  call with Mr G. 
Mr G was concerned about the estimated cost of the repairs  and believed the garage wanted 
to change parts that didnt need changing. The RACs agents advised Mr G he could 
complain directly to the RAC if he was unhappy with the service  the garage  was giving and 
see if his car could be towed elsewhere.
Just under a week later,  the garage asked  Mr G to forward to the RACs agents  the photos  it 
had asked for, along with a short video and the cars most recent service record. It also told 
him hed have to pay for the repairs himself  if he wanted the car back  the same day. Mr G 
says he needed  his car quickly and had to agree. 
In phone conversations  with the RACs agents  on the same day the garage said, in its view, 
the clutch had failed due to reaching  the end of its normal working life. On looking  at the 
photos and video, the RACs  agents reached the same view.  So the RAC declined  Mr Gs 
claim.
Mr G says his clutch failure was due to the sudden failure of parts, rather than wear  and tear, 
and he wants to be refunded for the repair costs.  He says the garage took too long to carry 
out the repairs and he was coerced into paying  for them.  And he thinks  the policy  was mis-
sold because the RAC  didnt  bring  the exclusion  for wear and tear to his attention when  he 
bought it so he wants all his premiums back.
When Mr G complained to the RAC, it partially  upheld his complaint. It said it had declined 
his claim in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the policy. But it said the garage 
shouldnt have charged him £54 for diagnostic  tests it carried out, because the policy  
covered one hours labour  for the garage to diagnose the fault. And it offered Mr G £50 in 
compensation because the garage  had asked Mr G to send the photos and video evidence 
to the RACs agents when  the correct process was for the garage  to send it this information 
itself. The RAC didnt agree it had mis-sold Mr G the garage  labour and parts  policy but, as a 
gesture of goodwill, when Mr G cancelled the policy, it refunded  him his premium of £28 from 
his last renewal date. I understand the RAC  has refunded  Mr G a total of £132.
Ref: DRN81562154Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr G complained to us. The investigator who looked  at Mr Gs 
complaint didnt uphold it. He thought the RAC  had acted fairly and reasonably within  the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mr G has therefore asked  for an ombudsman to decide his complaint. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
When Mr Gs car broke down and couldnt be fixed at the roadside it was towed to an RAC 
approved garage. This was within the terms of Mr Gs breakdown  cover. 
The garage parts and labour policy Mr G bought excluded any covered part that had failed 
due to it reaching the end of its normal working  life. The garage concluded the clutch was 
worn out and had reached the end of its normal working life. The RACs agents reached  the 
same conclusion. And this is why the RAC declined Mr Gs claim.
I should emphasise at this point that my role here isnt to decide  whether or not Mr Gs clutch 
had reached the end of its normal working  life. Its to decide whether the RAC acted fairly 
and reasonably in reaching that conclusion itself and so declining Mr Gs claim. The garage 
had concluded  the clutch was worn.  The RACs agents talked with the garage,  and one of its 
engineers reviewed the photographic and video evidence.  And on the basis  of these 
engineers opinions and the photographic  and video evidence, it was concluded the clutch  
had reached the end of its working life. I think it was fair and reasonable of the RAC to rely 
on these opinions and evidence to decline Mr Gs claim. So I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint 
on this point. 
I understand Mr G is frustrated he had to pay for the repairs  at a garage that wasnt of his 
choosing when, in the end, his claim was unsuccessful. But, ultimately, this was his decision. 
He wanted to make a claim  and it was within the policy terms for the RAC to select  an 
approved garage  at which to have the work  done. And it was reasonable for it to want 
evidence on which to assess  the claim.  I also dont  think it was unreasonable  for the garage 
to advise Mr G he would  have to pay for the repairs if his claim was declined.  Mr G was 
advised by the RACs  agents early on that he could complain to the RAC directly if he was 
unhappy with the service  the garage was giving and see if his car could be towed elsewhere. 
But he chose not to do this. So, although I appreciate Mr G was in a difficult  position 
especially because he needed his car quickly, I dont think  he was coerced into paying for 
the repairs and so I dont uphold his complaint  on this point. 
Mr G says the garage took too long to carry out the repairs. I agree with him. His car broke 
down on 29 May and the garage identified the fault two days later.  But it wasnt until 6 June, 
almost a week later, that it sent in the photos  the RACs agents  had asked for on 31 May. I 
havent seen any explanation from the RAC  for this delay. And I think it put Mr G under some 
pressure, especially since he says he needed  the car to go on holiday on 7 June. So I intend  
to award Mr G £100 for the distress  and inconvenience the RACs delay caused him.
I also think it was right of the RAC to reimburse Mr G £54 for the diagnostic  tests he was 
charged for by the garage in error,  since these  were covered by the policy.  And I think  it was 
Ref: DRN81562155right of the RAC to give Mr G £50 in compensation because he had to send  the RAC 
evidence the garage shouldve sent itself.
Mr G says the garage parts and labour part of his policy,  which he bought online, was mis-
sold because the exception for wear and tear wasnt brought to his attention.  The RAC has 
shown us a screenshot of what it says Mr G wouldve seen when he selected  the cover. I 
think its likely he saw something like it. It features a pop-up message stating clearly that 
wear and tear is excluded  from the policy. So I think this important exclusion was brought  to 
Mr Gs attention at the time he bought the policy and therefore it wasnt  mis-sold. I 
understand that, when Mr G cancelled this part of the policy, the RAC refunded his premium 
of £28 from his last renewal date as a gesture of goodwill. I think  this is fair and reasonable.
One final point  is that Mr G mentions he wants to be reimbursed for his hire car costs.  I dont 
have any information  about how he came to hire a car or what these costs were.  So Mr G 
should get in touch  with the RAC about this in the first instance, if this is something he thinks  
his insurance shouldve covered him for and he wants to take it further.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend  to direct RAC Insurance Limited  to pay Mr G £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience its delay in getting his car repaired has caused him.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8156215