K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Legal and General Assurance  Society Limiteds (the business) 
refusal to refund his premiums with interest, as a result of its error.    
background
The business has in fact offered to refund the premiums but Mr C feels hes owed further 
compensation.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
The business application  form asked if Mr C intended to leave the UK permanently 
and how long he intended to be out of the UK, over the next two years.  Mr C 
confirmed that he didnt intend  to leave the UK permanently but was planning to be 
away for the next two years. He also signed  a document confirming that he was a UK 
resident, as required. 
Having considered and compared  this to the business underwriting  guidance  it was 
clear that it only intended to cover people that paid some form of UK taxes. However  
this wasnt clear  from the questions asked on the form about  residency  meaning in 
simple terms whether or not the consumer was a UK tax payer. This needed to be 
clear on the business  form and declaration. 
Although Mr C was concerned that the business, in light of this ambiguity, would 
refuse to pay out in the event of a claim, she was satisfied that our service would 
expect it to honour any valid claim in light of its unclear form. 
Whilst it must have been  frustrating  for Mr C, the business offer to refund the 
premiums was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view. He feels hes been  discriminated against and 
that he is due interest  on the refund of premiums. He also feels a crime has been committed 
by the business and it shouldnt determine his residency.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions. Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied the business offer to refund the 
premiums is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr C is concerned about what could have happened,  if a claim had been made 
and the business refused to honour  it because of its ambiguous application. But thankfully  
that situation hasnt materialised and Mr C hasnt suffered  a loss. In the circumstances I 
cant compensate him for loss that he might have suffered.   
Ref: DRN82443092Im satisfied that even  though the business was on risk for the period in question, and was 
more likely (than not ) to pay out in the event of a valid claim,  it has taken an executive and 
generous decision  to refund Mr Cs premiums which I think  is fair and reasonable. I dont 
think the business doubts that Mr C had provided  open  and honest  answers  to the 
questions. 
I note Mr Cs point about interest payment, but I dont think  its fair in the circumstances 
where the refund of premiums  is effectively a gesture of good will. 
Its now a matter for Mr C whether or not he still wants cover in the future.  Im mindful of 
Mr Cs other  comments  but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that hes been discriminated 
against. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8244309