K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about how she was treated by Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) over her Barclaycard debt.
background
Ms S took out a Barclaycard credit  card and fell into arrears. 
She contacted this service and told our investigator that she had multiple complaints against 
Barclaycard. 
She said that her debt had been  outstanding since 2009 and because  it was so old, it should 
be written off. 
She also said that Barclaycard had taken too long to pay her PPI claim. Having declined the 
claim for years, she said, it was only when she involved a claims management company, 
that they paid the compensation. She said this wasnt her principal complaint, but she 
wanted to bring  this to our attention.
Her final complaint  was, that she says, Barclaycard hadnt registered a default with a credit 
reference agency until 2015,  and this impacted her ability to obtain credit. She felt that the 
debt should be statute barred as six years  had passed between  the debt being  incurred  and 
it being registered.
Ms S also told our investigator of her multiple health issues  and she said that she had told 
Barclaycard in multiple phone calls of the problems she was having with her personal 
circumstances and her health.  She also said that she had sent them a doctors letter  
supporting her claim.
Barclaycard said Ms S fell into debt in 2007 and entered  into payment plans with them. In 
January 2013,  Barclaycard reduced  the rate of interest on the account  on condition the 
agreed monthly payments were made. 
In July 2013 Ms S made a successful PPI claim, and Barclaycard sent her a cheque with a 
cover letter saying, this refund  will not be reflected on your Barclaycard account  statement.  
Ms S continued with her repayment  plan until March 2014, when the payments stopped, so 
Barclaycard applied the original rate of interest  to the account. 
In 2014, Ms S told Barclaycard that she was experiencing financial difficulties and she 
wished that that the debt had been deducted from the PPI compensation. 
She explained that she was unemployed, had been rejected for an IVA, was no longer 
dealing with a debt management company and was generally struggling  to make ends meet. 
Barclaycards notes  do not show any further contact  with Ms S until almost three years later,  
when Barclaycard informed Ms S by letter,  that the debt was being  sold to a third party.
Ms S complained to Barclaycard twice. In her first telephone complaint, she said that they 
had refused to allow her to use her PPI compensation  to clear the debt and as the default on 
her account  was registered too late, it affected her credit rating.   She also said that her debt 
Ref: DRN81285412had been sold and Barclaycard hadnt asked her about her health and personal issues. She 
told them  that she was living  on a small pension and unhappy with the balance  remaining on 
her account,  which  she said should  be written off.
In her second call, she complained about  the balance outstanding on her account. She said 
that she hadnt received any statements and mentioned her physical and mental  health  
issues and the fact that she hadnt been  able to obtain an overdraft because  of the late 
registration. She said it had taken  Barclaycard  over 5 years to pay her PPI compensation. 
She complained that Barclaycard were trying to keep her debt active. 
Barclaycard wrote two final response  letters, one in February 2018 and one in July 2018.
In the first final response letter,  they didnt uphold  her complaint because they said that they 
hadnt breached  any rules  or guidelines  in managing the account.  They  said that they had a 
legal obligation  to report the default  to credit reference agencies, but as the account 
originally went into a repayment plan in 2011, they would remove  the Barclaycard entry on 
her file. They also said that they didnt  have any information on their records  about her 
health issues. 
In their second final response  letter, they said that they didnt uphold her complaint in 
relation to the interest and fees,  but they did uphold her overall complaint about the level of 
service that she had received and paid her £40 compensation by cheque. They  also 
apologised, as her second complaint should  not have been opened as a new complaint  and 
should have been logged  on their system  as part of the original complaint. They  said that as 
no payment was received from Ms S after April 2014, the debt was passed to their 
recoveries department later that year and then the default registered in accordance with their 
obligations.
They said they had removed the default  on her account and arranged for the third party to 
delete the default from her credit file too, but the balance was still owed to the third party,  
who now owned the account.
Ms S was unhappy  with the response  from Barclaycard and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Barclaycard didnt have to write off the 
debt just because  it was old, and she thought Barclaycard hadnt acted unreasonably in 
registering the default with the credit reference agency and selling it to the third party.
Our investigator said as the PPI claim was dealt with in 2013,  she didnt think  it was 
necessary to consider it further.  
Ms Ss health issues were of concern to our investigator. She said it was understandable 
why Ms S didnt contact  Barclaycard  because of her poor health, but if she had discussed  
the debt with them sooner, Barclaycard could have carried out a review.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators findings, she said that although her complaint 
wasnt about the PPI compensation, Barclaycard took too long to pay her, and her 
recollection is that they paid a lesser amount than they say they did. She said they wouldnt 
let her pay the debt from the compensation because they told her it was different department 
that dealt with this. She also complained that she didnt receive a compensation payment of 
£40 from the third party who had purchased the debt from Barclaycard.
Ref: DRN81285413 As Ms S was unhappy with the outcome the matter has come to me.
 
Since our investigators view was sent to the parties,  Barclaycard made the FCA aware that 
following an internal review, from October  2013, some customers did not receive the 
standard of service  they should have whilst in arrears and because Ms Ss account was 
identified as being one of these, they said they have asked the third party to  reduce the debt 
by £98.22 and they have awarded the sum of £75 compensation  to be paid directly to her 
upon receipt of a completed response form.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so I am not upholding  
this complaint, and I will explain why.
I can see that Barclaycard  made regular notes on the account until 2015,  after which contact 
with Ms S stopped and I can see that Barclaycard tried to accommodate Ms S with a 
payment plan at a reduced rate of interest,  but Ms S was unable to continue  making those  
payments. 
 
As there were no payment proposals forthcoming  from Ms S, it isnt reasonable or fair to say 
that Barclaycard  shouldnt  have sold the debt and that they should have written it off instead  
just because it was more than six years  old. I know  Ms S will be disappointed because  she 
has said that the debt is old and should be written off, but there is no obligation on a lender 
to write off a debt in these circumstances, especially as Barclaycards notes  show  that they 
were writing to her.
Ms S said that she didnt  receive any statements, but Barclaycard have provided our 
investigator with copies of the statements which have Ms Ss correct address,  and as there  
is no evidence of Ms S having disputed the amount  owed in the past, I can only find that 
Ms S has accepted  that debt amount  is the correct amount.
Ms S said that her complaint wasnt principally about  her PPI claim, but she mentioned more 
than once to our investigator  that Barclaycard took a long time to pay her claim. I can 
understand Ms Ss frustration. In 2013,  she received compensation, which she says is much  
less than Barclaycard  sent her. As I havent received any evidence that Barclays  paid the 
wrong amount,  I dont  think Barclays have done anything wrong.
In their second final response  letter  Barclaycard  have apologised to Ms S for the level of 
service she has received and sent her a cheque  in the sum of £40 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. I think this is the £40 that Ms S is referring  to when she says 
she hasnt received any money  from the third party, so I dont think there are any further  
sums due to her. 
Ms S said that she found it difficult to obtain credit because Barclaycard should have 
registered the default with a credit reference  agency much earlier, but according  to 
Barclaycard, no payments  were received from April 2014, so the account was passed to the 
recoveries team in November 2014 and a default  was registered. I dont think  Barclaycard 
acted unfairly when they issued the default notice in 2014.
In their most  recent correspondence, Barclaycard have admitted that they may not have 
supported Ms S as they should have. Ms Ss view is that this is an admission  by Barclaycard 
Ref: DRN81285414that they acted  unfairly towards her, but I think they identified her account as being one of 
many that didnt receive appropriate support and they have paid some compensation and 
reduced some of her debt. I dont think it would be fair to ask them  to write off the whole debt 
because their review was carried out from October  2013, and at this time, her debt had been 
outstanding for a long time,  so I think the compensation and reduction of the debt they have 
paid is fair in the circumstances.
I know that Ms S says she had multiple  health and personal problems and she says she tried 
to reach  agreement with Barclaycard. Barclaycards contact notes dont  show  that any 
records of Ms S getting  in touch with them about  the debt, for any reason. The only contact 
seems to be Barclaycard  sending letters  to Ms S. 
This is not to say Ms S didnt have health  issues, but as I havent  been provided with 
evidence of the contact, she says she made or the doctors letter Ms S said she sent to 
Barclaycard, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly.
my final decision
For all the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8128541