K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid)  didnt respond properly when 
he was the victim of fraud.
background 
Mr B noticed  hed received a loan of £750 from Quick Quid  into his bank account. He says 
he hadnt applied  for the loan. So Mr B rang Quick Quid straightaway.  He says he wanted to 
pay the money back immediately. Quick  Quid  told Mr B itd need to look into things  to find 
out what had happened before he could do this.
Just at this time, Mr B had some payments taken  from his bank  account;  debit card 
payments and cash withdrawals at ATMs. So he wasnt able to repay all the money as hed 
intended. He was only able to pay back £350  the day after the loan was paid into his bank.
Mr B got in touch with us and one of our adjudicators looked into things for him. There was 
some delay in progressing matters because Quick  Quid insisted Mr B report the matter to 
the police  and provide a crime reference  number.  Once this had been done,  our adjudicator 
was able to confirm an arrangement for repaying  the outstanding balance.  By this time,  Mr B 
only owed £268.
But there were then problems with Quick Quid collecting  payments from Mr B. Despite  the 
best efforts of the adjudicator, these couldnt be resolved satisfactorily  with Quick Quid. In 
particular, Mr B was concerned his credit record would be affected  by what  would be seen 
as missed payments.  So the matter was passed to an ombudsman to make final decision.
Later, Quick  Quid contacted us to say itd decided to waive the outstanding balance of £268 
as a gesture of goodwill  and remove all reference to the loan from Mr Bs credit record.
But Mr B remained unhappy about  the way Quick Quid had handled things. So its important  
those issues are still considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B feels quite  strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  hes 
said to our adjudicator.  And thats not surprising. He says hes been the victim of fraud but 
Quick Quid hasnt done anything to help him find out exactly  whats happened.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr B that I wont be asking Quick Quid  to do anything further on 
this matter. I consider  Quick Quids decision to waive the £268  Mr B owes  and remove all 
reference to the loan from his credit record is enough to resolve  this complaint.
I did ask Quick Quid for details of its investigation into the fraud that Mr B says took place.  
But it didnt respond  on this point. It simply restated what had happened in terms of the 
payments made from and to Quick Quid and its decision to waive the balance  outstanding 
and remove all reference to the loan from Mr Bs credit record.
Ref: DRN80577132In many respects this isnt helpful,  as Ive had to decide this case on the limited information 
available. And it means I cant  address fully the concerns Mr Bs raised. Im sorry about that.
Without details  of Quick  Quids investigation,  I cant say how somebody other than Mr B 
would be able to apply for the loan. But it does seem  strange that somebody unknown  to him 
would arrange  for the loan to be paid into Mr Bs bank account. Its hard to see any 
immediate benefit  to a fraudster in doing  this.
And the timing of the fraud was  in many respects   somewhat fortunate,  as it meant Mr B 
was able to pay for things  he wouldnt  otherwise have been able to (as his bank account 
would have been overdrawn). From my review  of the bank statement Mr Bs provided, the 
payments, purchases  and cash withdrawals look to be in line with his previous activity. So it 
doesnt seem anybody else benefited  from the loan.
Mr B did the right thing  in contacting Quick  Quid  and paying  back as much of the loan as 
he could. And both he and Quick Quid  then also did the right thing in agreeing  a payment  
arrangement for the outstanding balance.
What happened  to prevent Quick Quid claiming  all the required payments under that 
arrangement isnt clear  to me. I know thatll be disappointing to Mr B. I can see the problems 
here were upsetting  for him. He was, understandably, concerned his credit  record might be 
adversely affected.
But I have to balance  all of the above  with the fact Mr Bs had the outstanding balance of 
£268 on the loan waived  by Quick Quid. Thats not necessarily something I would have 
decided. Mr Bs had the benefit of the money, and  in normal  circumstances  it should  be 
repaid. And, assuming  that was the case,  its doubtful Id award Mr B as much  as £268 to 
make up for the upset  hes suffered.
I realise Mr B may be disappointed with this outcome.  I havent  been able to get to the 
bottom of exactly what happened. But, overall, I think Mr B having £268   effectively  free  
money (because he doesnt  have to repay the outstanding balance on the loan) is enough to 
resolve this complaint.
Mr B may want to take this matter further through other means. But my decision brings to an 
end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Quick Quid informally,  can do for him. Im 
sorry we cant help Mr B any further.
Ref: DRN80577133my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is that CashEuroNet  UK LLCs decision to 
waive the £268 balance outstanding on the loan taken out in Mr Bs name and removing all 
reference to it from his credit record is enough  to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8057713