K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC are holding him liable for transactions  made on a
credit card account which he says was opened  in his name without his knowledge or
consent.
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some key events here.
Mr Y says he has been a victim of impersonation fraud.  He says in August 2018; a loan and
five credit cards were  fraudulently taken out in his name. The loan provider and two other
credit card providers have accepted his claim but hes being held liable for balances totalling
just under £41,000 on the remaining three credit cards.
These credit cards were  taken with three different banks  within  the same banking  group.
Mr Y is concerned the banking group is holding him liable for all the credit  card balances
rather than catching  and holding the fraudsters accountable.
This complaint only relates to the credit card taken with Lloyds.  Whilst Mr Ys concerns are
directed at the banking group and arise from the same set of facts, because the banks
operate under separate banking licences, it was necessary for Mr Y to bring a separate
complaint about  the other banks, which is being  considered under a different complaint
reference.
Nevertheless, reference where appropriate may be made to all three credit cards,  as
businesses within the same group share  information, particularly in this case  where Mr Ys
fraud claim  in relation  to all three  credit  cards was closely linked and considered  together.
Mr Ys impersonation fraud  claim was declined. He was told that he is being held liable for
the balances on all three credit cards  because;
-all the cards, PINs  and welcome letters  were  sent to his correct home address;
-before  the cards  were approved, further verification checks  were  satisfactorily  carried  
out;
-Mr Ys legitimate driving  licence and passport details had been  provided over the 
phone; and
-his genuine  mobile number was used to register for online banking.
As Mr Y remained unhappy, he referred his complaint  to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and partially upheld it. In summary  she concluded it 
was more likely Mr Y received the card and the transactions made were consented to and 
therefore authorised  by him. And whilst  she thinks Lloyds had acted fairly in declining Mr Ys 
fraud claim, she didnt  think it had treated  him fairly by holding him liable for the full 
outstanding balance. She said several  transactions had been made after Mr Y reported that 
hed been a victim of fraud and asked  for the card to be blocked.  She recommended  any 
transactions  and associated interest, fees and charges - which were incurred after 
notification of fraud was given to Lloyds should  be deducted from the total balance due.
Ref: DRN85851592Mr Y didnt agree. He didnt think a fair outcome had been reached  by the investigator. He
maintained that hes been  the victim  of impersonation fraud and shouldnt  be held liable for
any of the transactions. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 March 2021.  I said:
  my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those reached  
by the investigator  and for broadly the same reasons. I have  concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to partially uphold this complaint.
I know my intended decision will be very disappointing for Mr Y. Having spoken to him its
clear he feels  strongly that a fair outcome has not been reached by our investigator. He
maintains his innocence and that he has been the victim of impersonation fraud. I know  he
wants Lloyds to write off the full credit card balance. But having considered the evidence and
arguments in this case, Im not currently persuaded that it would  be fair and reasonable to
say Lloyds should refund all the disputed transactions. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to assure  Mr Y Ive read and considered everything he has told me, but
the purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them - this
simply reflects the informal nature of our service. So, my findings  focus on what  I consider to
be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take
it on board  and think about it, but because I dont  think I need to comment  on it to reach  what
I think is the right outcome.
Mr Y says other credit  providers have accepted his impersonation claim and are not holding
him liable. He considers this to be relevant and cant understand why Lloyds wont do the
same. He thinks this is unfair. Whilst I can see why Mr Y might feel this way, Im afraid each
claim is decided on its own facts. So, even  if other  credit providers have accepted Mr Ys
claim and have provided him with a refund, it doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund
from Lloyds nor does this alone change the outcome Im intending to reach in this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Y doesnt accept that he can be held accountable on the assumption it was
more than likely him. But when I spoke to him, I explained that its not for me to determine
exactly what has happened, but to decide  whether Lloyds can reasonably hold him liable for
the credit  card account and the transactions  or not. I described generally, with cases  like this
I couldnt know for certain what has happened as I wasnt present when the disputed events
occurred. So, where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here.  I
need to weigh up the information that is available  and make a decision on the balance  of
probabilities. And determine what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the
circumstances of this complaint.
I note and accept  Mr Ys point that it is not his responsibility to investigate where fraud may
be occurring. But I think its important for me to clarify that it is also not this services remit to
forensically investigate the alleged fraud nor do we have the power to carry out a criminal
investigation  those are matters for the police and possibly better dealt with by a court. Mr Y
has asked me on several occasions if there  is anything else, he can provide to prove his
innocence. I must remind him that we are an impartial, informal  dispute resolution service. It
is for both parties to provide me with the evidence theyd like me to consider. My role is to
then independently decide what I believe is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
the complaint.
Ref: DRN85851593The crux of the dispute here and what I need  to decide is whether or not Lloyds has acted
unfairly in holding Mr Y liable for the disputed transactions. The regulation  that is relevant
when considering this matter  is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In short,
Lloyds is generally  required to refund any unauthorised transactions. There are some
exceptions in the regulations, but none Ive needed  to consider or that have had an impact
on the decision Im making here.
Where credit  is involved, as is the case in Mr Ys circumstances the PSRs  make provision
for the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA) to apply  in place of certain sections of the PSRs,
including those provisions  which govern  the apportionment of liability  in unauthorised
transactions. The relevant sections of the CCA  here involve a credit  facility.
The relevant  provision is section 83(1) of the CCA. This says a customer  wouldnt be
responsible for any loss arising from the use of a credit facility by another  person not acting,
or to be treated  as acting, as their agent.  But section 83(1) cant  be read in isolation.
Because as an exception  to that, section  84(2) of the CCA,  says that a customer  who gives
someone a credit token  (such as a credit  card) is liable for any use of it by that person.
Also relevant  to this complaint  is section 84(3) of the CCA, which  says 84(2) shall not apply
to any use of the credit token after the customer has put the lender  on notice that the credit
token is lost or stolen,  or is for any other  reason liable to misuse.
Mr Y denies  any involvement with the credit card application or usage of the card.  He says
he didnt make or give consent  to someone  else to use the card. In fact, he says he was
completely unaware  of its existence until he received a statement for one of the cards taken
with another bank within the same banking  group  and he called to report the alleged fraud.
This is when, he was surprised to learn a further two successful credit  card applications (one
of which  was Lloyds) had also been  made  in his name. Mr Y says he asked for a block  to be
placed on the card, which the bank  failed to do. He says this highlights  further  negligence on
the banks part as it allowed further  unauthorised transactions to take place.
Lloyds disagrees,  it believes Mr Y was aware the card had not been blocked. It contends as
its more likely than not that the card was taken  with Mr Ys knowledge and the transactions
consented to and made either by Mr Y or someone he had given permission to, it does  not
agree a refund should be applied to the account as suggested by the investigator.
Unfortunately, Lloyds hasnt been  able to provide any call recordings of conversations
related to the reporting of the alleged fraud that Mr Y held with it, or with any of the other
banks within  the banking group. In the absence of this it is difficult to know  exactly what was
said. However, I have had sight of the system  notes  which capture a summary of the
telephone conversations.  Having reviewed these, its not clear whether  Mr Y did, as our
investigator has suggested, ask for the card to be blocked on 15 September  2018, when he
first made contact. Nonetheless from what has been  documented in the notes,  I am satisfied
in a conversation  that took place  on 17 September 2018, between  the bank  and Mr Y he was
made aware  of the Lloyds application, and he did inform  the bank this was fraudulent.  So
with the relevant regulation in mind Im satisfied  it can be said, Lloyds were put on notice the
card was liable  to misuse.  So it follows that it cant hold Mr Y liable for any transactions
made after that point.
Ref: DRN85851594And since there were  no transactions made  between the 15 and 17 September  2018,  I dont
consider it necessary that I need to make a finding  in relation to whether or not Mr Y did in
fact inform Lloyds  on the 15 September 2018.
So, Ill now turn to whether or not I think the credit card application and transactions before
17 September 2018 were made  with Mr Ys knowledge and consent, and whether I think
Lloyds conclusion that they were  was reasonable. If Im satisfied, on balance, that its more
likely that Mr Y had knowledge  of the card and either carried  out the transactions  himself or
consented to someone  else having possession of the card,  then I couldnt fairly  ask Lloyds to
refund him for the transactions  made  before 17 September 2018.
So, to help me decide what happened, Ive thought  about what both Mr Y and Lloyds have
said. Like the investigator, Ive also considered evidence provided by Mr Y, Lloyds  and the
other banks  within  the same banking group with whom the other two cards  were taken. Ive
also considered  evidence provided to us by Mr Ys bank,  H.
Having carefully weighed everything  up, for the following reasons, I have currently  concluded
that its most  likely Mr Y received the credit card and someone who had possession of his
card with his consent carried out the transactions;
-It is not disputed  that the genuine  card and PIN was used to authenticate  the 
transactions  so I dont need  to comment on this further.
-The online card application  used Mr Ys genuine details  other than email address 
and mobile phone number. I realise  that it could  be argued  that this is suspicious and 
supports the notion that Mr Y has been  the victim of impersonation fraud. But its also 
not uncommon for a person to have multiple  email accounts and access  to another 
mobile phone nor does  this prove  that Mr Y didnt have knowledge of the 
applications. Whilst this alone  is not sufficient to hold Mr Y liable, the other  
circumstances of this complaint taken as a whole make  this a relevant consideration. 
-I can see all three  applications flagged on the banks system for a review, prompting
enhanced security checks to be completed before approval  which  included  
verifying the application data with a reliable source,  asking the account holder for
specific information which likely would only be known to them  and obtaining passport
and driving licence details  all of which happened. Mr Y has explained  due to the
nature of his job, images of his identification  are stored on his mobile phone, as he is
from time to time required to send these through different  forms of communications
including SMS, Whatsapp and email  he believes this make  him vulnerable to fraud.
Whilst I understand the point Mr Y is trying  to make, I dont  believe  that is what  has
happened here. Looking at the amount of detail provided, I think only Mr Y, or
someone close to him, wouldve had access  to and known this level of information. I
also note that Mr Ys genuine  email address had been provided  for one of the other
card applications.  And I think  if this were someone else,  using Mr Ys genuine email
address for one of the applications was a risky step for them  to take, as there  was
every opportunity of being caught. So overall, taking into account  the wider
circumstances I think its more likely Mr Y had knowledge of the application.
Ref: DRN85851595-This is further supported by the fact that Mr Ys correct address was used. Each 
application generated three separate items (welcome  pack,  card and PIN). So a total 
of nine individual pieces of post were sent to Mr Ys home address. Mr Y says he 
didnt receive any of these. He has made  several  suggestions to try and explain  what  
may have happened  to the post, such as, unknown third-party  interception, a postal 
service error, and whilst he was reluctant to say this, the possibility of it being taken 
by friends or family members. He has explained  his letter  box is secure, but I note he 
does live with several other family members who wouldve have access to his post. 
Mr Y says his job requires him to leave home early in the morning  (before the post 
arrives) and he returns late in the afternoon. His father collects all the post every 
morning and leaves  it in a pile, which he checks after he returns  home. Ive thought 
about everything Mr Y has said and thinking  about  whats most likely  to have 
happened to this post, I find it highly unlikely that an unknown  third party was able to 
identify and intercept  all nine pieces of post before they arrived  or that these were all
mistakenly sent to an incorrect address or lost by the postal  service.
-Ive also thought about whether a friend  or family  member  who had access  to Mr Ys 
home couldve intercepted the post, but I also dont think  this is what most  likely 
happened here. I say this because  Mr Y has spoken to his friends and family 
regarding this and they have told him that they were not involved; Mr Y himself has 
been reluctant  to accept a member of family  wouldve done this; and on balance 
whilst I think someone  couldve potentially identified envelopes containing  a card 
easily and intercepted these, I think its unlikely they wouldve been able to do so 
successfully for all nine pieces of post, especially given there was no specific  dates 
or times for when these  items  would arrive. So, my finding is that Mr Y most likely did 
receive the post and so was aware  of the Lloyds credit card account.
-This service has also been provided evidence to show that Mr Ys genuine mobile  
phone number was used to register one of the other cards which had been taken 
within the banking  group, for online banking services. An automated call was 
answered and a four-digit code input  and accepted. At the time of reporting the fraud 
Mr Y informed  the bank  there  were no issues with his mobile phone and he 
confirmed he always had his phone with him. However, Mr Y has since  told this 
service something different - that he did actually have issues with his mobile phone 
and others do have access to it. He denies  knowledge and any involvement in 
inputting a code.  The change in testimony  means I cant  rely on what Mr Y has said. I 
also cant see the benefit to an unknown fraudster of going to all the effort  of getting  
access to Mr Ys mobile phone to register for online banking, particularly since at the 
point at which the registration occurred  the credit card with the other bank had 
already been utilised  to its limit. So, since there is no evidence to support  an issue 
with Mr Ys phone,  Im persuaded by the technical evidence that his genuine phone  
was used to register  for online  banking, and I cant reasonably reach  a conclusion 
other than Mr Y had knowledge of the application.
Ref: DRN85851596-Mr Y says the banking  group has been irresponsible  in allowing someone to open 
three credit card accounts, in his name, over such a short period of time and has 
allowed them to transact on these accounts  building up a balance of over £40,000.  
He thinks it shouldve  identified this as suspicious and potentially  fraudulent.  It is my 
understanding applications  completed  online are automatically approved by the 
system with the credit limit decided, and customers can have more than one card 
with the same group, so this in itself isnt considered unusual. Having said that I can 
see blocks were applied  to all three applications and further  checks  were carried out 
before providing  the credit facilities. Im satisfied the person  spoken  to, to verify  the 
applications, knew a lot of personal  information about Mr Y and were in possession 
of both his genuine  driving licence and passport details. In those circumstances, 
there wasnt any reason for the bank to suspect that it was speaking to someone 
other than Mr Y. Having listened  to the calls, whilst Im persuaded it wasnt  Mr Y who 
the bank spoke to during the application  process, I think its fair to say this is not 
something it wouldve  reasonably known at the time. And it doesnt automatically 
follow that Mr Y had no knowledge  of the applications. This is because  the person  
may have been acting  with Mr Ys permission. And I think  this is what  likely  
happened here. Ive also seen evidence  that the bank  did stop transactions for 
security checks, however, each time the account holder was able to pass high level 
security in order to authorise them. So based on this I dont think  the banks 
presumption at the time that it was dealing  with Mr Y was an unreasonable one. Nor 
was its conclusion later upon  investigation that its unlikely someone without Mr Ys 
knowledge wouldve  been able to provide his identification and correctly answer and 
pass its security  checks, unreasonable.
-And finally, whilst I know these matters  have been settled separately, I think they are 
relevant to building a picture and need to be taken into consideration as part of the 
wider circumstances  of this complaint. Around  the same time the credit  card 
applications were  made, a loan was also applied for and drawn down in Mr Ys name 
 which  was paid into his genuine bank  account with H. Following the paying in of the 
loan, a number  of transactions were carried out using his debit card and PIN for the 
account with H. These disputed transactions were  largely ATM withdrawals and 
payments made to retailers  some distance  from Mr Ys home address. But these 
interestingly took place in the same vicinity as the transactions made on the credit 
cards taken  with Lloyds and the other  banks  within the same group. Suggesting this 
was also and most likely the same  person  or persons. So not only did the person 
who made the Lloyds  credit card application,  know detailed information  about Mr Y, 
his financial affairs, have access to all of Mr Ys post, identification documents, and 
his mobile phone,  they wouldve also been  able to get access  to his bank  card with H 
and its corresponding  PIN.
-Mr Y says the card for his account with H was kept at home in a drawer,  in his 
bedroom, he did not have his PIN written down  and had not shared it with anyone 
other than his wife, who used  the card infrequently  to withdraw  cash  for shopping. He 
didnt use the card regularly, which is the reason hed not noticed  it missing sooner. 
Mr Y has provided this service with statements which do collaborate  what  he has 
said about the general usage of this account, but hes not been able to convincingly 
explain how his PIN had been  compromised, and how someone other than him or his 
wife were able to obtain it. Nonetheless even if he could, I still think, on balance, all of 
the above things could not have happened  without Mr Ys knowledge or consent.
Ref: DRN85851597Overall, taking all the above  into account, I think that Mr Y probably knows  very much more
about the credit card application and the use of the card than he has told this service or
Lloyds. And on balance I think its most likely  that Mr Y was involved in the way in which
these transactions  came  about by enabling the account to be opened, and then giving the
card (with consent) to a third party. So under  the relevant regulation  this would make Mr Y
liable to any extent  for the loss to Lloyds  from use of the credit card by a person who had
acquired it with his consent - but for the reasons  Ive given above this only applies to
transactions made before 17 September 2018.
Mr Y has made several submissions listing reasons for why he thinks  Lloyds shouldve done
more and has failed  in its duty to protect him. However, as Ive concluded that I think its
more likely the transactions  were made  with Mr Ys knowledge and consent, I dont think I
need to make a finding in relation to this matter.  I say this because even if I were to say
Lloyds shouldve intervened (which to be clear is not what Im saying  shouldve  happened),
for the reasons above I dont think it would make a difference  to the outcome of this
complaint.
Mr Y has also made a slightly unusual argument - on one hand  he says he has not taken out
the credit  card but on another he wants me to consider a complaint about Lloyds lending  to
him irresponsibly. I think what  Mr Y intends  and would like, is to not be held liable for the
debt and for the full amount owed to be written  off. So I think  it would be helpful for me to
explain that even  if I were to conclude that Lloyds did unfairly provide Mr Y a credit card
(which to be clear I havent seen  any evidence of). When looking at putting things right,  we
generally consider  it fair that the borrower  (having  had benefit of the money)  pays  the
principal amount back. But to ensure they havent  lost out as a result of the banks actions,
we may ask a bank  to refund any interest, fees and charges that have been paid.
As Lloyds  havent  applied  any interest, charges or fees in relation to transactions made
before 17 September 2018  and the principal (debt) has been passed to recovery   which
also means no interest, charges or fees are being applied, I dont consider it necessary that I
need to make a finding here.
Ive taken on board what Mr Y has said, that he has never had to spend beyond  his means,
he is an honest man, worked hard all his life, is not responsible for these criminal activities,
has reported this to the police and has gone to great  lengths to prove his innocence.  He also
says he wouldnt have  gone to the trouble  of pursuing a complaint with our service or
appealing to an ombudsman if he genuinely  wasnt the victim of impersonation fraud.
Again, Ive thought about this, but looking at all the evidence and facts of this case, I find it
difficult to accept that all of the above things couldve happened without Mr Y being aware of
and/or involved  in what was going  on. Or that this application and the transactions  made
using the card were  carried out by a third party, unknown  to Mr Y as he has suggested. The
fact that a complaint has been  made and pursued, doesnt change my mind on this.
For the reasons  Ive outlined above Im persuaded, on balance,  its more likely than not that
Mr Y had knowledge of and consented  to the card application and transactions which
followed. But Im not satisfied  Lloyds is entitled  (with the relevant regulation in mind)  to hold
Mr Y liable for the full outstanding balance  only those transactions made  before
17 September 2018.
Ref: DRN85851598Lloyds accepted my findings and agreed  to refund the disputed transactions  made  after 
17 September 2018. Mr Y disagreed and maintained that he shouldnt  be held liable for any 
of the transactions as he neither received or used  the cards, nor did he give anyone 
permission to do so on his behalf.   
As both parties have  now responded to my provisional decision I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further comments  
Mr Y has shared in response to my provisional  decision to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, Ive not been  persuaded to alter my 
provisional findings.
Much of Mr Ys response to my provisional decision is a reiteration of arguments made in his 
previous submissions. Whilst I recognise  his strength of feeling and appreciate he considers  
these points to be valid, for reasons Ive already explained in my provisional findings I 
disagree that these  should entitle Mr Y to a refund of all the disputed transactions.  
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  on balance,  I still think  its more likely  
than not that Mr Y had knowledge of and consented to the card application and transactions  
which followed. But as Im satisfied on 17 September 2018 Lloyds were put on notice (by 
Mr Y) that the card was liable to misuse it is only entitled to hold Mr Y liable for transactions  
made before 17 September  2018. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, my final decision is to partially  uphold  Mr Ys complaint. 
I instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to deduct from the balance Mr Y owes, any transactions made 
after 17 September 2018  and associated interest, fees and charges.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2021.
Sonal Matharu 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8585159