K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with a change made  by Tesco Personal Finance  PLC to the terms and 
conditions of her credit  card account that led to her incurring charges. She is also unhappy 
with how this change  was communicated.
background
Mrs D has a Tesco credit  card. As well as standard purchases,  Mrs D uses her credit card to 
make repayments to another credit  card with a different provider.
In April 2018 Tesco made changes to its terms and conditions. One of these was around  the 
definition of what a cash transaction  was  which was updated to include some  new 
definitions including  repaying borrowing. Cash transactions on Mrs Ds credit  card incur a 
fee  a percentage of the value of the transaction itself. 
The changes to the terms and conditions came  into effect from 31 May 2018.
In June and July 2018 Mrs D used her Tesco credit card to make  three  repayments to her 
other credit card. As a result of the change to the account terms, these transactions  incurred 
fees totalling £226.84 as well as interest  totalling  £11.58.
Mrs D complained to Tesco about  the charges being  applied,  the change to the terms and 
that she wasnt notified in advance. Tesco said it had sent a notification  of the change to the 
terms in April 2018 along with Mrs Ds statements. It said it was entitled to make these 
changes under the terms of the account  and that the charges had been applied  correctly. So 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It did though agree to refund the interest of £11.58 
as a gesture of goodwill   which was done in October 2018. Unhappy  with Tescos response 
Mrs D asked our service  to look into her complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She found that Tesco  had sent 
notification of the change to the terms in advance and that the charges had been applied  
correctly. Mrs D disagreed. She said that the change wasnt drawn prominently enough to 
her attention  particularly  as she had opted  for paperless correspondence. She also felt that 
the term itself wasnt clear enough  that payments to credit cards  would  be considered cash 
transactions.
As Mrs D didnt  agree with our adjudicators findings  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ds agreement with Tesco  allow it to make changes  to 
those terms, including  to the charges, fees and interest it applied. So I think  Tesco was 
entitled to change the definition of cash transactions, in the way that it has.
Ref: DRN82648962Mrs D has said that the information  about  what would be affected by the change to the 
definition of cash transaction  shouldve been  clearer  as it didnt specifically  say that credit 
card repayments would be caught.  Ive looked at the information that was provided.  I can 
see it says Cash transactions arerepaying  borrowing (e.g. loans and mortgages)  While 
credit cards couldve  been included as one of the examples given, I still think  the information 
was clear that repayments  to borrowing would be considered cash transactions,  and incur a 
fee. And I also think its reasonable that a credit card would be considered  borrowing so 
repayments to other credit  cards would represent repaying borrowing. And because  of this, I 
also think the charges  applied  to Mrs Ds account  have been  applied correctly.
The terms of Mrs Ds agreement say that Tesco will give reasonable notice in writing  of 
changes, and for changes not relating to interest or charges a minimum of 30 days advance 
notices of any changes. Tesco has shown that it provided notice of the change  when it sent 
Mrs D a notification around  9 April 2018  that her statement for that month was available to 
view online. The change to the terms didnt take effect until 31 May 2018, more  than 30 days 
later. So I think Tesco  has done what it was required to and provided reasonable notice of 
the change to the terms.
Finally in relation  to how it notified Mrs D of the change, Mrs Ds account is paperless so 
statements are not sent to her in the post.  The terms of her agreement say that if the 
account is paperless, Tesco can also send notifications of changes to the account terms by 
email. And as Ive mentioned Tesco has shown that it did so here. It has provided a template 
copy of the email that it says it wouldve sent to Mrs D when her April 2018 statement  was 
ready to view. This included a section about  there  having been important changes to the 
credit agreement, including a summary of those  changes. And it contained  a link to the 
document explaining  those changes in full. Mrs D has acknowledged  that she did receive  
this email.
Tesco has also said that customers  that had made transactions before the terms were 
changed, that would be affected by the change, were identified  and information about the 
change in terms sent to them by post.  And it has sent a template copy of what was sent to 
those customers. Tesco  has said that Mrs D was identified as an affected customer as part 
of this exercise and that it wrote to her in addition to the email notification. And it has shown 
that it holds the correct  address for her.
And it has shown us a copy  of Mrs Ds account  statement for April 2018  which  was 
available to her to view online. This has a heading on the front page titled notice of variation  
and asks the account holder to read the enclosed information about changes to the terms 
and conditions that were to take effect from 31 May 2018. 
Mrs D has said she didnt receive a letter from Tesco about  this change. And as she gets 
online statements, information  about  the change was not enclosed with the statements  it 
needed to be accessed separately. She also says that as her account  is paperless she often 
doesnt wait for the email informing her that her account statement  is ready before logging  
into her online banking  to manage her account.  She receives a lot of emails from Tesco, 
about a number of topics and wouldve expected the email about these changes  to make the 
content more  obvious.  And lastly she doesnt  think  the mention of the change  on the 
statement was sufficiently  prominent.
I can see that Mrs D feels  quite  strongly  about  this. But taking everything into account,  I dont 
think it would  be fair to say that Tesco hasnt done  enough to notify her of the change to her 
terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN82648963On balance I think its likely Tesco did send a correctly addressed notification by post.  I 
acknowledge though this might not have been received for reasons  outside of Tescos 
control. But even  if it hadnt  done  this, I think the other notifications it send were  reasonable. 
The example  of the email that Ive seen includes a clear heading that important changes  had 
been made to the terms of her agreement.  And while I know  Mrs D doesnt agree, I think  the 
information on the statement about this was also clear as it was contained prominently on 
the first page of her statement, with a heading in bold. I acknowledge what  she has said 
about this not being  enclosed as she received her statement  online.  But a link was available 
within the email that was sent to her. And I think this, and the heading  in the statement, gave 
her enough  information to be able to review the details of the change to the terms.
I appreciate what Mrs D has said about how she manages her account online and that she 
doesnt always wait for the emails from Tesco about account statements   which  she is 
entitled to do. But I dont  think  that means  that Tesco has made  a mistake in including the 
notification within the email about  monthly account statements or that it needed to do 
something differently  in terms  of how the email  was headed.
So while I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs D, I dont think I can say 
that Tesco has acted  unfairly or made  an error here. I think it was entitled to make the 
change it did to the terms of her account. I think this was communicated  to her sufficiently 
clearly. And I think the charges applied following this change  have  been  added correctly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8264896