K820x#14complaint
Miss D says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card whilst 
shopping in a well-known retail store in 1996. 
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken  out in the store and added after Miss D signed an application form, most 
probably at the counter. Miss D says she doesnt  remember agreeing  to the PPI or it being 
discussed. She says she wasnt  even aware she had the PPI.
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Miss D disagreed  and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Id like to say that I certainly  dont doubt that Miss Ds recollections  of being mis-sold the PPI 
are honest  and genuine. However, this was all 23 years ago and I was sent a copy of the 
application form Miss D used to get her card. There was a section on the form about PPI and 
Miss D ticked  a box at that point  asking for the PPI. She also signed her name further down 
to accept the credit terms.
There was an option for Miss D to leave this part of the form blank but because she 
specifically asked for it, I think this shows she had a choice.   
I also see that Miss D did eventually get charged  quite a few times, over several  months, for 
PPI. I think  her monthly statements would have  shown  these up and if she hadnt  wanted the 
cover, I think she would have been  prompted to ask about the costs.
So Im afraid  I think these things, taken  together, make me think its more likely Miss D 
agreed to add the PPI policy to her store card, back in 1996 and she kept it on the card for a 
while after that.
My experience is that FICL provided  a non-advised  sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear  information for Miss D to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. More clarity  and information  could  certainly have been provided on the form but there 
were still certain explanations provided  directly next to where she made her choice. FICL 
also says there would have also been some terms and conditions  attached  to the application  
leaflet if Miss D had wanted to read these. I accept  she probably didnt feel able to do this at 
the time or doesnt remember now.
Ref: DRN85011282Miss D was eligible  for the cover and not caught  by any of the major  exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the 
benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most credit  cards.  For example, if shed 
become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding 
store card balance each  month until she returned to work or until all the balance  was 
returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been  in addition to any other means Miss D had in 
place at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that could have been of use in her situation. 
For me to uphold Miss Ds complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt 
given an option  or couldnt see she had PPI. The evidence points the other way. So I cant 
safely say this policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint and I dont require 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8501128