K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains LAMP Insurance Company Limited  misled him when he tried to reinstate his 
home insurance policy.
background
Mr H took out a home insurance policy with LAMP in February 2018. In April 2018, he 
noticed a leak on the ceiling. He attempted to register a claim on the policy  and discovered it 
was cancelled due to unpaid premiums. 
Mr H tried to reinstate his policy,  but LAMP didnt agree to this, and therefore didnt accept 
the claim.  It said Mr H had cancelled the direct debit so it cancelled the policy  back  to the 
last successful payment  in March 2018.  This meant there was no cover in place  at the time 
the damage happened.
Mr H complained to our service. Our investigator  reviewed  everything and didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said LAMP had made  reasonable attempts to collect the premiums due, and 
cancelled the policy in line with the terms and conditions. She was satisfied LAMP 
communicated its decision to Mr H and acted  correctly,  so she didnt think it needed to do 
anything further.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed  
to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why.
LAMP says it cancelled  Mr Hs policy back to the point of the last successful payment in 
March 2018, so this means there  was no cover in place at the time the leak occurred. 
Ive checked the terms of business for Mr Hs policy concerning cancellations. 
The terms state, If the first payment is successful but any subsequent payment fails 
Orchard (the lender) will make a second  attempt about 10 days laterIf that payment fails 
Orchard will advise  us to cancel your policy which we will advise you of by email and then no 
cover will be in force. 
Ive also seen the credit agreement  Mr H signed which states  failure to pay any instalment, 
according with the schedule  provided, may lead to the cancellation of your Insurance  Policy. 
Mr H says hes not sure why the direct debit was cancelled. He says the first he was aware 
of this was when he tried to register the claim in April 2018. But, Ive seen a copy of an email 
LAMP sent to Mr H  which  was sent to the email  address he registered  with them. It said 
the third party  lender  (Orchard) had let them know the direct debit for paying the insurance 
premiums had been cancelled. And it explained  the risks of him not being  covered, saying  
the issue needed to be rectified  in the next five days for the cover  to remain in place. 
Ref: DRN84666722So based  on the evidence I think Mr H was told about the problems with collecting the 
premium, and given  a reasonable chance  to rectify  this. Because  the payment wasnt 
received after this reminder  LAMP  cancelled  the policy in line with its terms, and I think  this 
was fair as LAMP gave Mr H enough notice  about its intention to do this. 
Mr H feels the leak went on for some time  a plumber suggested it mightve  been leaking  
for between  7-10 days before it was noticed.  But this still wouldnt be enough to fall under  
the dates the policy  covered. LAMP has said it wont reinstate Mr Hs policy  as he requested. 
And as I think its cancelled the policy  fairly  Im not going to tell it to do this either.
Mr H says he felt misled  by the wording  on LAMPs website to reinstate his policy.  He says 
he thought it would mean his old policy was reinstated, as opposed to a new 12-month  policy  
being set up. I appreciate Mr H feels strongly about this point, but having reviewing 
everything, I dont think LAMP has done anything wrong here. I can see theres a button 
clearly labelled  reinstate  policy on the screenshot provided, and while I agree this couldve 
been clearer as to what it involved,  I dont  think this makes a difference  to Mr Hs complaint. 
The policy was already cancelled, there was no cover in place at the time the damage 
happened, and LAMP was under no obligation  to reinstate the policy  if it didnt want  to.
So whilst I appreciate  this will be a disappointment  to Mr H, I dont think  LAMP  did anything 
wrong and Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8466672