K822xcomplaint
Miss G is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) reported an incorrect link 
on her credit  file. It is still being reported despite  the banks reassurances. 
background 
Miss G said NatWest incorrectly linked a defaulted  account belonging  to someone else on 
her credit file. After a number of years back and forth with NatWest she thought  the matter 
had been resolved. But when she applied for a new credit card with another provider it was 
declined because of her credit rating. Shes  concerned NatWest hasnt corrected its previous 
mistake. So she wants  the bank to take ownership of the problem and sort things out.
NatWest apologised  for the upset caused  to Miss G. But it said it didnt  think  it was now 
causing the problem. Itd told the credit agencies about the mistake. Two of the agencies  
had confirmed all links to the address  and alias of the other  person  had been  removed. But 
the third agency  said other lenders had noticed NatWests link and created their own. So 
NatWest wasnt responsible for the reoccurring problem. And it couldnt do anything about it.
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with NatWests response. So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked at Miss Gs credit record  and he could see she 
was still being  incorrectly associated with the defaulted account  at a different  address.
Our investigator wasnt convinced that other  organisations were now creating the link. So he 
looked at the matter  again. Despite NatWests efforts to disassociate  Miss G from the other 
party he didnt think it had properly separated the details. So he felt NatWest should  provide 
evidence Miss G was no longer being  connected to the other party. And it should  pay an 
additional £250 compensation for the ongoing trouble and upset. 
NatWest accepted it was responsible for a new link between  the addresses  after it updated 
its records in December  2018. So it agreed to award a further £250 compensation. But 
Miss G was unhappy with the outcome. She had been refused two mortgages  because of 
the error  and had struggled to obtain  other  finance.  The banks error was having a massive  
impact on her personal and financial life. So Miss G has asked  for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This must have been immensely frustrating and upsetting  for Miss G. Someone  with a 
similar name and date of birth was linked  to her credit file. And the mistake has been 
affecting Miss G since 2015. 
The initial mistake was NatWests. And it has apologised and offered Miss G substantial 
compensation for the trouble and upset  she has suffered. But the problem has reoccurred 
and Miss G is still being affected by the error. 
NatWest has attempted to severe  the link with the credit reference agencies (CRAs) on a 
number of occasions. And it seems the CRAs do amend Miss Gs data. But the link comes  
back again after a period  of time.  NatWest  didnt think it was responsible for the latest link. 
Ref: DRN86597042But I can see our investigator has carried out a thorough review with NatWest and the CRAs 
to try and find out why the link keeps returning  to Miss Gs credit file.
One of the CRAs has confirmed it couldnt  see any links to the other person. The second  
CRA found an address link was still visible. And this had now been deleted.  The third CRA  
said a third party seemed  to be responsible  for the link re-appearing. But it thought NatWest 
had contributed towards the problem again in December 2018.
NatWest said it wasnt  able to remove the remaining link as the third party  was responsible 
for the data. But the bank suggested  Miss G contact all three  credit  agencies to complete a 
notice of disassociation. That would stop the two persons  being  linked incorrectly. 
I do appreciate how much  trouble and upset has been caused to Miss G by NatWests  
mistakes. And I understand her frustration at the length of time it has taken to resolve. But 
its not our role to punish banks for their errors. Our role is to put Miss G back in the position 
shed have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.  And to make  awards  to compensate  her 
for any financial loss and upset and inconvenience.
Its clear the three years she has spent trying to clear her credit  file has had a massive 
impact on Miss Gs personal and financial circumstances. I can see Miss G has already 
received substantial compensation from NatWest for the initial  mistake  and the time it has 
taken to correct the error. And thats only right. Through no fault of her own Miss Gs 
financial affairs have been badly  affected.
But the problem  has re-occurred. So Ive considered whether further compensation is 
required for the mistake  which caused the link to reappear. Miss G says the mistake on her 
credit file has affected her ability to apply for a mortgage. She lost her credit card account.  
And shes concerned  the other  person  might  have had access to her personal information 
whenever the accounts have been  incorrectly linked. 
I do feel that NatWest has tried to put things right. And there are limits to what  the bank can 
now do to try and resolve matters. NatWest has recommended Miss G contact the CRAs 
herself to fully dissociate herself from the other  person. Unfortunately  this isnt something I 
can ask the bank to do on her behalf.  But I do agree its an important step in her severing  
any links to the other party. And I recommend  Miss G applies for the notice  of disassociation. 
I can see it has taken a lot of investigation  to get to the bottom of what  needs doing  to finally  
correct Miss Gs credit file. And NatWest has accepted it caused a further  problem in 
December 2018.  So its offered Miss G an additional £250 compensation on top of the 
money already  awarded to her. But I dont think the amount suggested  is quite enough to 
reflect the effort, inconvenience and time involved.  Taking everything into account I think 
NatWest should  increase  its offer to £350 compensation and the bank has accepted this 
amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Miss G an additional 
£350 compensation as it has agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Ref: DRN86597043Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8659704