K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about three instalment loans that he took out with Novaloans  Limited,
trading as Cash4UNow, (NL), which he said were unaffordable.
background
Mr G was given three  instalment loans by NL between April and November 2017. A 
summary of the loans  taken out by Mr G is shown  below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Monthly instalment  
amounts 
1. 13/4/17 23/5/17 £500 6 instalments of 
£140.15
2. 7/6/17 27/7/17 £300 5 instalments of 
£102.44
3. 1/11/17 Unpaid £800 6 instalments of 
£246.16
NL said that it had carried out a credit check before each loan and asked Mr G for details of 
his income and expenditure. It said there was no evidence of over commitment on credit or 
financial difficulties shown  in its credit checks.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt think NL was wrong to lend the loans to Mr G.
Mr G disagreed and responded to say that NL hadnt validated  his circumstances accurately 
enough to determine if he could afford the loans. When hed taken  out Loan 3, hed already 
borrowed around £12,000 from other short  term lenders  in the previous  year and all his 
salary was used to make the loan repayments.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to NL on 22 July 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Id noted that when  NL lent to Mr G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending.
NL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this
meant that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could repay
the loans in a sustainable manner. Those  checks could take into account  a number of
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Gs
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I
thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that NL should fairly and reasonably have  done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. I said that these factors  
included:
Ref: DRN87591542-the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
       any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
       meet a higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
-the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
       during which a customer  had been given  loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated
       refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
       unsustainable).
I noted that there might even come  a point where the lending history  and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important to say that NL was required to establish whether  Mr G could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
I said that the loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  I said this was because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defined  sustainable  
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Gs complaint.
Id noted that NL had made  a number of checks before it lent to Mr G. It asked him for details 
of his income and expenditure.  Mr Gs declared income was £2,761 and hed said that his 
expenditure was £2,200, £1,545 and £1,895 for Loans 1 to 3 respectively. NL had also 
checked Mr Gs employment and housing status. From the information NL gathered, 
Mr G was employed and paid rent.
NL had also checked Mr Gs credit file before agreeing to the loans. NL had provided  Mr G 
with a summary of its credit checks in its final response letter. NL had also provided us with 
the results of its credit checks. As these were difficult  to understand, the adjudicator had 
asked NL for more  information about  these  but NL didnt provide this as it was too complex. 
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £500 repayable by six monthly repayments of £140.15. Mr G told NL that his
monthly income was £2,761 and his regular expenditure  was £2,200 including short term
credit repayments of £51. So he had a disposable income of £561.
NL had summarised its credit checks on its final response letter. It said that Mr G had 
26 active accounts with an active account balance of £23,252,  although £13,699 of this was 
on one loan. Nineteen  accounts had been opened in the previous six months, although NL 
said that these  wouldnt necessarily be short term loans. The checks  also showed that Mr G 
had taken out four short term loans in the last three months and the total value of short term 
loan accounts  was £675. NL had also said that it saw no evidence of overcommitted  credit or 
Ref: DRN87591543financial difficulties from its credit check. But I thought that NL might  have  been  concerned  
about the number of active accounts held by Mr G. I thought  it might  also have been 
concerned that the total value of short term loan accounts was £675 which was more  than 
Mr Gs disposable income.
I could see on the credit check NL had provided to us that there were numerous  entries  
relating to payday loans but as Id said above NL wouldnt agree to explain these to our 
adjudicator in view of their complexity.
On balance, I thought it might have been proportionate at this time for NL to have gathered
some further  information from Mr G about his other  short term lending. Had it done so, its
likely that NL wouldve  learnt that Mr G had around  11 outstanding other short  term loans
with monthly repayments of over £1,200 due at the same time as the repayments  on Loan 1.
I could see these on Mr Gs own credit report  and his bank statements. I thought that the 
number and amount  of Mr Gs outstanding short term loans  showed  that NLs loan wasnt 
likely to be sustainable. So I thought NL ought  to have realised it was unlikely Mr G wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay Loan 1. And it was wrong for NL to give Loan  1 to Mr G.
Loan 2
Mr G repaid Loan 1 early,  but took out Loan 2 around two weeks after repaying
Loan 1. The loan amount  had decreased to £300  and was repayable  by five monthly
instalments of £102.44. Mr G again declared  his income to be £2,761, but his expenditure
had fallen substantially  to £1,545.
NL had carried out a credit  check before  the loan, although its summary of its results in its 
final response letter appeared  identical to that for Loan 1. So for the same reasons as for 
Loan 1, on balance, I thought it might have been  proportionate at that time for NL to have 
gathered some further information from Mr G about his other short  term lending.  Had it done  
so, I said it was likely that NL wouldve learnt  that Mr G had one outstanding  short  term loan 
with monthly repayments of around £46. So, I didnt  think  NL had done anything  wrong  in 
giving Loan 2 to Mr G.
Loan 3
Mr G had repaid Loan 2 early, and took out Loan 3 around three  months after repaying 
Loan 2. The loan amount  had increased  to £800 and was repayable by six monthly 
instalments of £246.16. Mr G had again declared his income  to be £2,761, but his 
expenditure had increased to £1,895.
NLs summary  of its credit check showed that Mr G had 18 active accounts with an 
increased active account balance of £24,934.  Seven accounts had been opened in the 
previous six months,  although NL had said that these wouldnt necessarily be short term 
loans. The check had also showed  that Mr G had taken out three short term loans in the 
previous month although NL had said that this was acceptable under its criteria. NL didnt 
provide the total value of those loans. But I thought that NL might have been concerned 
about the number of short term loans  opened  in the previous month.
I could see again  on the credit  checks  NL had provided to us that there  were  numerous 
entries relating  to payday loans but as Id said above, NL wouldnt agree to explain these to 
our adjudicator in view of their complexity.
Ref: DRN87591544I thought it might have  been proportionate at this time for NL to have gathered some further
information from Mr G about his other short  term lending. Had it done so, I said it was likely 
that NL wouldve learnt  that Mr G had around  four outstanding other short  term loans with 
monthly repayments of around £700 due at the same time as the repayments  on Loan 3. I 
could see these on Mr Gs own credit report and on his bank  statements. I thought that the 
number and amount  of Mr Gs outstanding short term loans  showed  that NLs loan wasnt 
likely to be sustainable. So I thought NL ought  to have realised it was likely that Mr G was 
having problems  managing his money and it was unlikely Mr G wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay  Loan  3. So I thought NL was wrong to give Loan  3 to Mr G.
So I said that I intended to uphold this complaint  in part and that NL should put things right.  I 
noted that there was a balance outstanding on Loan 3 and that NL had suggested that
Mr G contact it about a repayment  plan. I reminded  NL of its responsibility to treat Mr G
in a positive and sympathetic manner about the amounts he should repay.
Subject to any further representations by Mr G or NL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  NL to
-refund  all interest and charges Mr G had paid on Loan 1 and pay interest of 8% simple  a
       year on such refunded interest and charges  from the date they were paid to the date
       of settlement*;
-with regard to Loan 3, refund all the interest and charges that Mr G had paid on
       Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment
       to the date of settlement;
-write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 3;
-apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and
       pay any balance to Mr G; and
 -     remove any adverse entries about Loans  1 and 3 from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NL to take off tax from this interest. NL must  give Mr G a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If NL intends  to apply the
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Both Mr G and NL responded to my provisional decision to say that they accepted my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Mr G and NL have accepted my provisional decision and given  me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require NL to pay Mr G 
some compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN87591545my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Novaloans Limited,  trading  as Cash4UNow, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr G had paid on Loan 1 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 3, refund all the interest  and charges that Mr G has paid on
            Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment
            to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 and
            pay any balance  to Mr G; and
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  1 and 3 from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NL to take off tax from this interest. NL must  give Mr G a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If NL intends  to apply the
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  29 September 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8759154