K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of his 
motorbike insurance  policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes their agents.
background
Mr A took out insurance for his motorbike with Markerstudy in September  2017. Markerstudy 
said one of the conditions was that the motorbike  had to be kept in a locked garage at all 
times it was within 500 metres of Mr As home.
Early in the morning on 22 October 2017,  the motorbike was parked outside  Mr As home  
address on the street  when  it was stolen. Mr A claimed on his policy. After investigating 
Markerstudy didnt pay his claim and they voided  the policy, which  means they ended it as though 
it never came into effect. They said Mr A was responsible for careless misrepresentation, 
because when taking  out the policy although he told them he would keep the motorbike  in a 
locked garage,  he didnt  actually have access to a garage so he couldnt keep it there.
Mr A didnt agree with the decision so he complained.  But Markerstudy didnt change their 
decision. Mr A didn't  think that was fair so he brought  his complaint to us. Two of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. They  felt that Markerstudys decision was reasonable. 
As Mr A didnt agree  with our adjudicators,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr A has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Markerstudy  have dealt with Mr A in a fair and reasonable way.
Markerstudy have said that what Mr A did amounted  to, what  is known in the insurance 
industry, a careless  misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers  
may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may avoid the policy  and refuse all claims if 
they wouldnt have  provided cover  had the correct  information  been  given by the policyholder  
when applying for the policy. Where  that happens  the insurer  must return the premium.  In 
Mr As case, Markerstudy have shown me information that confirms  they wouldnt have 
insured Mr A had they known his motorbike  wouldnt be kept in a locked garage.
Ref: DRN86951392To decide if it was fair for Markerstudy to say that Mr A had made a misrepresentation, I 
have to consider  if Markerstudy asked Mr A a clear question; what  Mr As answer was; and 
whether the answer was incorrect. The issue in this complaint is about  where  Mr A kept his 
motorbike. The policy was taken  out over the phone. The call was in two parts and was 
recorded. Markerstudy have provided us with the recording  of the second part of the call, but 
they havent been able to provide the first part as I understand it couldnt be located. But 
Markerstudy have provided us with a transcript of the call. According to the transcript, the 
relevant part of the discussion was as follows:
Markerstudy: and where do you keep it when  not using it?
Mr A: in the garage
Markerstudy: Yep and Ive got that saved as a concrete garage at the home address 
locked at all times is that right?
Mr A: Correct
Ive listened to the second part of the call and the call handler said:  
you have agreed youll keep your vehicle in your private locked  garage  or building  at 
your home or deferred garaging address to which only you or anyone  with your 
permission have access. Theft or attempted  theft of the vehicle  happens at anytime  
and within  a 500 metre radius of your home and/or deferred garaging address when 
the vehicle is not locked  in this garage or building we will not pay the claim
Markerstudy then sent or made available through their portal various documents to Mr A. 
Those documents included the policy schedule,  certificate, the Key Facts and the Statement 
of Insurance.  During the call Mr A had specifically asked about having access  to the portal 
where all his documents would be stored.
The Key Facts document said the following:
If you have  declared your motorcycle as garaged, you must keep it in your private  
locked garage  or building,  to which only you and anyone with your permission have  
access.
For a structure to qualify  as a garage it must  be a private lockable building or shed,  
to which  only you and anyone with your permission have access.
The policy schedule had the following endorsement:
E434 EXCLUDING THEFT WHEN NOT  IN PRIVATE GARAGE  AT HOME OR 
DECLARED GARAGING ADDRESS - You have agreed that you will keep your 
vehicle in your private locked garage  or building, at your home  and/or  declared 
garaging address, to which only you and anyone with your permission have  access. 
If a theft or attempted theft of your vehicle happens at any time and within  a 500 
metre radius of your home and/or declared garaging address when the vehicle is not 
locked in this garage  or building we will not pay the claim. 
Mr As position, as I understand it, is as follows:  (1) without the recording of the first part of 
the call, a conclusion that Markerstudy asked  him a clear question  couldnt be reached;  and 
(2) He did in fact keep his motorbike in a locked garage. So he said there is no qualifying 
misrepresentation therefore Markerstudys voidance of the policy was unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN86951393Mr A said that the garage where  he kept his motorbike was underground and secure. It was 
under the building, which appears to be a block  of ground floor houses and flats above.
Mr A accepts that the garage was used by other occupants in the adjoining properties  and I 
understand there are allocated parking spots for individual occupants.  I have seen two 
photographs provided by Mr A. The entrance  to the underground car park has a large  steel  
door that covers the whole of the entrance and access is gained  by a security  device like a 
key fob or card. Mr A said although others also used the car park, it still fell into the 
dictionary definition of private as it was for the exclusive use of only a group of people, 
namely the occupants of the building. 
Mr A said that when taking out the policy he told Markerstudy that while he didnt have an 
official parking spot in the garage, he was able to leave his motorbike inside the garage in an 
unused corner until he got a designated spot. He said that as a result  of his discussion with 
Markerstudy, they concluded the bike was stored  in a private, secured, enclosed garage.  
Im therefore  satisfied from the transcript of the first part of the call; the second part of the 
call; and from what Mr A has said, that he was asked where he kept his motorbike. And Im 
satisfied from the evidence that Mr As answer  was that he kept it in a locked garage.  I have 
to now consider whether or not Mr As answer  was incorrect.
One the same day of the theft a message was posted on Facebook saying My bike stolen in 
London last night keep a look out any info appreciated  Reg  It also attached two photos  of 
Mr As bike.  The message was posted  from a Facebook account  that had two names,  
neither of them were  Mr As names. But the second  name was Mr As surname spelt 
backwards. Mr A has said that isnt his Facebook account as he doesnt have one. He also 
said he didnt post that message. But he did say he left the task to a friend and he posted 
up notices on various groups to garner as much  interest as possible. On 23 October  2017,  
Mr A forwarded a screenshot of that posting, together with others, to Markerstudy which  said 
The missing bike is posted on many groups, this is one of them, see screen shot attached.  I 
will send more
A few days  later the following message  was posted from the same Facebook account  as 
before on a group called The UK Motorcycle Theft Protest:
Good evening all, I need some advice please, my bike was stolen last Sunday. I left 
it outside the property to prep it for a ride at 6am, and it was stolen at 6.30am, I was 
between changing  insurers  at the time and I told them it would be kept in garage, 
unfortunately I didnt  get round to sort the garage with building manager due to work  
commitments at the other part of the country.  The insurance has a clause E434- 
EXLUDINGTHEFT WHEN NOT IN A PRIVATE GARAGE AT HOME OR DECLARED 
GARAGING ADDRESS.  I have started  the claim process and provided them crime  
ref number,  keys and service book and original invoice. I'm insured with [] and the 
broker is Markerstudy. The bike is worth  £21k and while all this, I have sent the 
original invoice or the agreed value. They have asked for garage  pics, I didn't keep it 
in the garage  due to circumstances above.  I assumed I was going to get it sorted  
before work change  and before the theft happened. Do I send the garage pics they 
wanted although I haven't had time sort it and get the permit and do I stand a chance 
with a pay-out  or have I lost my bike and also not get pay-out?
Mr A has accepted the message related to his situation, although he doesnt accept he 
posted it or that the account was his. He also said that the message has been  taken out of 
context by Markerstudy. Markerstudy  have interpreted the message as Mr A admitting that 
he didnt keep his motorbike in the garage as he hadnt been able to get permission to park 
Ref: DRN86951394there; and that when  taking out the policy he told Markerstudy his motorbike would be kept in 
the garage while at the time he hadnt  yet arranged that. I can understand why Markerstudy 
interpreted the message  in that way.
While Mr A distances himself from that Facebook  account, given the detailed and accurate 
information contained in the message  (even  the text written in capital letters  is identical to 
the wording used in the policy schedule, which is also in capitals letters) I dont think the 
friend he mentioned  would have been able to include those details without Mr As input. I 
cant say for certain who wrote the message but, like the earlier one, it was written in the first 
person: I need , my bike was stolen,  I told them Had it been  a friend writing the 
message I would have  expected words to the effect  of my friends  bike has been  stolen  and 
he said.  I also note that as far as Im aware, Mr A didnt offer the details of that friend to 
Markerstudy to verify his account. So on the balance of probabilities I think  it was written or 
dictated by Mr A.
Mr A accepted that he was first alerted by Markerstudy that there  was an issue with his claim on 
8 November 2017, he said I was not aware of any issues with this claim when sending  these  
emails until the 8th of November 2017. But given the Facebook message appealing for advice 
was only a few days after the motorbike was stolen on 22 October  2017,  Mr A was clearly 
concerned that his claim might not get paid, even before he was alerted by Markerstudy.  That 
message also shows  that Mr A was aware  the motorbike had to be kept in a garage. 
During the second call Mr A had with Markerstudy  when  taking  out the policy,  after the call 
handler told him he had to keep the motorbike  in a locked garage,  he asked for a new 
premium quote on the basis  of him keeping his motorbike  parked outside on the road. He 
was told by the call handler that he wouldnt be insured unless he kept the motorbike inside 
a garage. He then asked what would happen if it was stolen  while it was parked outside  his 
house to which the call handler  replied  saying the claim wouldnt be paid. The call handler 
then again clarified that the motorbike  would have to be inside the garage when within  500 
metres from his home address. Mr A in response then asked the following question:
out of interest, how would they check,  would they actually send someone down to 
look at the garage  and how it happened  and what happened and what  not?
In other  words, he was asking how Markerstudy  would investigate  in the event of his 
motorbike being  stolen while not in the garage. The call handler responded by saying she 
didnt really know as she didnt work in the claims department.  If Mr A had access to a 
locked garage  and he intended  to keep his motorbike parked inside it, I find his request for a 
quote to park the motorbike outside and his query  as to how the insurer  would investigate  a 
theft of the bike outside the garage  unusual, unless Mr A intended  to leave the bike outside 
his house.
I have seen correspondence Mr A provided showing his efforts  with the estate management 
in order to get a designated parking spot inside the underground garage.  I can see that his 
efforts to get a parking spot started  well before  he took out the policy with Markerstudy and 
continued well after the theft and the voidance. But those show  that at the time he took out 
his policy  in September 2017, he didnt yet have  a designated parking spot in the garage.  
And while he told Markerstudy he was keeping the motorbike in an unused corner  of the 
garage, I havent  seen any confirmation  from the estate management that he was allowed to 
do that. And had that been the case,  I dont  think the Facebook message would have said 
unfortunately I didnt  get round to sort the garage with building  manager and I didn't keep it 
in the garage if he was all along  parking  in the garage,  albeit in a corner.
Ref: DRN86951395So I think Mr As answer that he kept the motorbike  in a locked garage was incorrect, and 
that at the time he made that representation he knew it was incorrect. I therefore think  it was 
a qualifying misrepresentation, so Markerstudys decision to void the policy  and not pay the 
claim was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019. 
 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8695139