K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that Legal & General  Insurance Limited (L&G) wont  pay her pet insurance 
claim. My references to L&G include its agents.
Mrs N will note that my decision is about her as sole complainant, rather  than a joint 
complainant as referred to in our investigators correspondence. Mrs N is the sole 
policyholder and should be the sole complainant. The change hasnt affected the outcome of 
my decision.  Mrs N is represented by her daughter  in this complaint.
background
Mrs N adopted her dog from a local rescue centre  on 3 February  2017.  It arranged free pet 
insurance for a month with another insurer.
Mrs N took out a policy with L&G on 31 March 2017.  Unfortunately  two months  later her dog 
collapsed and that happened  several times. Tests  showed he had mitral valve  heart  disease.  
Mrs N claimed  for the treatment. Sadly  he had to be put to sleep in January  2018 and she 
also claimed for the associated costs including cremation.
L&G declined the claim. The policy didnt cover  pre-existing conditions,  which  the policy  
defined as any condition  diagnosed or undiagnosed showing signs, symptoms,  manifesting 
or existing  in any form before the start of the policy. The dogs vet notes showed  that when 
he was seen by a vet on 17 January 2017 a heart  murmur was detected  during an 
anaesthetic for dental procedures. L&G believed the heart murmur was the start of the mitral 
valve disease so symptoms were present before the start of the policy and the claim wasnt  
covered.
Mrs N complained to L&G. She said she didnt own the dog in January 2017  and the rescue 
centre didnt tell her the dog had any medical conditions. She asked how L&G had got the 
information from the vet who had seen  the dog before  she had him.
L&G had contacted the rescue centre and asked to see any vet notes for the dog. L&G told 
Mrs N that it understood  she wasnt aware her dog had a heart  murmur but a symptom  of the 
claim condition  was in his old vet records and it could apply the exclusion.
Mrs N complained to us. She sent a letter from the vet who saw the dog while  he was at the 
rescue centre. The vet said hed checked the dog as part of a health  check  to leave and the 
heart murmur wasnt present then.  He also said heart murmurs were  common  in older  dogs 
and not necessarily a symptom of mitral valve disease.
Our investigator thought L&G didnt have to pay the claim.
Mrs N disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision. She said our website said we would 
look at whether owners knew about  their pets medical condition or symptoms when looking 
at these types of complaints. She emphasised she had no knowledge  of her dogs heart 
murmur when she took out the policy and the vet didnt think there  was a link to the mitral 
valve disease.
Ref: DRN89851222my provisional findings
Mrs N complained to us a few days later than six months after L&Gs  final response letter to 
her. So she was outside the time limit in which to complain to us. However, before the 
complaint came to me L&G had accepted there were exceptional circumstances for the 
delay and it had agreed to us considering the complaint.
I explained why I was intending  to uphold this complaint. I said:
I need to decide whether L&G can fairly and reasonably decline the claim,  and I dont  think it 
can. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear it doesnt  cover pre-existing conditions as defined above.  That's usual in 
most pet insurance  policies which have the same or similar  definition.
However, I dont think its fair to decline a claim where a consumer genuinely didnt know 
there was something  wrong with their pet which was likely  to lead to some investigation or 
treatment.
Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs N knew her dog had a heart  murmur when she adopted 
him or when she took out the policy. The policy form the rescue centre completed for the 
free insurance asked  whether the dog had shown  any illness  and the rescue centre  had 
ticked the answer no. That supports  Mrs Ns evidence that she wasnt told about any 
problem. L&G has accepted in its final response  letter that Mrs N didnt know  about the heart 
murmur.
In the circumstances L&G cant fairly and reasonably decline the claim  on the basis  that the 
dog had a pre-existing  condition.
I note the evidence from the vet who saw Mrs Ns dog before she adopted him. But I dont  
need to consider whether  the heart murmur was a symptom of the mitral valve  disease. 
Even if it was, the important point is Mrs N didnt know  about the murmur when she took out 
the policy.
L&G needs  to pay Mrs Ns claim in line with the remaining  policy terms and limits and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  If Mrs N has already paid the vet then L&G must 
add interest as Ive detailed below.
Mrs N mentioned that she claimed for her dogs cremation costs.  Just so Mrs N is aware, 
I note the key facts/policy  summary says theres no cover for cremation costs if her dog was 
aged eight years or over when he died, and I understand he was.
responses to my provisional  decision
L&G accepted my provisional decision.  Mrs N didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89851223As L&G agreed and Mrs N didnt respond  to my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in provisional findings  I uphold  this complaint. 
L&G must pay Mrs Ns claim in line with the remaining policy  terms and limits and subject to 
any excess and co-payments. If Mrs N has already paid the vet it must  add interest as 
detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs Ns claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments.  If Mrs N has already 
paid the vet it must add interest at 8% a year simple from the date of payment  until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Legal  & General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs N a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8985122