K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier. In particular, Mr H says he was 
told that the solar  panel system  would  be self-funding, or generate a profit  for him, from day 
one. 
background
In or around June  2016, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system  (the system) to be installed at his home.  After  
being visited by a representative  of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and finance  it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook.  The system was subsequently 
installed.
In February 2017  Mr H made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook.  He said that 
P had made a number of representations  about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these  misrepresentations  that had induced him to enter into the contract with 
P. Mr H said the following misrepresentations had been made:
P had used speculative data to calculate the potential benefits and Mr H believes 
they have been  exaggerated
Mr H only agreed to take out the loan on the basis  that it would be commercially 
beneficial to him  in other words it would be self-funding and then generate  a profit
He wanted  to pay the loan off early but Shawbrook delayed providing  the settlement 
figure
P didnt  provide the information he needed  to register to receive  the Feed In Tariff 
(FIT) payments
Shawbrook said, in response to the complaint, that having reviewed the information  it held 
on file, as well as information provided  by P, that it didnt agree  the system had been  
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other  reasons for the claim to be upheld. In 
summary, it said:
P confirmed that it had supplied the documents (to Mr H) that Mr H needed to 
register his system for FIT payments. P also called Mr H on the same day to confirm 
receipt of the documents and offer help with the application
Shawbrook provided the loan agreement, which is signed  by Mr H confirming that he 
read and agreed to the terms and conditions.  These included the right to withdraw  
from the contract
P provided a copy of the contract which was signed by Mr H to confirm that he had 
been provided with the information pertinent to the system and hed fully understood 
it 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr H referred his complaint  to this service and it was 
considered by one of our investigators. 
Having considered all the information  and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think  
that P had misrepresented  the system  to Mr H and found no reason to uphold  the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
Ref: DRN86217372He was told that the loan could be paid off in full in the first year
He told the sales  person  that the documentation seemed to indicate  that the panels 
would only be economical if there  was no interest on the loan. He said that Ps 
representative explained that he could  repay  the loan early to avoid interest
P told him that by the end of the year the average income would cover the cost of the 
loan 
Mr H would not have  purchased the panels if hed known hed have to wait 15 years 
to see the benefit
He proceeded  with the purchase  as he was led to believe that the system  would  
benefit him financially
As Mr H didnt  accept the investigators assessment his complaint has been passed to me 
for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr H paid for the system  with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against  P, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section  75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances  of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
Ref: DRN86217373(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related  agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and matters
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Mr H and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr Hs solar quote,  titled Your Personal Solar  Quotation. 
Ive considered these  in detail.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there
have been any untrue statements of fact, taking into account Mr Hs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
the FIT payments
Mr H has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity  payments. Ive considered the quote  that was 
provided by P and considered whether this supports  what  he says he was told - as I consider 
the quote was central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could  expect to receive  by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr H could expect to receive  a 
total income in year one of £125.64 from his FIT.
Ref: DRN86217374Page nine of the quote goes on to set out the electricity savings Mr H could expect from the 
system as well as any savings they would make from taking out any optional extras including 
a voltage optimiser.  The expected year one electricity saving is £168.09 and the combined 
income and savings in year one is shown as £434.61. This is shown in a table titled Putting 
it all together.
The following  page, page  10, has a section titled Repayments. This has three tables set
out over 60 months,  120 months and 180 months.  The table for 180 months is highlighted  in
orange as this is the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
sets out that there are 180 monthly  payments of £81.34 due and compares the overall
expected grand total from the system,  averaged over a monthly  basis,  versus the expected
loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare his FIT income  to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover  the 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I do appreciate what  Mr H says he was told verbally, his 
comments are not supported by the quote  he was given. Therefore, Im not persuaded that 
the evidence suggests that it is more likely that he was misled  - and he was told that the 
monthly loan repayments would  be covered by the benefits of the system from year one.
total cost of the system and expected benefits
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  as 
compared to the expected cost. My view is that this table is in an understandable format and 
sets out the overall benefit or cost as applicable.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr H was expected to have made a 
loss of £45.12 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £43.02 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until the 15th year that the expected benefits would exceed the monthly 
loan repayments,  and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have  been until around  year 18 that they 
would have sufficiently  recouped any previous annual losses and the system  would be 
paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it reasonably clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding  
from the start. I think  the quote  is clear  that there would be a negative difference  between 
the expected income and monthly  loan repayments for about 15 years.   
In addition to this, page six of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between  the
expected income  and loan repayments.
I accept that Mr H was told that hed receive  a year one benefit of £434.61  as this was the 
expected combined  income from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy  bills. 
Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr H 
Ref: DRN86217375was led to believe that hed receive  this sum in his hand. Im satisfied that the quote makes  
it clear that hed have  to make loan repayments  and overall there would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would pay for itself over an 18-year 
period. Page  12 of the quote has a table headed  Estimated performance  over 30 years:
This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits  that Mr H could expect  to receive would  have 
exceeded the total amount payable under  his loan agreement. This table also sets out the 
panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive therefore  gone  on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract  between  P and Mr H. The quote  sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 1,873.92 kWh a year and this in turn would generate  the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings  in his energy bills, that Mr H could expect to receive.
Mr H has provided FIT statements from May 2019  to December 2019. Between  these dates,  
the system generated a total of 1,336  kWh. 
I have calculated that the system generates, on average, about  2,100 kWh a year. This is 
higher than the estimated  generation provided in the quote, so Im satisfied  that the system 
is performing in line with, or in excess of, the quote. I appreciate  that Mr H says this is not 
based on energy  generation figures  for the full year. But I think  that the figures that have 
been provided illustrate satisfactorily that the system is generating the kWh that were set out 
to Mr H originally.  
So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr H to be close to recouping  any initial  losses  from the 
system and for it to have paid for itself by year 18. Mr H has said that this isnt the case  so 
Ive gone on to consider whether P have  overstated the potential income and savings he 
could expect to receive  by, for example, using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Mr H was personalised to his specific  circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate  the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy  generated by the system that Mr 
H would  use rather than buying it from his energy provider (therefore  leading  to savings on 
his energy bills) and the expected increase  in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI. The expected increase in utility  prices and RPI were based  on the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006  and 2015.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figures provided 
in the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements 
provided, that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures  provided in the 
quote.
Ref: DRN86217376The quote  sets out that Mr H was expected  to use, or self-consume, 75% of the kWh 
generated by the system  each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  saving of 
£168.09. This amount of saving would  increase  each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting  to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%.  
Shawbrook explained  that rather than picking  one standard self-consumption  rate, P used a 
bespoke calculation which is tailored for each customer. This calculation  is based on 
information provided to them by the consumer about  their electricity usage.  Ive looked at 
this method in detail  and Im satisfied that the assumptions used are fair and personalised to 
Mr Hs circumstances at the point of sale.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr H was expected to self-consume were  
both reasonable  assumptions for P to have  made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr H could expect to
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases  was
6.92%, and for RPI was 3.04%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy  prices  and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS  suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%.  Both of these  figures  are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view explain  why Mr H isnt receiving the financial returns  from the 
system that he may have expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2006 to 2015. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year
18. Although I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed  by the financial returns from the system, 
Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when he entered into 
the contract  for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
further considerations
Mr H has said that P didnt provide him with sufficient information for him to register his 
system to receive FIT payments.
Ref: DRN86217377Ive looked at the emails provided  by Mr H and I think these indicate that P provided the 
documentation that was required to obtain FIT payments and offered to help Mr H with his 
FIT application.  Mr H has confirmed that his FIT provider  back-dated his payment  so he has 
not been financially disadvantaged  by the delay.
Mr H thinks that Shawbrook  delayed  providing a loan settlement figure to him. I note that Mr 
H sent emails to Shawbrook from August 2016 which in hindsight  we know were  a request 
for a settlement  figure. But, until 2017,  I dont think it would have been clear to Shawbrook 
that this is what he was requesting. On 28 January 2017 Mr H clearly requested a settlement 
figure from Shawbrook. Shawbrook responded on 14 February  2017 and provided  a phone 
number for him to call to receive the required information. So, overall, I think  Shawbrook 
provided a figure when  it was made  clear  to it that this is what  Mr H required.  
summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, I dont 
believe that evidence  suggests that it is more likely that Mr H was misled  as he says or there 
were untrue statements of fact made  by P that induced  Mr H to enter  into the contract for the 
system. For the reasons set out in this decision I have found no other  reason to uphold this
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8621737