K822xcomplaint
P, a limited  company which Ill also call the company,  complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc 
(the bank) mis-sold it a fixed interest  rate commercial  loan.  
background
In 2003 P had taken out a variable rate loan from the bank for around £125k.
In 2006 P also took out the relevant fixed rate loan, borrowing around £650k over 20 years. 
The interest rate was fixed  at 6.145% for the full 20 years. The purpose  of the loan was to 
assist in the purchase of a headlease of commercial property. The rent the company was to 
receive from the undertenant was due to be reviewed after 13 years,  in 2019. 
The bank has been unable to locate the original loan agreement. But the bank says its a 
condition of its lending  that the companys  rental  income should amount  to at least 105% of 
its loan repayments.  
Via its representative, the company complained about the fixed  rate loan in November 2017. 
P said in particular that the bank hadnt  adequately  explained to the company before it 
entered into the loan how large the break  costs  might be if P wished or needed to repay the 
loan early. P said the loan wasnt appropriate for its business model as the company 
required flexibility in terms of loan repayment.  The company said that if it had been better 
informed about  break  costs, it would have borrowed at the variable rate or, at most, it would 
have managed the interest rate risk by another method and over a much shorter  period.
The company also complained that the bank ought  to have disclosed when the loan was 
being set up how it rewarded  its staff in terms of commission  for selling the fixed rate loan 
itself and the fixed interest rate. 
The bank partially upheld Ps complaint. It accepted the information it supplied  about break 
costs could have  been clearer. The bank offered to discontinue the fixed rate loan, without 
demanding break costs, from the date of the companys complaint and to charge the variable 
rate plus margin, which  was cheaper, from that date, making  the appropriate financial 
adjustments including paying interest on any reimbursements.
P didnt  accept the banks offer, continuing to argue it wouldnt have taken out the fixed  rate 
at all if it had known  how large the break  costs might  be.
Our adjudicator concluded the bank  had made  a fair and reasonable offer of settlement. He 
agreed the information the bank supplied about  break costs  wasnt adequate. But he found  
that even if the company had been  better  informed  about the potential  size of break costs, it 
would still have gone ahead with the fixed rate loan, albeit probably  for a shorter term of 
13 years  until the rent review fell due under the underlease. 
Specifically the adjudicator concluded: I believe that [the company] would most likely  have 
accepted the risk of paying a break  cost to secure  the fixed rate loan which offered them  
security over their payments and ensured they didnt breach the lending covenant [ie the 
105% ratio referred to above].
As the bank had offered  to discontinue the loan from a date earlier  than after 13 years, the 
adjudicator concluded P would be better off if it accepted the banks offer.
Ref: DRN81828792Regarding commission  payments,  the adjudicator said the bank had been under no 
obligation to disclose how it rewarded its staff.
P didnt  accept the adjudicators conclusions.  Via its representative it made the following 
points.
The fact the bank couldnt produce  the loan agreement put it in a very weak position in 
terms of enforcement. 
P didnt accept  that certain of its actions in 2015  indicated it had greater knowledge of 
break costs.
The figures surrounding the 105%  ratio were unclear and probably wrong.
If accurate and appropriate figures were  used, it would be seen P was less likely to 
breach the 105%  ratio if it had borrowed at the variable rate and market rates  then rose.
Similarly there were other methods of responding to or anticipating interest rate rises, 
such as managing the risk across Ps portfolio.
In the circumstances, it was inconceivable  P would have fixed for as long as 
13 or 20 years if it had known how large the break  costs might  be if it repaid the loan or 
part of it early.  The company would have  wished to retain flexibility  to respond to market 
conditions. 
The fact P had borrowed  on the variable rate in respect of another,  similar property 
indicated the company  didnt take the view that these  particular circumstances called for 
a fixed rate loan to be entered into. 
Apart from borrowing  instead at the variable rate, P might also have paid for an interest 
rate cap, though  for a shorter term and possibly covering  only 50% of the loan capital. 
P reiterated its concerns about the disclosure of commission. It said it wasnt  a question 
of staff remuneration  but of disclosing costs and charges and of a possible conflict  of 
interest on the part of the staff selling the fixed rate product. P said this view was 
supported by regulatory  requirements and standards.  
summary of my provisional  findings
I earlier issued a provisional decision on the complaint.  I came  to the conclusion that the 
bank had made a fair and reasonable offer of settlement. 
I made  the following comments and provisional findings.
I didnt think it was a crucial question whether the company in 2015 had shown a greater 
awareness of break costs. What mattered was whether  the company, via the information  
the bank supplied or otherwise, had an adequate  awareness,  before it entered  into the 
fixed rate loan, of how large the break costs might be. From the evidence available,  Id 
concluded P didnt  have that awareness. 
Clearly it wasnt helpful that neither the bank nor P could find their print of the original 
loan agreement. But the main terms of the loan were  clear   in particular  how much was 
borrowed, over what term, what the interest  rate was, and how and on what terms the 
loan was to be repaid.  The 105% ratio as a loan condition  also seemed to be clear. The 
ombudsman service  didnt treat a loan where  paperwork had been lost as being 
necessarily unenforceable.
I too found the figures relating to the 105% ratio unclear,  and I raised queries with the 
bank. The bank  had answered those queries by saying (a) the 107% figure in the banks 
papers related  to a proposed loan larger (at over £700k) than the loan P ultimately took 
out, and (b) the all-in  interest rate for a 13 year fix would  have been 6.19%, giving a ratio 
Ref: DRN81828793of around 115%. (The calculation of that ratio included what was owing under the 
variable rate loan and the income  from the other property.)
So I found  that (i) the ratios were calculated taking into account both loans and rental  
incomes, and (ii) although the interest rate for a 13 year fix would have been greater 
than for the 20 year fix, the 105% ratio would  still have been met.
While  the loan condition and the ratio should be given due weight, they shouldnt be 
given excessive  weight. It was possible P would  have entered into a fixed  rate loan even 
if thered been no ratio.
It was clear from the evidence that the bank had set out various  options  to P for hedging 
the interest rate including a fixed rate, a cap and a collar. The bank had left the choice to 
P and hadnt insisted  that P should hedge at all, let alone for 20 years.  The bank didnt 
advise P to hedge or fix. 
The company chose, without pressure  from the bank, to fix the interest rate for 20 years. 
So it couldnt be said that fixing the rate for that long was in principle wrong for Ps 
business model or that the company had no interest in fixing for that length of time. 
The question  was whether P would have still fixed  for 20 years if it had been better 
informed about  break  costs. On balance I didnt think  it would. The rent review  in 2019 was 
an upwards only one. This meant the companys rental  income could only rise. But the 
increased rent might be unattractive to the undertenant who might seek  to assign or 
surrender the underlease. Neither could happen  without Ps consent,  but the rent review 
created an uncertainty and provided  a watershed. After the rent had been  reviewed and 
increased, this might  also be an opportunity for P to sell the headlease with the benefit of 
the enhanced  rental  income and make a good  profit. If so, the loan would need to be 
repaid. 
On the whole, I too thought that with adequate information about  break  costs  P would 
have fixed the rate for 13 years, until the rent review. P had no apparent  plans to sell 
earlier. The underlease dated from the late 1960s  and the rent was reviewed only every 
25 years, meaning a large increase in rent was likely  to take place in 2019.  It made  
sense for P to retain the property at least until then.  Meanwhile there were attractions  in 
guarding against  interest rate rises  and fixing the rate at a level which ensured that the 
105% ratio, on which the loan continued  to be conditional, was satisfied.
As the monthly payments under a 13 year fix would have been greater than under the 
20 year fix, it follows P would be better off if it accepted the banks offer than if I 
recommended a 13 year fix as redress. 
Finally, there was, and there had been  in 2006, no legal or regulatory requirement for 
the bank to disclose what profit it made on a particular  commercial  loan transaction, nor 
to disclose  how it rewarded  its staff in relation to such business.  It would be a radical  
step if the ombudsman service  imposed  such an obligation  unilaterally and 
retrospectively, and I didnt consider fairness  required  us to do so.
So I was minded to confirm my view that Lloyds Bank Plc had made a fair and reasonable 
offer to settle Ps complaint in a way that wouldnt be exceeded by any award I made.  
the banks response to my provisional decision
The bank confirmed  it had nothing to add in the light of my provisional decision.
Ps response to my provisional decision
In addition to the points  it had already made,  P via its representative said it wanted  to 
highlight five key points in response  to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN81828794rationale for the recommended redress
It had been  shown that the banks figures for the debt service covenant   what Ive 
referred to as the 105% ratio  were wrong. This meant that the main rationale  for 
matching the fixed rate term (of the loan)  to the lease at 13 years, also fell away.
The rationale for the 13 year term, given by me in terms of uncertainty  caused by the 
rent review period, was unconvincing.  There was - in Ps view and based on the facts  
- no uncertainty over the likelihood of the increased  future  income.
potential errors causing  P to enter into the fixed rate loan
The errors committed by the bank suggested the possibility that similar errors 
occurred at the point of sale,  leading  to P fixing on an erroneous  basis.
factors to be considered when deciding redress
The factors that continued to be relevant to the question of what  P would otherwise 
have done were Ps lending history both before and after the sale of the fixed rate 
loan, and Ps operating business model.  Flexibility was key. 
P had taken out a variable rate loan for another, similar project  and the loan had 
been repaid early  in line with Ps business  model. 
Ps recollection was that in 2006 the bank had insisted  that the interest rate should  
be fixed, without  the option of taking a variable  rate loan. 
An (appropriate) interest  rate swap  was in principle more  suitable than a fixed  rate 
loan, as the latter restricted the ability to resell and P operated a portfolio of 
properties.
In terms of alternative products, the two most  likely  and reasonable options  were a 
75-100% cap or a 50% fix.
P queried whether the bank had indeed set out various options to P for hedging the 
interest rate including a fixed rate, a cap and a collar. 
disclosure of costs and charges
P would like me to state whether there  was a legal or regulatory breach by the bank  
owing to (a) the lack of disclosure  of the costs and charges of the product sold, or (b) 
the conflict of interest of the salesperson by not disclosing the interest he or she had, 
and in fact actively  hiding  it. 
banks redress outcome
P would like me to comment  on the logic of the banks offer, and in particular on the 
banks designation of the date of the initial complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the email sent recently 
by Ps representative, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint  P but I remain of the view that the bank  has made an 
offer of settlement that wouldnt be exceeded by any award of compensation I made.
Subject to my comments below, I confirm my provisional findings as final.
Ref: DRN81828795Even if P satisfied  the debt service  covenant comfortably at the outset, it was 
possible market interest rates would rise to a point where,  if the interest rate on the 
loan had been variable, the debt repayments would exceed the fixed  rental income. 
So I continue to think that fixing the interest  rate  on the whole loan - had obvious 
attractions. 
On balance, I continue to think that P was likely, when it took out the loan in 2006, to 
wait until the rent review had taken place  in 2019 before possibly disposing of the 
property and repaying the loan. Indeed,  the fact of taking  out the fixed rate loan can 
be interpreted as pointing  to a long-term commitment to the property.  
I remain of that view despite the other loan, which as it happens wasnt repaid until 
nearly twelve years after it was taken out. 
Apart from Ps recollections, theres no evidence the bank  required P to hedge or fix 
in 2006. 
Theres an email from the bank to P dated 26 May 2006  which  gave indicative 
quotes for a fix, a cap and a collar and which had three attachments called  profiles 
for you to review over the weekend . The profiles are what P has called the 
summary sheets. The email was from the employee at the bank whom P has called 
the salesperson  in this instance. 
The bank  didnt  give P advice regarding what loan arrangements would be most 
suitable, and wasnt obliged to offer P a loan linked to a swap.  I continue to think that 
the most  likely alternative product  would be a fixed rate loan with a shorter  term.
While  ultimately  the ombudsman service doesnt  make binding pronouncements  
about the law or regulations, Im not aware of any legal or regulatory requirement  in 
2006 for the bank to disclose any costs  and charges under a fixed  rate commercial 
loan beyond the all-in interest rate, which is the obvious ongoing charge for the fixed  
rate loan,  and any other ad hoc charges specifically payable by the borrower (eg 
arrangement fees, surveyors fees). Nor am I aware  of any legal or regulatory  
requirement in 2006, on the grounds  of a potential conflict  of interest or otherwise, for 
the bank or its staff to disclose specifically how staff who handled applications for 
commercial loans  were rewarded. Nor would I regard it as fair to effectively impose  
such disclosure obligations retrospectively.  
If, as I do, I think the banks existing offer of settlement would exceed what  I would 
award as compensation, that exhausts my remit, and its not then for me to otherwise 
comment on the banks  offer.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint as Lloyds Bank Plc has made  an offer to settle Ps complaint in 
a way that wouldnt be exceeded by any award  I made. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8182879