K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) delayed  
dealing with their flood claim under their household insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  having some plumbing  work done which  led to their bathroom flooding. 
They made a claim for the bathroom carpet and the ceilings below. While LV was dealing 
with the claim Mr and Mrs P said they were going  to be on holiday and asked  for any contact 
during that time to be by email.
While Mr and Mrs P were  on holiday LV tried to contact them by telephone.  Mr and Mrs P 
were unhappy  about  this and said theyd asked LV not to do this and it had further delayed 
their claim. Mr and Mrs P said theyd  provided  all the information  to LV and they didnt 
understand why it was taking so long to deal with their claim. LV issued  a final response  
saying there  were no avoidable delays. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this and brought  their 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said as LV hadnt  used Mr and Mrs Ps preferred 
method of contact this had delayed the claim.  Because  of this our investigator  said LV 
should compensate  Mr and Mrs P with £50 for the delay. LV didnt accept this and asked for 
the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
LV think  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was just about  delays. But to me delays includes the 
wider point Mr and Mrs P made  about  customer service. This service has an inquisitorial 
remit. So, in line with that I can deal with such issues as part of this complaint.
LV said despite  trying  to contact Mr and Mrs P on the telephone  it also followed up the same  
day by email. Mr and Mrs P said they never received the email  and they said this is what  led 
to some of the delay.
Ive looked at the timescales LV took to deal with matters and I cant  see any unreasonable 
delays. LV produced a record to show what it was doing throughout the claim and the 
timescales are reasonable. Although Mr and Mrs P were unhappy that LV didnt comply  with 
their request, I dont  think this led to extra delays. LV sent the email  the same day and 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  respond to the phone call.
Our investigator said there was a gap between the phone call and the email of 11 days, but 
LV has shown that it did send an email the same day. So, I think an apology  is a suitable 
outcome in the circumstances. LV didnt cause any extra  delays, but it didnt do what it had 
agreed to with Mr and Mrs P, so it should apologise.  I understand that Mr and Mrs P say 
they never got the email,  but LV has shown it was sent.
In this case I think an apology is a reasonable outcome. LV didnt do what  it had agreed  to 
do but this didnt impact  on Mr and Mrs Ps claim or their holiday.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN82566092LV responded to say it was happy to issue  an apology.
Mr and Mrs P responded. The main  points Ive taken from their response are as follows:
The time taken by LV wasnt acceptable;
The claim couldve been settled  long before;
LV should take note and provide customers with better service through  reputable  and 
reliable contractors or give a like for like cash amount to settle the claim at the start.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sense the frustration in Mr and Mrs Ps response. But theres  nothing  in their response 
that makes me think I need to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
Write  Mr and Mrs P a letter of apology.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8256609