K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
The policy was sold nearly  17 years ago and unsurprisingly weve  very little information 
regarding the sale  and limited original  documentation. So its very difficult for me to say 
with any confidence  what happened.  I have to consider whether Bank of Scotland  made  it 
clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have  to take out the MPPI and whether they chose  to take it 
out.
Mr and Mrs B say wouldnt  have taken it out and it was added  without their consent but they 
dont have any particular  recollections, which isnt surprisingly given the time that has 
passed. Im not aware of any specific concerns with how MPPI was sold by Bank of Scotland 
at this time.  And without any information  to go on, I dont think I can fairly say that Bank of 
Scotland didnt  give Mr and Mrs B a choice.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mrs B only, so it had to check  that the MPPI 
was right for her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr and Mrs B say that they both had 6 months and more sick pay cover and therefore if Mrs 
B was unable to work her sick pay could cover  her part of the mortgage repayments. And the 
same if both were out of work, so they didnt need the MPPI. But the MPPI also covered Mrs 
B if she was made redundant.  And if Mrs B was long-term sick the MPPI wouldve paid out 
alongside any sick pay she wouldve received. So I dont think this means  that the MPPI was 
unsuitable for them.
I can also see that Mrs B made  a successful claim on the policy. Given that the premium 
appears to have been around the £12 mark, the monthly benefit was £394 and the policy  
only ran for two years, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B paid more  in premiums than they 
actually received from the policy. So even  if this complaint was upheld,  I think  its likely  Mr 
and Mrs B wouldnt be due any money  back in any event.
The MPPI was a comparatively low cost policy when compared  to what it could  pay out. And 
the consequences of missing repayments on a mortgage could be serious.  So I think the PPI 
wouldve given Mr and Mrs B some  peace of mind that if she lost her job her mortgage  
repayments would be met.
 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something 
Ref: DRN89831892went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  and make  no 
award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8983189