K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) wont  meet their 
claim for a lost item of jewellery. They made  a claim for this under their home  insurance  
policy.
background
Mrs A lost her diamond bracelet in late April 2018. A few days  later she contacted RSA to 
make a claim for this. She didnt have  a receipt for it, although she did later provide a photo 
of her wearing it. She told RSA she thought  the bracelet was worth  about £1,000 and had 
been a gift. She hadnt reported the loss to the police.
About a week later Mrs A contacted RSA again.  By this time shed reported the loss on an 
appropriate website   as shed been  told the police  no longer issue  reference numbers for 
lost items. She said she now thought the bracelet was worth about £1,300.
RSA appointed a specialist to look at the claim. They contacted  Mrs A. The subsequent  
report says Mrs A thought  the bracelet had about  3.5 carats of diamonds in total,  with each 
diamond about 0.3 carats. Mrs A got that information from the friend who bought it for her, 
who had in turn contacted the jeweller  she got the bracelet from. It was suggested the 
replacement value was between £1,600 and £1,800. 
Mrs A had lost the phone number and name of the jeweller  and the specialist  said Mrs A 
was reluctant to go back to her friend for more information.
The specialist went on to say Mrs As description  of the weight of carats  didnt match the 
suggested valuation   a bracelet with 3.5 carats of diamonds would cost more than the 
estimate Mrs A had provided.  It also noted  that Mrs A had provided a revised estimate of the 
value, from a jeweller (not the original  seller)  who provided a valuation  based on Mrs As 
description of her bracelet. The jeweller  described  the total diamond weight as 1.2 carats.  
The valuation was £1,800.
RSA decided it wouldnt meet Mr and Mrs As claim,  because the information shed provided 
was inconsistent. It said it couldnt estimate  the size of the diamonds from the photo shed 
provided, and without more evidence couldnt be sure of the value of the bracelet. It noted 
Mrs As friend might contact RSA to help clarify the value of the bracelet.
Mr and Mrs A complained but RSA didnt change its stance. Mr and Mrs A then brought  their 
complaint to us. Mrs A asked us to disregard  the comments  shed  made about the carat 
weight as she isnt an expert, and says she didnt ask RSA to not contact the friend who 
bought the bracelet.
Our investigator thought RSA was acting  reasonably  when it refused to meet  the claim, so 
she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs A remain unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87933452Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
One of the underlying principles when  making a claim for a lost item is that a customer  be 
able to reasonably  show  they owned  the item in question. The best way to do that is with a 
receipt  but insurers do understand that for items  that are gifts this isnt always possible. So 
they will accept other  forms of evidence, like a photo  of the item  the bracelet in this case  
being worn.
Mrs A provided one photo that doesnt show much detail although she is wearing  a bracelet 
similar to the description she gave RSA. So I dont doubt Mrs A had such  a bracelet.
The next step is to get a realistic idea of the cost of replacement. Mrs A says the friend who 
bought the bracelet for her provided some detail about it  but she only told the specialist the 
weight of the diamonds and the likely replacement cost. Unfortunately  the information she 
provided doesnt match the suggested  value of the bracelet. Mrs A has said,  at various 
times, that the bracelet  cost between £1,000 and £1,800. But the description she gave the 
specialist suggested  a likely value about  three times this.
I think its fair to say the information thats been  provided has been inconsistent   although I 
do accept that Mrs A isnt, as she says, a specialist in jewellery.
Mrs A recently told us that she didnt refuse to allow contact with her friend.  I accept her 
point, but I also think  its fair for RSA to rely on the contemporaneous report  it got from the 
specialist. RSAs representative later told Mrs A it was willing to talk to the friend who bought  
the bracelet in a letter (sent in June 2018), although it doesnt look like this happened.  
Based on the information provided I think its reasonable  for RSA to say it wont pay Mr and 
Mrs As claim. If Mr and Mrs A can provide more acceptable evidence of the ownership and 
value of the bracelet (and maybe Mrs As friend could help here)  Id expect RSA to 
reconsider the claim. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793345