K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out MPPI at the same time as they took out a mortgage in 2001. The 
policy initially cost around £30 a month.  It only covered Mr A. And if hed successfully  
claimed on the policy, each month it initially would have paid out around £500.  The MPPI 
would have covered him for up to 24 months  for accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A didnt 
agree so the case has been passed  to me to make decide. 
my findings
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Weve explained  how we generally  handle  complaints about the sale of payment protection  
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint because: 
I think they chose  to take out the MPPI.  I say this because Ive seen Mr and Mrs As 
signed mortgage application  form. This has a section in it dealing with MPPI.  This says 
that Halifax recommends  that the applicants  consider taking out the insurance. I can see 
that Mr A has signed this section  to indicate that he is interested  in taking out the policy.  
Further Ive seen  that Mr A has signed a separate application for the MPPI.
I am satisfied that the above forms show that Mr A knew that the insurance was optional  
and that he chose to take it out;
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs A to take out MPPI. This means that It had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for their needs. I find that it was suitable. 
This is because, knowing what I do about the terms and conditions of the policy and 
Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time:
oMr A was eligible  for the MPPI;
oMr A wasnt caught by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions   such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr A says that he was entitled to some  sick pay from his employer and that he and 
Mrs A had some savings or other  insurance to help them  make their mortgage  
repayments had Mr A not been working.  But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this and for a longer period  than his sick pay, leaving these other  means 
available to help with Mr and Mrs As other expenses. So I find that the insurance 
could have been on use to Mr and Mrs A;
Ref: DRN82064392oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference  to other polices  available  in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs A couldnt  afford  it. In any event, as it was paid for monthly,  
if they had later felt that they no longer wanted  the policy or that the premiums were 
unaffordable, they could have cancelled it;
oMr and Mrs A were  both working. But as Mr A was the main earner I dont find the 
fact that he was the only person  covered by the insurance made  the policy 
unsuitable.
The MPPI application form, to which Ive referred  earlier, set out the initial  premiums  and 
monthly benefit  payable. I dont know what else Halifax told Mr and Mrs A about  the 
MPPI. So its possible  Halifax didnt  give them all the information that it ought to have 
about the policy so that they could make a fully informed decision whether to take it or 
not. But as Ive explained, I think Mr and Mrs A had some need for the cover.  So I think 
that its unlikely  that clearer information  would have put them  off taking out the MPPI.  
Thats because I think its likely they would  have  decided  it provided valuable cover at a 
reasonable cost.  I say this particularly bearing in mind  the serious consequences that 
could have arisen if they hadnt  been able to make  their monthly  mortgage  repayments
This means  that Mr and Mrs A arent  worse off as a result of anything that Halifax  might have 
done wrong. So theres nothing I require it to put right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8206439