K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to her irresponsibly. 
She has explained that their repayments  were  crippling  me as the interest was so high, 
I had to borrow money to pay them back.  
background
Using information from Mr Lender  I have created a loan table giving brief details of the 
approved loans. I have  used  the loan numbers in the table in the decision.
LoanFunds  
transferred dateCapital 
borrowedInterest paid
(rounded)Loan  settled 
dateAgreed  
instalment  
numbers
110 December 
2013£200 £12024 January  
2014*one
2 31 January 2014 £150 £135 17 April 2014* one
323 December 
2014£300 £11020 February 
2015two 
417 December 
2015£150 £432 February  
2016 #two
5 22 August 2016 £320 £282 September 
2016 #six
615 September 
2016£200 £672 November  
2016 #six
725 November 
2016£400 £712 February  
2017 #five
8 27 June 2017 £1,200 £97416 February 
2018 #twelve
9 4 June 2018 £1,500 £1,26118 February 
2019 #twelve
* = later than original repayment date
# = repaid early
I attach my provisional decision dated 29 July 2019,  which forms part of this final decision 
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I intended to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. I invited both parties  to provide any further 
comments they may have  by 12 August  2019  before I reached a further decision.
Mr Lender and Mrs M have responded to my provisional decision  well before the reply  date. 
Both have  agreed  with it and have nothing further to add. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision on 29 July 2019.
Ref: DRN87976602putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on Loans 8 and 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement ;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 8 and 9 from Mrs Ms credit  
file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 29 July 2019, I uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint in part. 
PDL Finance  Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, should put things right for Mrs M in the way 
I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision on or before 2 September 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87976603the main  part of the provisional decision dated 29 July 2019
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered. 
periods of non-lending 
Firstly I address the gaps in lending. I do think that the gaps between  Loans 2 and 3, Loans 3 and 4 
and Loans 4 and 5 were  large enough for it to be a reasonable approach by Mr Lender to view them 
as breaks in a loan chain. All of them were  over six months and two were  much longer.
I think  a new loan chain  started  on 22 August  2016  (Loan 5) and continued  for two and a half years to 
February 2019. And so I have treated  the series  of loans  from August 2016 to the end of the 
relationship with Mrs M as one loan chain. I explain  why I have done this here. 
During the loan chain I have  referred to above, there was a gap between Loans 7 and 8 and again  
between Loans 8 and 9. They are shorter than the previous  ones and Mrs M was borrowing a larger  
amount over a longer  term. So I think it is fair and reasonable that I have decided to choose to treat 
these shorter gaps  differently than the longer ones in 2014 and 2015.  
I have thought  about  the rationale behind  considering the position and effect of breaks  in lending 
chains: it stems from the fact that a break may be an indication that the applicant had not required 
financial assistance during the interim period  between the earlier loan and the new application  and 
that his or her finances had recovered. The longer the gap the more likely this may be the case: the 
shorter the gap the less likely. 
In this instance,  between Mrs Ms Loan 7 and applying  for Loan 8 it was under a five month gap after 
more than five months of lending (Loans 5, 6 and 7). So I do say that this is finely balanced. And I do 
note that even  Mr Lender has acknowledged  that it quizzed Mrs M further when  she applied for 
Loan 8 as it was her fourth application in ten months. And I think  that this additional questioning 
shows that Mr Lender must  have  thought  it necessary,  and the type of question  asked of her suggests  
to me that Mr Lenders concern related to her financial situation because she was asking for another  
loan. So I have noted that it represented a concern.  
And so at the time the period  between paying off Loan 7 and applying for loan 8 was not a gap 
leading Mr Lender  to think all was fine with Mrs M  quite  the reverse: its question  to her about her 
finances was because of the concern that she was coming back for another loan.
With this part of the decision  in relation to the periods of non-lending having  been done, then 
I proceeded to review  the loans with this in mind.  
the merits
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mrs M could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN87976604But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments  were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the sustainable  is defined  as being  without  undue  difficulties and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Loans 1 to 5 
I have reviewed these loans which,  with the long gaps in lending, would each be viewed as being  
applications where  proportionate checks were likely  to include knowing  the details  about Mrs Ms 
finances being her income and her outgoings as declared by her. I note that Mr Lender did have that 
information from Mrs M and that the figures presented together with the credit bureau checks it says it 
got would likely have  presented to Mr Lender that Mrs M was able to afford these  loans. 
I am planning  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint  about  those five loans.
Loans 6 and 7
I think  that a new loan chain  started with Loan  5 and Loan 6 was the second loan in that chain. It was 
for a lesser  amount than Loan 5 and it was for six months. The checks  I would have considered  
proportionate at this stage of this loan chain  lending  relationship were  that Mr Lender knew Mrs Ms 
income and expenditure  then I think that Mr Lender had the information it needed  to assess Mrs Ms 
application satisfactorily.  
I am planning  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint  in relation to Loan 6.
Loan 7 was the third loan in as many months and for a larger amount than the previous two. And Mrs 
Ms application for a £400 loan in late November  2016 brought the total request for cash to £920  in 
three months. This would,  in my view, have been a demonstration  that Mrs M was not succeeding in 
managing her finances.  
Ref: DRN87976605So I would have expected Mr Lender to have carried out additional checks and I would  expect those 
to have included a detailed look at Mrs Ms outgoings  including her regular  financial commitments and 
other short  term loan commitments she may have  had. 
I have not received full details of the credit bureau check results Mr Lender carried out and so I have 
used the information available to me and provided by Mrs M to see what it would  have seen in 
November 2016.
Using Mrs Ms bank statements and her personal  credit file I have been able to see that she had an 
outstanding STL with another lender for £300. That was repayable in instalments.  This application for 
Loan 7 was also going to be repaid  by instalments  and the highest repayment amount for Loan 7 was 
£90 with reducing  instalment amounts as the months went by. So overall  I think that even  if Mr Lender 
had done more  I think it would have assessed Mrs Ms application for Loan 7 as being affordable.  
I am planning  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint  about  Loan  7.
Loan 8 and 9 
Loan 8 was for a much larger sum and the indebtedness  to Mr Lender was due to have been 
increased by 12 months having  already  been lending  to Mrs M for ten months in this loan chain. So 
I think  that a full review  of her finances would  have been a proportionate approach especially  
considering that she earnt about £1,500 a month (as declared)  and sought a loan for £1,200.  
I do not think  that Mr Lender did carry out a full financial review including verification of her income,  
checking her outgoings her regular and STL commitments. If it had I think that Mr Lender would likely  
have seen that Mrs M had other short term lending  commitments at the time of the loan application  of 
around £1,050 with one lender and £925 with another lender. And I can see that a third lenders  loan 
closed on the day that the Mr Lender loan 8 was approved. 
I note that Mr Lender says that it carried  out checks and before Loan 8 its search  results showed  no 
outstanding STL.  As I have not got the full results of those checks, and as my information  shows me 
otherwise then I am proceeding on the basis that Mrs M did have other STL at the time she applied  
for Loan 8. 
I refer back  to Mrs Ms complaint and she has said she had to borrow from others to repay  loans 
outstanding. Borrowing to repay other debts is a clear  sign of unsustainable debt levels  and reviewing  
Mrs Ms finances I think that this was what she was doing.  And I dont think  that Mr Lender ought to 
have approved Loan  8. I am planning to uphold  Loan 8.
Having seen  the difficulties  Mrs M was in then I also think  that it was irresponsible for Mr Lender to 
approve Loan  9. I say this because  Mrs M had been  borrowing for a time approaching two years 
when she applied for Loan 9 and it was for a larger principal amount of £1,500 and her indebtedness  
would have been extended  further. And there are signs of Mrs M not being  able to manage her money 
and so I am planning to uphold  Loan  9.
end of extract
Ref: DRN8797660