K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited incorrectly recorded  a 
claim against her car insurance policy.
All references to Advantage include its agents.
background
Mrs Bs car insurance policy is underwritten  by Advantage. On 12 November 2018  
Advantage wrote to Mrs B to say it had received a claim  from a third party for an incident  in 
January 2018.
Mrs B contacted Advantage and said she wasnt involved in any incident. Advantage 
removed the incident two weeks later as it said it had recorded it by mistake.  Mrs B 
complained to Advantage. She said it had caused  her considerable worry and 
inconvenience.
Advantage upheld Mrs Bs complaint  and apologised. It paid Mrs B £75 compensation. 
Mrs B contacted us as she felt the compensation Advantage had paid her was derisory.  
She explained that on the day she received Advantages  letter,  she was working from home  
and was contracted by a company to carry out interviews by telephone. Mrs B said she was 
in no fit state to speak  to people. Mrs B said that Advantages  letter  made her question  
herself as to whether shed had an incident but hadnt remembered it. She said she spent 
considerable time on the phone that day  and subsequent  days - speaking to Advantage to 
get an update. 
Our investigator thought Advantage couldve resolved the issue sooner than it did  and 
therefore caused Mrs B unnecessary distress. So she thought  Advantage should pay Mrs B 
a further £100 compensation.
Mrs B accepted the investigators findings.  Advantage didnt agree. It believes it did enough 
to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Advantages notes,  it seems the contact it received from a third party didnt have 
Mrs Bs details  or her registration number. Even so, Advantage wrote  to Mrs B on 
12 November 2018 and asked her to contact it to discuss the claim  and to complete an 
accident report form. 
Mrs B called Advantage on 16 November 2018. Advantages notes read:
PH (policyholder) Called - very upset - has never had a claim - checked on file we 
have no details - no location , circs (circumstances) etc. - letter from TPS (third party 
solicitor) on file - different accident date and different PH
Ref: DRN85938802So it seems  that when Mrs B called  Advantage, it was aware  that the information it had from 
the third party  didnt appear  to relate  to Mrs B. Advantage tried to call the third party  solicitor  
 and Mrs B back on the same day  but wasnt able to speak  to either.
On 21 November 2018 Mrs B called Advantage for an update. The agent said that the next 
step would  be to wait for the third party solicitors to reply. If they continue  to claim, 
Advantage will instruct an engineer to inspect  Mrs Bs car. And  it may need to defend  the 
matter in court  which Mrs B agreed she was willing to attend. Mrs B reiterated the stress 
this issue was causing her. 
On 27 November 2018 Mrs Bs husband  called Advantage. The agent recognised that the 
third partys  allegation letter wasnt for Mrs Bs policy. The agent told Mr B that the claim had 
been registered in error  and apologised. Mr B complained. 
I understand Advantage believes the compensation its paid Mrs B is appropriate for the 
level of distress and inconvenience  it caused  her. 
I think this is a finely balanced case in deciding a fair and reasonable level of compensation. 
But I think Mrs B has clearly explained  what impact the letter had on her  and the time she 
spent speaking with Advantage.  I can understand the upset Mrs B felt when she received 
Advantages letter dated 12 November  2018   and the further worry Advantage caused 
when it told Mrs B she may need to attend court. 
From Advantages notes,  it seems that it wasnt necessary to contact Mrs B at all. I think  - if 
it had carried out further checks when it was first contacted by the third party  solicitor - it 
would have reached the same decision it reached  on 27 November 2018.  I say this because  
Advantage didnt  receive any further information between  12 and 27 November 2018.
So I think Advantage caused  Mrs B unnecessary distress and inconvenience which also had 
an impact on her work.  And so in this case,  I think its fair and reasonable for Advantage to 
increase the compensation its paid Mrs B by a further £100. This is in addition to the £75 its 
already paid her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs B £100 compensation in addition  to the 
£75 its already paid her for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Ref: DRN85938803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8593880