K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mrs T has said, but overall, and from what  I understand 
about Bank  of Scotlands sales practice  at the time,  I think its most likely that 
Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mrs T didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she might not be able to remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs T so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems  to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve  been. But Mrs T chose to take it out  so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, including  what shes  said about her sick pay, 
savings, life insurance, and her husband.  But the policy  was designed  to protect against the 
unexpected, and pay out at what couldve been  a difficult time  I understand that if Mrs T 
had lost her job or was unable to work, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months. It 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs T mightve received,  and irrespective of any 
savings. And I dont think the level of Mrs Ts sick pay entitlement  and savings was likely 
such that the policy was unsuitable.  I also dont think the life insurance Mrs T has said she 
held made  the policy unsuitable. So for these reasons,  and the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my decision. 
This means  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mrs T paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs T 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs T now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Ref: DRN80905572my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8090557