K822xcomplaint
Mr Z complains on behalf of Mrs Z about issues shes experienced with a car supplied by 
Lex Autolease Ltd.
background 
Mrs Z was supplied  with a car under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease. She experienced 
issues with a noise  coming from the car when  applying the brakes. The brake pads and 
discs were replaced but Mrs Z continued to experienced issues.  Lex Autolease has since 
allowed Mrs Z to reject  the car.
Mrs Z wants her advance  rental deposit  refunded and her excess mileage charges waived. 
She also wants compensation.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said there had been  repeated  attempts to repair  
the brakes at the point where Mrs Z first requested to reject  the car in May 2018. She also 
said that the £300 vouchers offered to Mrs Z werent sufficient and recommended increased  
compensation and an adjustment of the last months rental charges.
Lex Autolease didnt agree. It said Mrs Z was liable for the entire months rental  as per the 
agreement. It also said there was no evidence that the car had a point  of supply fault and 
that the investigators comments regarding the opportunity to repair werent relevant. It didnt 
agree that further compensation was justified and said the excess  mileage charges were  fair 
because the same issue wouldve arisen had the car been rejected earlier.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the cars service history  and I can see that it was returned with issues relating 
to the brakes  on eight  separate  occasions. The front and rear brake pads were removed and 
cleaned and refitted in June  2016.  In September 2016 the rear discs and pads were 
replaced. In January 2018 the rear discs and pads  were  replaced again. In April 2018 the 
front brake pads  were replaced  and in May 2018  the rear brake  pads were replaced.
Its clear from the service history  that there have been repeated repairs to the brakes.  I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  the brakes to require  repair so many  times on a car 
which was new at the point of supply.  Although  brake discs and pads are a serviceable item, 
I dont think they should  have required replacement so early on in the agreement. I think its 
more likely that an inherent fault caused the brakes  to wear faster than expected.  
Taking into account the number of times the brakes had to be repaired, and taking into 
account the age and mileage of the car, I dont think the brakes were durable, which means 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. I think that Mrs Z should have been allowed to 
reject the car in May 2018 when she first requested to do so.
Despite the issues  with the brakes, I can see that Mrs Z has had fair use of the car. So I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Lex Autolease  to refund any of Mrs Zs monthly  payments.
Ref: DRN83441512Ive already commented on the number of times  the car was returned with brake issues. 
Mrs Z has said that she felt unsafe  whilst driving the car. Taking into account  the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to Mrs Z, I think  she should be paid compensation. 
Ive taken into account that Lex Autolease has already  provided  Mrs Z with £300  worth of 
vouchers. However,  these  vouchers  are effectively worthless in Mrs Zs hands  because they 
can only be redeemed at Landrover.
Im of the view that Mrs Z should have been  allowed to reject the car in May 2018. I think it 
wouldve been more  appropriate to offer her £300 cash as compensation rather  than the 
vouchers. But given that this wasnt what happened, and taking into account  the further 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs Z since May 2018, I think that the compensation 
should be increased.
I can see that Lex Autolease has agreed  to deduct the unused portion of Mrs Zs initial rental  
payment from her final invoice. This is what I would have recommended, so I wont comment 
further on this point.
In relation to Mrs Zs monthly rentals,  I understand that there are arrears  relating to the rental 
period 28 September 2018  to 24 October 2018 and from 25 October  2018 to 24 November 
2018. The car was collected on 21 November 2018. 
I cant see that Lex Autolease made it clear to Mrs Z that she would be liable for rent beyond 
the date when the car was actually  collected.  So she didnt have the opportunity  to agree  or 
disagree to this, or to arrange collection for the last day of the rental.  Because of this, I dont  
think its fair that Mrs Z should be charged for the full rental period. The rent for the period 28 
September to 24 October 2018  should  be paid but the rent from 25 October 2018 should  be 
recalculated up to and including 21 November  2018  only.
In relation to excess mileage, Im of the view that Mrs Zs request to reject in May 2018 
should have been accepted. I havent  seen  any evidence from Lex Autolease  to suggest that 
Mrs Z would have been liable to pay any excess mileage charges in May 2018. That being 
the case, I dont  think Mrs Z should  be responsible for any excess mileage charges now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Lex Autolease  Limited should:
Deduct the unused portion of the initial  rental  payment from the final invoice
Adjust the rental charge  for the period 25 October 2018  to 24 November  2018  to 21 
November 2018.
Remove any excess mileage charges
Remove any adverse  information from Mrs Zs credit file
Pay compensation of £450 to Mrs Z.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83441513
Ref: DRN8344151