K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) has:
not treated  him sympathetically given his circumstances
handled his complaint  poorly
not responded to his letters
regularly sent arrears letters when the account  wasnt in arrears
background
Mr L has been represented by his wife throughout this complaint but for ease Ill refer to Mr L 
throughout this decision, although  I understand many of the actions will have been  his wifes.
Mr Ls debt was purchased by Link in February 2015. The balance was £3,235.65  at that 
time. In October 2017 he wrote to Link and asked for his debt to be written  off. He explained 
that he had mental  health issues that meant he could only work part time; his earning  
potential was limited;  he was in a debt management  plan and his debt wouldnt  be paid off 
for 96 years. He also explained that his children needed care and this was impacting on his 
wifes earnings potential. He said there was no realistic prospect of him being  able to pay off 
the debt and it was having  a severe impact on his and his familys well being. 
Link didnt respond  and Mr L had to send  additional  letters in December 2017  and in January 
2018 before  a response arrived. He included,  in those  responses, his debt and mental health 
evidence form (DMHEF)  in which  his clinician set out the impact that continued debt was 
having on his health and in which it was explained  that his wife had now had to take over the 
management of his financial affairs. 
Link eventually responded at the end of January 2018. They  referred Mr L to their specialist  
support team but this transition never took place and in the interim period they also sent Mr L 
arrears letters. He complained to them  that this amounted  to harassment and was 
particularly distressing as his letters  of complaint  were being ignored.
In their final response in May 2018,  Link apologised  for the inconvenience caused. They 
explained that they had made a mistake to suggest he could be referred to their specialist 
team, as this could  only happen if the account  was defaulted. They  also explained  that they 
had been unaware of Mr Ls vulnerabilities  when they purchased the debt, as the original 
creditor hadnt explained this to them. They offered Mr L £50 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  their actions had caused.
But Mr L was dissatisfied with their approach and he therefore contacted this service where 
our adjudicator reviewed  his complaint.  She didnt think Link had done enough. She noted 
that Mr L had provided evidence  that demonstrated hed been suffering from mental health 
issues since 1997 and that this impacted on his work  and his earning capacity. She noted 
that his income  and expenditure  statement showed his disposable income had decreased  
significantly and that meant making payments to Link was now unaffordable for him. She 
explained that she would have expected Link to do more to support Mr L and she thought it 
was wrong for them not to escalate his complaint to the specialist support team  simply 
because he hadnt  defaulted. She identified that the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCAs)  
handbook said they must  identify clear policies  to identify and deal with vulnerable 
customers but she noted that Link hadnt  been able to provide her with a copy of any such 
Ref: DRN84742342procedures and she therefore didnt think there was evidence theyd provided him with 
sufficient support. 
She went on to consider  the income  and expenditure  statement  that Mr L had supplied  to 
Link in February 2018. She said it was clear he only had a disposable income of £3 a month 
and she thought theyd been wrong to encourage top up payments  to make sure Mr L didnt  
default. So overall, she thought the best resolution  would be for Link to write off the 
remaining debt as there was clearly  no realistic prospect of him being able to repay  it.
Link disagreed  with the adjudicators view.  They  acknowledged that their letter in March 
could have been phrased better but they explained that, regardless of whether the handling 
of Mr Ls file was handed  to the specialist team, he would have had sufficient support as staff 
in the collections  department were  trained to deal with people with varying  vulnerabilities. 
They said if theyd reduced Mr Ls payments  any further they would have had to default  his 
account and they hadnt done so because  they were concerned about the impact this would  
have on his credit file. So they asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Link has done enough  here. I dont think theres  a realistic prospect that this 
debt will ever be paid off and I think,  in the circumstances,  it would be reasonable for them  to 
write it off. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L has evidently been unwell for many years. There  is evidence in his DMHES that the 
debts he has are causing him severe  anxiety and there appears little prospect  that hell ever 
be in a position to pay off his debt. Indeed his position is worsening  and this can be seen 
from the income and expenditure  statement he completed.  
Whilst I accept  that Link were not told about Mr Ls vulnerability, when they purchased  the 
debt, it is clear that they were made aware  of it later and certainly by October 2017 when he 
wrote to them and explained the situation in detail.
Once a business is aware  of a consumers  vulnerability we would expect them, as would 
their legislator the FCA, to put their vulnerability  policy into action. Link hasnt provided us 
with a copy of that policy  but I would expect it, amongst  other issues, to consider access  to 
specialist support; the potential for dedicated support and rapid escalation so that vulnerable 
consumers arent kept waiting.
Id also expect them to be sympathetic  and understanding  of the consumers position.
Ref: DRN84742343But here I dont  think  Link has done enough  to support Mr L. It referred him to the specialist 
support team but that referral never happened. Link has explained  that it would have made 
no difference because their collections  department  were well trained but I dont necessarily  
agree. I can see that a member of the specialist team did initially  speak with Mr Ls 
representative and that appears  to be the only time when progress was made. I can see the 
letters from Mr L regularly praised this agent and this team. Its also difficult to understand 
the purpose of a specialist support team and why Mr L was considered  for referral, if it 
wasnt because they were better prepared to support him. So I think its most likely Mr L 
would have benefitted from such a referral and Link should have done  that irrespective of the 
account not having defaulted.
And its clear  that Link were very slow to respond  to the letters  Mr L sent them  asking for his 
circumstances to be taken  into account.  It took three  months for him to get any sort of 
answer and I think Link could have responded more rapidly  given his exceptional 
circumstances.
Whilst Link suggested they were helping Mr L by continuing to take top up payments I dont 
think that was the case. Mr L had significant additional debt with other organisations and was 
being supported  through a debt management  company.  I cant see that they engaged with 
Mr L to see if hed prefer to pay token payments or continue topping up his contribution but I 
think, if they had, he would  be more  likely  to have accepted the default  and to have reduced 
his outgoings;  especially  as this would have  entitled him to specialist  support.
So overall, I think Link have not managed Mr L as well as they could. The medical  evidence  
and Mr Ls consistent  testimony suggest there  is little prospect of this debt being paid and I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Link to accept this and write off the debt that 
remains.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Link Financial Outsourcing  
Limited to write off Mr Ls outstanding  debt with them. They  should report  the debt as 
partially settled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8474234