K820x#14complaint
Mr M doesnt think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has offered  him fair compensation 
in response to a complaint about  the sale of five payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 21 February  2020.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I dont 
think RBS needs  to pay Mr M more compensation.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision  and says it has nothing  to add. 
Mr M hasnt  replied at all  but as well as writing to him, weve  emailed him and phoned him. 
So hes had the opportunity to comment on my provisional decision or send me any further  
evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any further comments or evidence, I confirm the findings I made in my 
provisional decision. My reasons remain the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont think The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc needs to pay Mr M more  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85428702Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr M doesnt think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has offered him fair compensation in 
response to a complaint about the sale of five payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies.
background
Mr M took out five loans with his then wife  Ill call her Ms M. With each loan, they were  sold a PPI 
policy.
In 2009, Mr M entered into an individual voluntary  arrangement (IVA).  Mr M told us Ms M entered  into 
an IVA too. When the IVAs came to an end, Mr and Ms M still owed RBS £15,214.55.
In 2015, Mr M, who was represented by a claims management company (CMC), complained that two 
of the policies were mis-sold. RBS upheld the complaint and offered him £14,643.75 (after tax). It 
doesnt look like Mr M accepted the offer or took any further action.
Mr M has sent us letters  from RBS to Ms M, which show that RBS upheld a complaint from her in 
2018 that the five PPI policies  were mis-sold. Mr M says it paid her half the PPI compensation  for 
each loan, without making any deduction for arrears.
Mr M then got in touch with RBS. It offered Mr M the other half of the PPI compensation for the three 
policies he hadnt already complained about, which  was £3,216.20 (after tax). Mr M signed separately 
to accept all three offers. At the same  time,  he signed  two other forms to accept the compensation he 
was originally  offered in 2015 for the other two policies.
Mr M was able to cash one cheque for £2,813.72 and another for £2,296.59. So in total,  hes received 
payments worth £5,110.31 so far. RBS has kept the rest of his compensation  to reduce  the debt from 
which he and Ms M were discharged when  their IVAs came to an end.
Mr M doesnt think its fair that RBS has used some of his PPI compensation to reduce  the money  he 
and Ms M borrowed and didnt repay, when it paid her all her PPI compensation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS accepts that the PPI policies  were mis-sold,  I dont need to decide whether or not they were. 
And Mr M hasnt queried the amount he and Ms M owed when their IVAs came to an end or the total 
amount of PPI compensation  theyve been offered. So all thats left for me to decide is whether RBS 
has acted fairly in using some of Mr Ms share of the PPI compensation to reduce  monies owed and 
left unpaid when the IVAs  came to an end.
First, its important I explain that Ms M hasnt joined  this complaint. There  are lots of reasons  why Id 
usually require all eligible complainants to consent to, and participate in, a complaint  not least  
because, if Im going to make a decision that affects someone in any way, its only fair that I hear what 
he or she has to say. However, in this case, I dont think my decision  will affect Ms M, so I dont think  
its inappropriate to deal with this complaint without her consent.
Second, I wouldnt, ordinarily, think it was unfair for a business to use a consumers PPI 
compensation to reduce a debt from which  hes been  discharged. The reason  is simple:  I think  it 
would be very unfair to tell a business to refund the extra the consumer paid for PPI before  he entered 
into the IVA, when he doesnt  now have  to pay back a lot more. Mr M told us he doesnt disagree  with 
this in principle. But hes unhappy that he and Ms M have been treated differently. And thats 
Ref: DRN85428703understandable. But I need to decide  whether or not RBS has paid Mr M fair compensation. I think  it 
has and Ill explain why.
As Ive explained above, Mr M and Ms M still owed  RBS £15,214.55 when their IVAs came to an end. 
And the total compensation payable  (after  tax) for all five PPI policies  was £23,112.96. (Ive used the 
letters RBS sent Ms M in 2018 for the policies sold with loan accounts  ending 303 and 787, and the 
letters it sent Mr M in 2018 for the policies sold with loan accounts ending 351, 902 and 031.)
If RBS had first used the PPI compensation to repay in full the monies  owed and left unpaid,  there 
would have been £7,898.41 left. If RBS had then paid Mr M half, hed have received  £3,949.21. As it 
is, hes received  £5,110.31. Put simply,  whether by mistake or on purpose, RBS has paid Mr M more  
than I would  have told it to pay him. I appreciate that Ms M was paid even more.  But thats not the 
point. I suspect Mr M will disagree, but I dont  think  fair compensation is, in this case, the same as 
equal compensation. And I dont think RBS needs to pay him any more money.
Finally, RBS offered  Mr M an extra £75 because of the way it has handled his complaint.  Mr M 
accepted this offer. So I dont need to consider or comment  on this point further.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid Mr M fair 
compensation.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 21 March 2020 change my mind, I wont tell it to pay 
more.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8542870