K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 6 instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr F between December 
2016 and October  2018. Details of the 6 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Instalments Date repaid
1 02/12/2016 350 12 17/11/2017
2 12/03/2017 1000 12 16/03/2017
3 05/10/2017 1000 12 14/02/2018
4 16/01/2018 300 12 14/02/2018
5 05/04/2018 2000 12 20/09/2018
6 05/10/2018 1000 12 16/11/2018
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Fs complaint in part and thought loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have 
been given. Satsuma didnt respond. So as the parties still do not agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN88737212I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F applied  for his first and second  loan with Satsuma  between December 2016 and March 
2017. Satsuma  carried out credit  checks and asked Mr F for information about his income  
and expenditure.  The repayment  amounts  for these two loans seemed affordable based on 
what Mr F had declared. So because it was so early on in the lending relationship, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount of information  
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  the first two 
loans.
There was a gap of around  6 months before Mr F asked Satsuma for another  loan. When  
Mr F did approach Satsuma again  in October 2017, it did a number of checks. It asked him 
for details  of his income and his normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference 
agencies about  other credit repayments that Mr F would need to make over the coming 
months. And it then used  this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr F 
had left over each month. Satsuma also used the credit  reference agency checks to gather 
some more information about Mr Fs financial situation at the time he asked for loans 3 and 
4. So again I agree with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there was nothing to 
indicate Satsuma  needed to do more  when it approved loans 3 and 4.
By loan 5 the amount  Mr F had asked for though  had doubled from his earlier loans. And as 
well as increasing the amount he was borrowing significantly, this was also the third loan 
taken out by him in 6 months.
So I think Satsuma couldve realised at this point that Mr F may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Satsuma shouldve at this stage become concerned  about  whether it knew  enough 
about Mr Fs true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Mr Fs financial situation  before 
approving loan five. And I think that Satsuma  needed to verify the information it found out 
where possible. This is to make sure Mr F was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably. I dont  think Satsuma did this. So I need  to think  about what it wouldve seen if it 
had carried out proportionate checks. 
Ref: DRN88737213Mr F has provided  some information about his financial  circumstances which includes some 
bank statements and a recent credit  report. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  Satsuma 
wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it wouldve  found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Mr F was having problems managing his money. Satsuma wouldve found 
out that Mr F was paying a significant amount  to other creditors. And hed also been 
repaying a significant amount to short term lenders at the time he applied for loan five. 
I think that Satsuma wouldve found  out this information if it had made  proportionate  checks.  
And I think it wouldve seen Mr F wouldnt have been able repay  loan five in a sustainable 
way. So I think that Satsuma shouldnt have given  loans to Mr F at this point and for any 
loans after this point  too. So I dont think Satsuma  should  have  given Mr F loans 5 and 6 and 
I think he lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Fs complaint.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and Satsuma needs to now put things  
right. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Fs credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  Satsuma must give 
Mr F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Fs complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should  pay Mr F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873721