K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a Marks and Spencer  Personal Reserve account in 1997.  Mrs L says Allianz 
Insurance Plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 1997 Mrs L took out PPI at the same time as applying for the credit facility. Mrs L says she 
cant remember how things happened. Allianz  records show  this was a postal sale.  
The policy provided  protection for Mrs Ls account payments in the event she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out a benefit of 15% 
of the outstanding account balance each month and it would do so until Mrs L returned to 
work or the balance was paid off  whichever happened first. Its basic cost was 66 pence for 
every £100  Mrs L owed on the account.
At the time of the sale Mrs L was employed  and she said she wasnt  entitled  to any 
enhanced sick pay. She said she had no other means she couldve used to make  her 
repayments and she was in good  health at the time.
Allianz records show the PPI ended in 1999.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mrs L chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs L, through her representative, disagrees the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mrs L have a choice about PPI? 
I think Allianz made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  now remember this.
Allianz has provided a copy  of Mrs Ls account application and here I can see she ticked  the 
required box to take out PPI as well as putting her name in the person to be insured 
section. The application  didnt say or imply she had to have it. So, if Mrs L didnt want PPI, 
she couldve  simply left this section  blank.
Ref: DRN83389562the information   
This was a sale by post, so because there was no opportunity for any interaction with a 
representative of Allianz,  Im satisfied this was not an advised sale. This means  Allianz didnt 
have to ensure  the policy was right for Mrs L. But it did have  to give her enough  clear  and 
timely information about it so she could make that decision for herself.
The credit application  gave a broad description  of the policy  that it would protect Mrs Ls 
payments in the event she couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or if she lost her job., 
But the evidence  doesnt tell me that Allianz did all that it should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done. So, I accept  its possible  the information  Allianz gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.
But as I found  above, she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover.  
And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesnt appear that it was inappropriate for 
her - for example she was eligible for the cover  and she wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover - so it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mrs L off taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think Mrs L has lost out as a result of having  PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8338956