K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to him alongside a mortgage in 2002. He has also complained  
that the insurer didnt cancel his policy when he instructed them to do so. 
Just to be clear at the outset, as this complaint has been set up against Nat West, Im only 
looking at whether it mis-sold PPI to Mr S. 
 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with that view. 
And so the matter  has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I know that Mr S feels very strongly  that PPI was mis-sold to him. But after considering  all of 
the evidence before me, I havent  upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Its agreed between the parties that PPI was sold to Mr S during a meeting. I cant know 
what was said at that meeting. So to help me decide whats  likely  to have happened,  Ive 
looked at what  Mr S told us about it. And Ive also considered the documentary evidence  
thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr S would have known the PPI was optional 
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it.  Mr S told us that when he took his PPI policy 
out, he applied  for his mortgage with one person.  And then he was taken into another room  
by someone else who sold him PPI. Mr S says the second person told him he had to have a 
policy. 
I dont at all doubt  that what Mr S told us is what he genuinely remembers about the way PPI 
was sold to him. But I can also see that this insurance was sold over 15 years ago and its 
difficult to remember precisely what happened such a long time ago. From the paperwork 
Ive seen, it looks as though Mr S discussed both his mortgage and his insurance 
requirements with the same person.  I say this because a fact find document  seems as 
though it was completed only by one adviser.  So on balance, although I accept Mr S 
recollection is genuinely held, I cant say PPI was sold in the way that he remembers.  
So with that in mind, I think that what was discussed with Mr S when he bought PPI is 
probably reflected  in the paperwork.  I can see that Nat West said they recommended PPI to 
him. But I dont think thats the same as saying  Mr S had to buy a PPI policy. I can see it also 
recommended financial  planning to Mr S, which he declined. On balance,  I think Mr S 
probably knew he could  turn Nat Wests recommendations down. But I also understand why 
he may not possibly recall  that after so long.  
As I said above, Nat West recommended PPI to Mr S. So it had to make  sure it was suitable 
for his needs. To help me decide  whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at what he told us 
Ref: DRN81810562about his circumstances at the time.  And Ive also considered the terms and conditions of 
the PPI. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the PPI policy, Mr S mortgage  repayments 
would have been covered  for up to 12 months  for each claim.  I can see that in his PPI 
questionnaire that Mr S said he didnt need PPI because  he would have had sick pay for up 
to 12 months. I can see that our adjudicator tried to clarify whether this was full pay, but Mr S 
didnt know. 
In any event, I think that the PPI policy would have paid out in addition  to the means Mr S 
would have already had in place. And he could have used his existing resources on his other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt  been a very stressful  time for him if he 
was out of work. The mortgage was secured on Mr S home and so the consequences if he 
didnt make those repayments  could have  been  significant. 
Mr S told us he was in good health  at the time he took this policy out. So I dont think hed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual  about Mr S circumstances  that would have stopped him from making 
a successful claim if he needed to. After  taking account of all the evidence, Im satisfied that 
the PPI was suitable for Mr S needs. 
Nat West also had to give Mr S enough information  about the PPI so he could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not 
misleading. Its possible that Nat West didnt tell Mr S everything  it should have done about 
the PPI. But I dont think more or better  information  about the policy  would have put Mr S off 
buying it. Ive set out above how I think the cover could have been helpful for him if he 
needed to make a claim. And although  I appreciate he doesnt now remember, I think he 
probably chose  to buy it at the time.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr S paid on his PPI  and whether Nat West 
treated him unfairly. 
Nat West has told us that the commission  for Mr S PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Nat West has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr S commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think Nat West  treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr S back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. I am sorry to disappoint Mr S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81810563
Ref: DRN8181056