K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under her 
buildings insurance  policy for smoke  damage.
background
In March 2017, some food was left on Mrs Ts hob and caught fire. The fire brigade was able 
to control the situation, but not before significant smoke damage had been  caused. The fire 
brigade told Mrs T that due to the nature of the fire, the smoke was protein rich and 
hazardous to health. She says they advised  her that nothing  should remain  in the flat and 
none of the contaminated  items should return.
Aviva was notified of the damage  shortly  after the event and instructed a third party, who Ill 
call B, to visit the property. Mrs T says that on Bs first visit, it advised  all ceilings, walls and 
floors would need to be washed and a chemical  ozone cleaner would be needed to 
decontaminate the property.
Some six weeks after that visit, B returned  to carry out the work. Mrs T says she saw a total 
of just over seven hours cleaning over two visits  and the ceiling, floors and walls werent 
washed. No fixed  units were moved  during  the clean.
Mrs T remained concerned about  smoke  residue  in her home and in May 2017 Aviva and B 
visited her again. They  carried out a Biosweep   a chemical clean that should  have  
removed any contaminants present. A week  later B returned and carried out swab tests  in 
the kitchen. The tests read negative for the presence of chlorides, which Aviva says means 
there was no further contamination.
Mrs T raised  particular concerns about  her window blinds  and the extractor hood. Aviva 
agreed that the blinds  in the property were contaminated and still carried  some  smoke 
residue. But it said these were the responsibility  of the contents  insurer, who refuted this and 
said the blinds came under buildings insurance. In the end neither insurer took responsibility, 
so it was left for Mrs T to remove the contaminated blinds.
Aviva said that Mrs Ts extractor fan and hood  were safe, with no evidence of contaminants. 
It felt there was no need to replace kitchen units or other parts  of the fitted  kitchen (with the 
exception of a boiler  seal,  which it agreed should  be replaced).
Mrs T, who had been in alternative  accommodation  since the fire, was still unsure that her 
property was wholly free of smoke residue. So she contacted a cleaning  company, who Ill 
call R. It inspected the property in June 2017  and determined there was still smoke residue 
on the majority of surfaces  within the property.  It recommended a thorough clean. Mrs T 
subsequently engaged  R to carry out this clean,  at a cost of £1,500. Mrs T had her home 
redecorated following  this clean, at a further  cost of £1,421.64.  She then moved back  in, with 
new furniture, around the end of August 2017.
While all this had been going on, Mrs Ts contents  insurer arranged to remove  all her 
possessions from the home and clean them before  sending them  back. But when  the 
contents arrived Mrs T wasnt  sure they were  clean. Another cleaning  company, who Ill call 
S, was asked to inspect  them.  While  S was at the property, Mrs T asked it to look at the 
extractor hood. S confirmed in its report of the visit that while  the extractor hood appeared 
clean, it emitted a strong odour  when turned on.
Ref: DRN89833922Separately, the air vent to Mrs Ts building has since been removed by another company 
and contamination  was also found in and around  the vent. Mrs T is therefore  concerned  that 
contaminants remain  in her property.  She would like a full clean carried out, including the air 
spaces behind the kitchen units and cooker. She would  also like the extractor hood replaced 
and the cost of engaging R reimbursed.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ts complaint. They thought that Aviva had done 
everything it should have done  in relation to cleaning the property  so they didnt 
recommend a further claim or a reimbursement  of costs. However, they did find Aviva could 
have done more to ensure the extractor  hood  was fit for use, so recommended  Aviva replace 
it in line with the policy terms and conditions. The investigator also recommended  Aviva pay 
Mrs T £200, in light of the trouble and upset the extractor hood issue  had caused her.
Mrs T didnt  accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. On 28 November 2018,  I issued  a provisional decision explaining why I thought 
Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.
Aviva said it had no further comments following my provisional decision. Mrs T replied with 
some queries, which Ive considered and addressed below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My findings havent changed since  my 
provisional decision, in which I said:
did Aviva have a responsibility to remove the blinds?
Ive looked at the terms of Mrs Ts buildings insurance policy. This says that interior 
decoration is considered  part of the building, while furnishings, fixtures and fittings are 
considered to be contents.
Ive thought carefully about the nature  of blinds. Although fixed,  they can generally be 
removed easily (and indeed, Mrs T says when  she did remove  them  it took about five 
minutes). They are usually portable, so Mrs T could have taken them with her had she 
moved to a new property.  Overall I dont think they can be considered part of the fabric of the 
building. So while blinds can form part of interior decoration, I think  in this case its more 
accurate to say they are furnishings or fittings.
So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say it was the responsibility of the contents insurer  
to remove the blinds. However, I can also see from Avivas records  that it acknowledged  a 
continuing odour  from the blinds in May 2017,  after a further ozone treatment. So I think  
Aviva was aware that the blinds may have been frustrating its attempts to clean the property. 
And I think it could have done more to work with Mrs T and her contents insurer  to resolve 
this issue.
did Aviva take adequate steps to clean the property following  the smoke damage?
Aviva accepts that the clean was not as extensive  as B first said it would be. It says this is 
because once work started, it became clear the damage wasnt  as bad as it first appeared. 
So the additional cleaning wasnt required.
Ref: DRN89833923Its not unusual  for initial estimates to prove inaccurate once further  investigation begins.  But 
I can understand why Mrs T was concerned, as shed  been  told extensive  work would be 
needed to fully clear  hazardous smoke residue. And looking at Bs report  to Aviva in May, 
after cleaning had been  carried out, I can see that it recommended  full redecoration of the 
property, using seal block paint in the kitchen  to prevent further recurrence of smoke  odour.
After this report, Aviva visited  Mrs Ts property again, with B, and chemical swabs were 
taken. B has provided a picture of these swabs and I can see that they were negative, 
suggesting no smoke  residue was present. However, there were only two swabs  taken. 
These were  both taken  in the kitchen, although  neither Aviva nor B has been able to confirm 
the specific test area.
The smoke  filled Mrs Ts property, to the extent  that the fire brigade  had to use additional 
equipment to extract it before they could  enter.  Given  this, and the nature of protein rich 
smoke, Id have expected more tests  to have been  carried out, over a greater area.  Without 
such tests, I can understand  why Mrs T lacked confidence in the cleaning service  provided 
by Aviva.
Mrs T then engaged R to retest the property and carry out a clean as necessary. Rs swabs 
suggested there were  still contaminants  present. Aviva has disputed  the findings  of Rs tests, 
alleging that it was simply normal household dirt and that those areas had already  been 
tested. But as Aviva cant confirm where  it did test  and its tests were  confined to the 
kitchen  I dont  think it can fairly  say the residue found by R wasnt related to the smoke.  
And the later findings of residue in the extractor  hood and building vents suggest there may 
have been some contaminants remaining in the flat.
So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mrs T to want extra reassurance  and to seek 
outside help when Aviva  told her it had done  all it could. I think Aviva could have done more  
to test how clean  the property  was  and if in fact there was still contamination, as seems to 
have been the case, Aviva could have  arranged for further cleaning.
was the extractor  hood fit to use?
Theres been a lot of correspondence around  the extractor hood. Initially B told Aviva  the 
extractor would need to be replaced. This opinion was repeated several  times. But it seems 
the extractor was then cleaned as part of the wider clean, and tested during one of the May 
2017 visits. This test showed the extractor  hood to be safe and so Aviva was no longer 
willing to replace it.
Again Mrs T was not persuaded the extractor hood  was safe,  as she felt there  was still an 
odour coming from it. So when S visited her property in February  2018, I think it was 
reasonable that she asked it to test the hood again. S confirmed there was a strong  odour 
from the hood and said there was no evidence a PAT test had been carried  out to confirm 
safety. So overall it doesnt  appear  the extractor is definitely free from contaminants.
is Mrs Ts property now free of smoke residue?
Mrs T has fitted  units in her kitchen which werent removed during any of the cleanings by B 
or R. There are spaces between the units and the wall which have therefore never been 
cleaned (though  R did try to reach  these spaces using a long pole). Smoke residue has also 
been found in the building  vents during separate works.
Ref: DRN89833924So I cant say Mrs Ts property is now free of smoke residue. I think further steps need to be 
taken to provide  peace of mind to Mrs T and fairly deal with her claim.
what should  Aviva  do now?
I think Aviva  should have carried out further tests to ensure Mrs Ts property was wholly free 
of contaminants before she moved back  in. Because it didnt  do this, Mrs T felt she couldnt 
move back  in without another clean from an external company. And I think its reasonable for 
Aviva to cover these costs  of £1,500. As the initial report from B recommended redecoration, 
and its not clear when  or why that changed, I think its also reasonable for Aviva to cover the 
costs of this (£1,421.64).
Aviva also agreed to pay for a new boiler  seal, though I understand it hasnt yet issued 
payment for this. Mrs T has provided an invoice  to show the cost of the seal was £112.80. 
Had Aviva  fully cleaned  and/or  tested the property  extensively when the claim was first 
made, I dont  think Mrs T would have incurred  the costs above.  So I think  Aviva should pay 
8% simple  interest on all three payments1, from the date Mrs T paid the invoices until the 
date Aviva makes payment to Mrs T.
Aviva should  also arrange  for a full test of Mrs Ts property, including the extractor  hood  and 
difficult to reach spaces such as behind the kitchen units. Should any test show  positive for 
contaminants, Aviva  should arrange  any necessary decontamination.
The investigator recommended  £200  compensation for the trouble and upset  caused  to 
Mrs T during the handling of this claim. I can see that the delays and mixed  messages have 
caused Mrs T some distress, as she hasnt had confidence that her home is safe to live in. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendation.
Following my provisional decision, Mrs T told me she agrees with my findings but has some 
concerns about  the prospect of B returning to clean  or decontaminate  her property. She 
feels that B should  have known its attempt at decontamination would be unsuccessful as a 
thorough clean hadnt been done  beforehand  and there were  still contaminated blinds  in 
place, which  would have  hindered the operation of the chemical clean. In Mrs Ts opinion, B 
didnt carry out its work as it promised and she doesnt feel confident that it would be 
thorough in any future cleaning/decontamination.
I have no reason to think B wouldnt carry out a professional job to high standards if engaged  
again by Aviva. But I understand  Mrs Ts feelings  and I think  that Aviva should, if possible, 
engage a third party to test Mrs Ts home  for contamination and to clean and decontaminate 
as necessary. If thats not possible, Id expect Aviva  to be sensitive to Mrs Ts concerns and 
take such steps as may be needed to provide  her with reassurance and peace  of mind.
Mrs Ts also told us that she is currently undergoing long term medical  treatment, which she 
finds very draining. She has periods of more intensive treatment and I would expect Aviva to 
be sympathetic to this and schedule any future  works accordingly.
1 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs T a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN89833925Finally, Mrs T said that she still doesnt understand why B didnt follow its own initial advice 
about the extent  of clean  needed. As I said above, its not unusual that a first assessment 
proves to be inaccurate  once further  investigation is done. I agree  that Aviva  could  have 
done more to ensure that Mrs Ts property was left free of contaminants, but I havent seen 
anything to make me think there was deliberate or malicious underperformance.  I think the 
outcome Ive outlined  above is a fair and reasonable answer  to Mrs Ts complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to settle the claim and pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8983392