K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way that Zurich  Insurance PLC has handled his home  insurance  
claim for a lost watch.
background
In April 2018 while on holiday abroad Mr S lost a Rolex watch. He reported  it to the local 
police and made a claim to Zurich. It asked for documents to verify  the claim.  Mr S sent it the 
original box, a receipt (in the name  of the former owner) and a letter signed by that owner. 
Zurich referred it to its claims investigation team to investigate  the matter  further.  It was 
concerned about  the circumstances of the loss and the documents  produced. It asked  Mr S 
to attend an interview  in person, or by video  link. Mr S explained that he was only able to 
attend such an interview after office  hours or at weekends. Zurich couldnt  agree to that so 
the parties reached an impasse. Zurich felt it couldnt process the claim further without Mr S 
attending an interview.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Zurich should arrange to meet  Mr S 
outside office hours or process  the claim with the documentation it had received. She felt 
that it should be able to process the claim without the interview. She proposed that it pay 
£100 compensation.
Zurich advised  that it needed to carry out the interview as it has concerns about the 
circumstances of the claim and the documents provided. In its experience  these matters are 
only able to be resolved by a personal  interview, which it reiterated could be done  by video 
link. It didnt believe that Mr S was unable to make time for the interview  it didnt set any 
time limits.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that if Zurich had concerns which  couldnt be 
resolved by reference to the documents, it was entitled to ask for a personal interview with 
Mr S. I couldnt see that over a long period Mr S should have had any difficulty  with this.
Mr S didn't  agree with my provisional findings.  Ill set out his comments and my responses  
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
In this case  Mr S has provided all the information he has, including receipts, box, guarantee 
etc. But Zurich is concerned about the circumstances of the loss and with the documents  
provided. In respect  of providing information Mr S has fully co-operated. But I would observe 
that he bought the watch  from a private seller and Zurich in my view acted reasonably in 
wanting consider  the issue further  by completing a personal interview.  Further I dont think 
its for me to say that Zurich should  be satisfied with the documents it has, and, therefore, 
that its request  for an interview in unreasonable, when it has concerns  that cant be resolved 
by mere reference to the documents. The watch cost over £6,000, so Zurich  would be 
reasonable in requiring a high degree of verification.
Ref: DRN87680252Mr S requested the interview to be outside office  hours  unfortunately Zurich is unable  to 
accommodate that request.  Its pointed out that its willing for this to be carried  out by video 
link. Under the terms of the policy  additional  condition 2  the policyholder is required to 
co-operate with Zurichs investigation:  ...You  must give us all the information  and help we 
may need. In an insurance claim that may well consist of the policyholder being able to 
make time to meet  with the insurer. And if thats  within office hours  Im afraid its up to Mr S 
to make the time  only an hour is required. I havent seen anything  about his personal 
circumstances to show that that would cause him any difficulty,  apart from having to arrange 
to take a bit of time off work.
On the question of the time spent,  Zurich did take several weeks  to verify Mr Ss documents  
through its jeweller. But I don't think that was out of the ordinary for such a claim.
Mr Ss comments are:
He didnt disagree that Zurich should ask all the questions  that it may have to fully satisfy 
itself with the circumstances of the loss, and he had no problem with this whatsoever
He is the customer, he pays his insurance  premium and finds  it hard to believe that 
Zurich do not have the people available to deal with the claim after 4pm during the week  
or at the weekend
He is unsure what queries it could possibly have  with the documents that have been 
submitted.
The comment regarding his purchase from a private seller  is irrelevant, he has the 
original receipt and a proof of purchase when he bought  the watch; it is not uncommon  to 
buy watches in this sort of circumstance.
It should not be up to him to make the time for the interview. It should be the 
responsibility of Zurich to provide  a service  which  is suitable for its customers.
He has previously asked Zurich what further  questions they have, in the hope  that some  
may be quickly addressed to progress the claim - they were  unable to give a response.
Regarding the validation  of the documents by the jeweller, he believes 5 weeks  is an 
excessive amount of time to check a box, paperwork and receipt.
I have considered Mr Ss comments. But I think it would set a dangerous precedent  if I were  
to say that Zurich  cant investigate  this matter in the way it sees fit, as long as it acted 
reasonably. And I believe it has in this case.  Whilst I understand that Mr S doesnt see the 
need for this and he has provided all the documents he has, nevertheless  I have to reiterate 
that its not for me to say that Zurich  should be satisfied. It is concerned with the 
circumstances (including the private  seller)  and believes  the right way to address  those  
concerns are by way of private interview, not by way of questions set out in an email.
Im sorry  that Mr S feels he cant take an hour off work during office hours even though  he 
has had nearly two years to do this. All I can say is if Zurich can only offer office hours  for 
this thats the way it works. In a lot of insurance claims most consumers find that they have 
to make time during working  hours  to reasonably  cooperate with their insurers enquiries or 
otherwise progress their claim. Mr S isnt being treated any differently.
Ref: DRN87680253I note Mr Ss comment about the verification.  I can only reiterate my comment  that its not 
out of the ordinary to take several weeks to do this.
Its really up to Mr S, if he wants to arrange  the interview hes free to do so. But I wont  
require Zurich to take any other action.
Im not persuaded to change my provisional  findings. Those  findings  are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8768025