K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy TSB Bank plc has recorded  information on his credit file about  a loan and 
credit card account being in default.
background
Mr A had a loan and credit card with TSB. In March 2016 he says he was having a difficult  
time in his personal  life which had a big impact  on his financial situation. He says he told 
TSB about  this and asked for a holiday on the accounts while  he sorted  things out. But TSB 
didnt wait, and it defaulted the accounts, reported this to the credit reference agencies  and 
passed his details to a debt collection agency.
Mr As loan account was recorded as being  in default in September 2016 and his credit  card 
account was recorded as being in default in November 2016.  Mr A cleared the balances  on 
both accounts  in 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  think TSB had done  anything wrong. Mr A disagreed, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that TSB hasnt done  anything wrong.
It might be reasonable  to default an account if the borrower breaks  the terms of the 
agreement  such as by missing repayments   and their lack of engagement thereafter  
suggests to the lender that the relationship has broken down. But wed also expect  a lender 
to treat a borrower fairly and, if theyre in financial difficulties, positively and sympathetically.
In this case, it isnt in dispute that Mr A fell behind with the repayments for both his loan and 
credit card in 2016. Mr A contacted TSB in March  2016 to let it know he was in contact with 
a debt charity. And there were subsequent conversations where he explained  he was in 
financial difficulties and was still in touch with the debt charity.  The last time Mr A spoke to 
TSB about  the accounts and his financial difficulties appears to have been in July 2016. The 
notes suggest  TSB told him it still hadnt  received any paperwork from the debt charity and 
Mr A said hed get in touch with them.
From what  I can see from TSBs records, it tried to contact  Mr A a number of times after this 
call in July 2016  but with no success.  And there  doesnt seem  to be any further contact from 
Mr A. In August 2016 TSB sent him a default notice for his loan and in October  2016  it sent 
him a default  notice  for his credit  card. TSB has provided copies of the templates used. 
These set out that Mr A had broken  the terms of his agreement and encouraged him to get 
in touch. The letter also warned what would happen if Mr A didnt contact them  or take 
remedial action about his arrears and encouraged  him to seek  help if he was in difficultly.  
And, as TSB heard nothing further  from Mr A the accounts were  defaulted  in September and 
November 2016  respectively.
There has been some dispute about what Mr A told TSB about his personal situation at the 
time. But I dont think that makes a difference  even if Mr A had told TSB everything that 
Ref: DRN80267612was going on in his life, it doesnt mean I would expect TSB to put his accounts on hold 
indefinitely, particularly when he had stopped  communicating with it. 
Mr A hadnt  been  making payments towards his accounts for some time and I think  its fair to 
say the relationship between him and TSB had broken  down. TSB gave him fair warning 
before defaulting  the accounts and, overall,  I think it was reasonable to default them  and 
report this to the credit reference agencies. 
Ive also taken in to account what Mr A has said about him being an immigrant  that moved to 
the UK for work. He says that this has influenced  his financial situation, and the way he has 
been treated by TSB and this service. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr A was treated 
any differently than any other individual that was having financial  problems,  and this has had 
no bearing on how this service has approached his complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8026761