K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Monzo  Bank  Ltd didnt do enough to help her when she was the victim 
of a scam  during which she sent money  to one of their customers. 
background
In February 2019  Mrs T was the victim  of a scam. Its accepted  that what happened  was a 
scam so Ill refer to the third party as the scammer throughout. Mrs T received an invoice 
from a company whod  recently fitted some  windows for her. But the companys email had 
been hacked and a scammer had provided their account details instead. As a result  of this 
on 20 February 2019 Mrs T sent a payment for £2,080  from her account with bank N to the 
account details  listed on the invoice. The scammers account  was with Monzo.
On 1 March 2019 the window company informed Mrs T they hadnt received  her payment 
and that their system  had been  hacked.  Mrs T immediately raised the issue with both N and 
the police. N contacted  Monzo the same day via email. Monzo didnt respond to the email.  
So on 7 March 2019, Mrs T contacted Monzo herself. When she hadnt received a response 
by 29 March 2019, Mrs T referred  the matter  to our service. She thinks Monzo could have  
done more to protect her, recover her funds and was unhappy they hadnt responded to Ns 
or her emails.  
In July 2019 Monzo issued their response to her complaint. In summary they said:
They had never received  Ns email;
They offered Mrs T £100  compensation for failing to respond to her;
They offered Mrs T £1,080. That being  the amount they would have been able to 
recover from the scammers account,  had they responded to her email on 7 March 
2019. 
Mrs T didnt  accept this and asked our service to investigate. One of our investigators  
thought her complaint should  be upheld.  He concluded Monzo hadnt done  all they should to 
secure Mrs Ts funds. He recommended that Monzo:
Refund the remaining part of the disputed transaction to the value of £1,000;
Add 8% simple interest from the date of the disputed transaction to the date of 
settlement;
Add 8% simple interest on the £1080.00 already refunded from the date of the 
disputed transaction  to the date of refund;  and
Pay Mrs T £300.00 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Monzo dont accept this and have asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. I got in 
touch with Monzo and explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I also 
shared that the company  that Mrs T intended  to pay for windows had been  very 
understanding and were  still waiting for their payment  pending  the resolution of this 
complaint. So in these circumstances, I didnt  feel it would be appropriate  to add interest  to 
the amounts I was intending to tell Monzo  to pay Mrs T. Now Ive done this I can go ahead 
with my decision. 
Ref: DRN88074652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My jurisdiction
Mrs Ts right to refer this complaint to our service comes about  following a change made by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  to our jurisdiction rules. Those rules can be found  in 
the DISP (Dispute  Resolution) section of the FCAs handbook. 
On 31 January 2019 my jurisdiction was extended to cover  complaints like Mrs Ts. The 
relevant rule (DISP 2.7.6 R(2B)) says:
To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:

(2B) the complainant is a person that has transferred funds as a result of an alleged  
authorised push payment fraud  and both:
(a) the respondent is (or was) involved in the transfer or the funds; and
(b) the complaint  is not a PSD complaint.
DISP 2.7.7G(2) provides  further guidance. It says DISP 2.7.6R(2B) includes any complaint 
that the respondent did not do enough to prevent, or respond to, an alleged authorised push 
payment fraud.
Im satisfied that Mrs Ts complaint falls into this category.  
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably  in Mrs Ts case?
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Among other  things, regulated firms receiving payments like Monzo  are required to conduct 
their business  with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 
comply with legal  and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing  of 
terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive  policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess and manage  money laundering risk  for example through  
customer due diligence  measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business  relationship  
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken  throughout the course of the 
relationship).       
And, more  generally,  given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good  industry practice at the time, I think firms  should reasonably have had 
measures in place  to detect suspicious transactions or activities  that might  indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October  
Ref: DRN880746532017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  
Code of Practice) 
And Im satisfied that this good practice  requirement  meant  not just looking  out for situations  
where a customer might  be the victim of fraud, but also situations  where  the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule. 
The evidence Monzo have shared shows that they were already closely monitoring their 
customers account because of concerns about its use and the possibility that there  might  be 
fraudulent activity, prior to Mrs Ts payment arriving in the account. When Mrs T made the 
transfer to the account, £1,000 of the £2,080 was then transferred out by faster  payment  
within minutes. Upon  completion  of this faster payment, Monzo  froze their customers  
account. 
I asked Monzo why, if the completion of that transaction resulted  in the account being frozen, 
they didnt take that action at the point they received  their customers instruction to make the 
transfer? 
The management and rules of the systems  Monzo  put in place to detect fraud  (and to meet  
other obligations such as those relating to money  laundering) are to a large extent business 
decisions they are entitled  to make.  
But in all the circumstances  of this case, I am satisfied that if Monzo were concerned enough  
to freeze  their customers account after the transaction and to make further enquiries, I think 
they should fairly and reasonably have been similarly concerned  upon  receipt  of the 
instruction from their customer and taken  action before the money left the account. 
Had Monzo acted at that point and held or stopped the transfer, or blocked  the account,  and 
had Monzo responded and taken action  when contacted by Mrs Ts bank  and Mrs T as again  
I am satisfied they should fairly  and reasonably  have  done. Then Mrs T wouldve been able 
to recover all her money. I say this because  when Monzo froze  their customers account, it 
remained frozen beyond  when N and Mrs T contacted them  so Im satisfied the funds 
would still have been available for recovery at that time.  As a result of this I think  Monzo  
should fairly and reasonably compensate Mrs T for the losses she has suffered.  
Monzo has already  returned £1,080 to Mrs T. In the circumstances I am satisfied Monzo 
should pay Mrs T £1,000  to compensate  her for the remaining £1,000 she lost. 
The window company (who were  the genuine intended  recipient of Mrs Ts payment) have 
kindly waited for their funds pending  the resolution  of this complaint. Because  of that I dont 
think Mrs T has lost out by not having the remaining £1,000 sooner  as she would have  
paid it to the window company if the scam  hadnt happened.  So in these  circumstances, I 
dont feel it would be appropriate to add interest  to the amount that Monzo must pay to 
Mrs T. 
Ultimately Mrs T was a victim of crime. But Ive thought carefully about the impact of 
Monzos actions, rather than the impact of the crime itself.  And Ive taken  into account that 
much of the distress and inconvenience Mrs T has experienced was the result of a cruel 
scammer. 
But I think Monzos customer  service  also caused  Mrs T some material  trouble and upset 
and compounded what was already a difficult time for her. She emailed on numerous 
Ref: DRN88074654occasions and didnt see any response. It was only after approaching our service  that Monzo 
responded to her complaint, around four months after shed first raised the issue.  So I agree 
with our investigator that £300 is a fair and appropriate amount to compensate  for the trouble 
and upset caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Monzo Bank  Ltd must:
Pay Mrs T the remaining £1,000 from the fraudulent transaction.  
Pay Mrs T £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8807465