K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about how Tesco Personal  Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank dealt  with 
an incorrect deposit into her account.
background
Miss P says she made a deposit into her account  of £180 but was given a deposit  slip by 
Tesco showing a deposit of £360. She says she made Tesco aware  of the problem but it 
could not sort the problem out as its systems had frozen. Miss P says she was told Tesco 
would contact her but didnt. She says she spoke  to Tesco some 13 days after the problem 
and was told the £180 would be removed from her account. Miss P then says Tesco  took a 
further £180 from her which made her account overdrawn and told her after giving the 
money back that if there wasnt a mistake it would deduct that money.
Miss P says there could have been significant  consequences if she hadnt have spotted  the 
mistake .And also says Tesco has falsified records by recording the date it removed the 
£180 on the same day as the deposit,  when that took place 13 days later. Miss P would  like 
more compensation  than she has been  given and has photographic proof that Tesco has 
fraudulently changed the date of the deduction of the £180.
Tesco accepts its made a mistake and has apologised to Miss P. Its paid her £50 
compensation and has thanked her for her honesty.
Miss P brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Tesco  had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator accepted that Miss P had raised  the issue  but thought  Tesco had 
apologised and paid a fair amount of compensation. The investigator didnt think we could 
consider compensation for what  may have happened if Miss P hadnt have noticed  the 
mistake. The investigator also thought Tesco was entitled to tell Miss P that the money 
would be deducted  if after investigation  it was found it hadnt made a mistake. And that 
Tesco had backdated the date of deduction to reflect what  should  have happened and so 
hadnt made a mistake.
Miss P doesnt accept  that view and remains unhappy with how Tesco treated her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss P will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  taken place.
There is no question here that Tesco made a number of mistakes in dealing  with this matter. 
I accept that Miss P fairly told Tesco that it had made a mistake by crediting her account with 
an extra  £180  and its regrettable that this couldnt have been sorted out straight  away. I also 
accept that Miss P followed matters up and would have been concerned and worried when 
Tesco deducted two amounts of £180  instead  of one. But Im satisfied that Tesco  has 
apologised for what  took place  and has thanked  Miss P for her honesty. And I think its paid 
a fair and reasonable amount of compensation which  fairly  reflects the level of its mistake 
and that Miss P didnt suffer any financial loss.
I appreciate Miss Ps concern to be told Tesco may deduct the £180 if it hadnt made a 
mistake. I accept that Miss P knew the mistake  wasnt hers but I dont think Tesco  made a 
Ref: DRN82091972mistake by advising Miss P that. I think that at that stage Tesco  wouldnt have known it had 
made a mistake and the warning was a generic or usual warning in these sorts of cases. I 
dont think by saying  that Tesco was prejudging the outcome of its investigation.
I also appreciate Miss Ps concern about  what could have happened if she hadnt noticed the 
second deduction. I accept Miss Ps concern in those circumstances but I have to consider 
what did take place.  And having done so I dont think Miss P did suffer any consequences  as 
a result.
Im satisfied that Tesco acted correctly  by backdating the date of the transaction correction  
and showing  it as it did. I think  that placed  Miss Ps account in the position it should have 
been in if it were not for the mistake. And I dont  think that means Tesco  acted in a 
fraudulent manner.
Overall I accept that Tesco made a mistake but Im satisfied its fairly  dealt with Miss Ps 
complaint and so I cant fairly order it to pay any further compensation as she would  like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8209197