K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Nationwide Building Society  will not refund any commission  it 
received from his mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (MPPI) premiums  for the policy  he 
took out in 1998.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Ws complaint about commission. Thats  
because Nationwide  had previously told Mr W that it didnt think his MPPI was mis-sold   so 
Mr W asked us to look at the commission he paid. 
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr W, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where MPPI  was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MPPI policy  more than 50% of the MPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr Ws mortgage was taken out in 1998  
and ended in 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr W paid for the MPPI he had 
with his mortgage.
Mr W has supplied  us some information  specifically the FCA consultation paper CP18-33. 
But as Ive explained above,  due to the date that Mr Ws mortgage ended, this doesnt  apply 
to his complaint.
And although hes also told us that he has had commission refunded  for credit  cards that 
were taken out prior to his mortgage, Im only looking at this complaint, so I cant  comment 
on any other complaints  Mr W may have made.
my final decision
Ref: DRN80773252I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8077325