K822xcomplaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain about Mattioli Woods Plcs charges for administering  their 
pension. Specifically, Mr B and Mrs M are disputing time-costed fees on Mattioli  Woods  
invoice dated  31 January  2018 for charges  incurred  between  1 June 2017 and 
31 January 2018.  Charges invoiced before this period were the subject  of a separate  
complaint. 
I should also point  out that  unless stated - all the invoiced amounts quoted in this decision  
are excluding Value Added  Tax (VAT).
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 July 2019.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision  so I dont  intend to repeat it in full here. In summary, I said I was minded to 
uphold this complaint in part. I thought Mattioli  Woods was entitled to charge time-costed 
fees for some work that fell outside the day to day administration of the SIPP  but not 
others. I provisionally concluded  the fair outcome was for Mattioli  Woods  to refund  the 
following fees:
£19.58 plus VAT invoiced  on 18 July 2017
£156 plus VAT invoiced on 27 July 2017  
£39.17 plus VAT invoiced  on 4 November 2017
I provisionally recommended Mattioli  Woods add interest to the amount due to Mr B and 
Mrs M at 8% simple per annum simple  from the date the invoice  was paid until the date of 
actual payment. In addition, I recommended  Mattioli  Woods should pay Mr B and Mrs M 
£250 compensation each  for the trouble and upset caused by its actions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mattioli Woods nor Mr B and Mrs M had any further points or comments  to make in 
response to my provisional  decision. Having reviewed this complaint afresh, I dont intend to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. 
putting things right
To put things right, Mattioli Woods should  refund the following fees:
£19.58 plus VAT invoiced  on 18 July 2017
£156 plus VAT invoiced on 27 July 2017  
£39.17 plus VAT invoiced  on 4 November 2017
Mattioli Woods  must add interest  to the amount  due to Mr B and Mrs M at 8% simple per 
annum simple from the date the invoice  was paid until the date of actual payment. If 
Mattioli Woods  considers that theyre  required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest, they should  tell Mr B and Mrs M how much theyve taken off 
and give them a certificate showing this if they request it, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN89311802In addition, Mattioli Woods should pay Mr B and Mrs M £250 compensation each for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its actions. Mattioli  Woods should do this within 28 days  of us 
telling it Mr B and Mrs M have accepted my final decision, once issued. If it pays later than 
this it should add simple  interest to the compensation  at a rate of 8% simple per annum, 
from the date of my final decision  to the date it makes payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint and require 
Mattioli Woods  PLC to do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019. 
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89311803provisional decision  22 July 2019
complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain  about Mattioli Woods Plcs charges for administering  their pension.  
Specifically, Mr B and Mrs M are disputing  time-costed fees on Mattioli Woods invoice  dated  31 
January 2018 for charges  incurred between 1 June  2017  and 31 January 2018. Charges  invoiced 
before this period  were  the subject of a separate complaint. 
I should  also point out that  unless stated - all the invoiced amounts quoted in this decision are 
excluding Value  Added Tax (VAT).
background
In February 2016, Mr B and Mrs Ms Self Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) with another  provider  
were wound  up. Mrs M agreed  to consolidate her SIPP, along with two more that she had with other 
providers, into a Mattioli  Woods  family  SIPP held jointly with Mr B. 
Mr B and Mrs M quickly became unhappy with the charges Mattioli Woods  applied to their SIPP and 
decided to transfer  it elsewhere. Their complaint about  charges incurred before 31 May 2017 was 
referred to our service as a separate  complaint. 
This complaint focuses on the time-costed fees applied  to the SIPP from 1 June 2017. Mr B and Mrs 
M felt they hadnt agreed to these time-costed  fees and were unhappy  Mattioli  Woods charged these 
without prior notification. And on 17 July 2017,  Mr B and Mrs M instructed Mattioli  Woods  to cease 
and desist from any time-costed work of any kind without their prior approval. 
On 15 August 2017, Mattioli Woods responded to Mr B and Mrs Ms email  of 17 July 2017. This email 
told Mr B and Mrs M that Mattioli Woods was removing its previous offer of capping  fees at £1,500 a 
year plus VAT because theyd decided  to transfer their SIPP elsewhere.
Instead, Mattioli Woods said it would carry out its work  on the transfer on a time-costed basis.  The 
invoice breakdown  shows  that Mattioli  Woods  charged £195.17 for correspondence between 27 
July 2017 and its email of 15 August 2017. This included  £19.58 for reviewing the email sent on 17 
July 2017 and a further £26.63 on 19 July 2017  for correspondence with the SIPPs platform provider.  
And on 24 July 2017, Mattioli Woods charged a further £85.38 for work on the transfer.
Mr B and Mrs M replied  to Mattioli Woods  on 17 August  2017, reiterating  their instruction of 17 July 
2017 that Mattioli Woods cease and desist from carrying  out any further activity  on a time-costed 
basis, including its transfer work as the charging  basis for this work had not yet been agreed.  Mr B 
and Mrs M copied in Mattioli Woods complaints department  to make it clear they would continue to 
pursue their formal complaint about its invoices for time-costed fees.
On 22 September 2017, Mattioli Woods informed Mr B and Mrs M that the trading  platform provider 
used in their SIPP was refusing  to transfer the existing  accounts  in-specie. Mattioli  Woods  explained 
new broker accounts would  need to be opened and the funds transferred, which can be a time 
consuming, complex and ultimately costly task.  Mattioli  Woods  said:
 
While the SIPP remains with MW, fees will continue to be accrued  for any work completed on the 
transfer as per our complaint  response and fee schedule. The charge  of £250 (plus  VAT) is a flat 
rate charge and any additional works  will be time costed. As outlined above,  we are not able to 
provide a time cost or estimate  at the present  time as it depends on how much work your new 
provider requires us to do. However, based on what they and [the trading platform] have already 
advised, the time is likely to be higher than average  due to the complexities of the transfer process 
[the trading platform] are requesting.
Ref: DRN89311804On 10 October 2017, Mrs M asked what services are covered in the standard transfer out fee of £250 
plus VAT. Mattioli  Woods replied saying:
The £250  transfer  fee covers any work surrounding the wind up of the SIPP once  all the 
assets have been transferred out  for instance, the closing of the SIPP bank accounts.
All the work Mattioli Woods carried out would be charged  on a time-costed basis. It didnt 
think the trading  platform provider  would allow an in-specie transfer,  so would  require a 
similar time taken to when the SIPP was set up.
Typical transfer-out costs are around £750  £1,000 plus VAT, with the additional  £250 plus 
VAT fee. But fees incurred depend  on how much time its administrator has to spend  liaising 
with the new SIPP provider and getting involved with the transfer of assets.
On 26 October 2017, Mr B and Mrs M said its standard transfer fee creates a reasonable  expectation 
that this is indeed  the cost of transferring  out, but now understood the process  involved time-costed 
work. Mattioli Woods then charged £39.17 on 4 November 2017:
Liaised with our complaints team in respect  of a transfer to ensure we have confirmation to 
proceed. Reviewed  documentation  received from [the new SIPP provider].
Mattioli Woods then asked Mr B and Mrs M to confirm whether they wanted Mattioli  Woods  to 
continue processing the transfer  to the new provider,  which they confirmed they did on 10 November 
2017.
Mattioli Woods completed its work  on the transfer in January 2018 and issued its final invoice for 
£3,361.85 plus VAT on 31 January 2018. The invoice included the £250 transfer fee, an annual  
scheme charge of £421.33 and £2,690.52 of time-costed fees, all excluding VAT. 
Mr B and Mrs M referred  their complaint  about the charges to our service. They said:
Mattioli Woods didnt  abide by the terms of its client agreement  and failed to provide 
estimates of its time-costed fees before work was carried out. They  were told on only two 
occasions that further time-costed  work was required.
They  asked Mattioli Woods previously  not to undertake  any time-costed work on their SIPP 
without prior authorisation.
The standard transfer  out fee of £250 plus VAT created a reasonable expectation  that is the 
total cost of transferring out.
They  should pay only what they expected  to for the transfer   £250 plus VAT transfer fee plus 
a maximum of £400 plus VAT of time-costed fees.
Mattioli Woods also sent us Mr B and Mrs Ms SIPP illustration dated  9 May 2016, which sets out the 
annual scheme charge  as £704.40 per year.
Mattioli Woods said it advised  that further work was needed  on a time-costed basis on a number of 
occasions. In this case, significant work was still required due to ongoing problems with the trading 
platform Mr B and Mrs M used as part of their SIPP. The trading platform had caused  similar issues 
for Mattioli Woods when it first set up their SIPP.  As a result, Mattioli  Woods  was unable to finalise the 
transfer. This increased the costs involved  in the transfer. Mattioli  Woods  provided a breakdown of its 
invoice and copies of all its correspondence to evidence the work undertaken.
Ref: DRN89311805my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to uphold the complaint part. Ill explain  my 
reasons.
Mr B and Mrs M have  set out what they think is fair to pay, £515 plus VAT, and want  the additional  
fees to be waived.  The £250 plus VAT transfer  fee is not in dispute. So Ive considered the other fees 
Mattioli Woods has charged.
annual scheme charge
The SIPP illustration prepared  on 9 May 2016  before Mr B and Mrs Ms SIPP was set up  sets out 
the annual scheme charge.  Im satisfied the its fair for Mattioli Woods  to apply the scheme  charge 
proportionally, as it has done, from 1 June 2017 until the SIPP was transferred elsewhere. So Ive not 
asked Mattioli Woods to refund this charge. 
time-costed fees
Mr B and Mrs M are disputing time-costed incurred  between 1 June 2017 and 31 January 2018. Its 
not in dispute that the client agreement Mr B and Mrs M refer to allowed  Mattioli Woods to charge  
fees on a time-costed  basis.  The question here is whether Mattioli Woods made  those  charges 
sufficiently clear. 
I think  Mr B and Mrs M gave  a clear instruction to cease time-costed work  on 17 July 2017. It doesnt 
appear that Mattioli  Woods  offered any substantive  response to this instruction until 15 August 2017  
and in the meantime, it had continued to invoice for time costed work  related to the management of 
the SIPP.  
I think  it was unreasonable for Mattioli Woods to invoice the following fees in response to Mr B and 
Mrs Ms email on 27 July 2017:
£19.58 plus VAT invoiced on 18 July 2017 for reviewing correspondence from our client
£156  plus VAT invoiced on 27 July 2017 for looking into the fee query and replied to [Mr Bs] 
emails
£39.17 plus VAT invoiced on 4 November  2017
The fees invoiced on 18 and 27 July 2017 were  the result of Mr B and Mrs Ms emails detailing  their 
dissatisfaction with the time-costed fees applied.  As the emails related  to the subject of their 
complaint, and Mattioli  Woods  response addressed  their concerns in part, I think these activities 
invoiced for related to Mr B and Mrs Ms complaint. Mattioli Woods should not invoice  its clients  for 
any work related to investigating or addressing their complaint. Similarly, its unclear what  liaison 
Mattioli Woods did with its complaints department on 4 November 2017   but the invoice entry 
suggests the work related to their complaint and so I dont  think  its reasonable for Mattioli Woods to 
invoice for this work.
Further, I dont think Mr B and Mrs M wouldve  instructed  Mattioli Woods to complete the work listed 
above had it been made aware of the costs involved  particularly the £156 invoiced  for work done to 
create individual invoices. So I dont think Mr B and Mrs M wouldve chosen to incur  these fees had 
Mattioli Woods provided estimates of the time-costed  fees in advance. I think  Mattioli  Woods  should 
refund the fees listed above, plus interest at 8% simple  from the time the invoices  were  paid until the 
date of settlement.   
Ref: DRN89311806I think  Mattioli Woods  email of 22 September 2017 was sufficiently clear  that time-costed fees would 
be charged for the transfer out process from this point onwards.  I think  the email  also indicated the 
charges involved in work transferring their accounts from the trading platform used could be 
significant and in-line with those charged when the SIPP was set up. Mattioli Woods explained these 
costs couldnt provide an estimate of these costs,  but said these were  likely  to be higher  than 
average due to the complexities of the transfer process the trading  platform requested and described 
the process as a a time consuming, complex  and ultimately costly task.
On 10 October 2017, Mattioli Woods provided more details of what  the average costs were, so I 
think this put Mr B and Mrs M on notice the costs were likely to exceed £750-1,000 plus VAT. This 
was in addition to the £250 plus VAT transfer fee. I think  Mr B and Mrs M acknowledged  the time-
costed fees werent estimable and could  be significant in their email of 26 October 2017. 
But even if I were  to accept  Mattioli Woods werent clear enough about  the time-costed fees involved 
in the transfer process, I still think the fees would have been incurred. Mr B and Mrs M wanted to 
transfer their SIPP elsewhere as they didnt  think their Mattioli Woods  SIPP  provided good value. And 
as they asked  for the transfer  to go ahead, Mattioli  Woods  needed  to carry  out work involving these  
time-costed fees.
Mattioli Woods  timesheet  listing and the evidence  its provided  show the majority of its time taken, 
and therefore its costs,  were due to the difficulties  encountered with the trading  platform and 
transferring Mr B and Mrs Ms accounts.  I didnt see anything  in the evidence provided that indicated  
the time-taken  was unreasonable or avoidable. Instead, I think Mattioli Woods was conscious  of its 
responsibility to minimise costs and facilitate the transfer as quickly as possible.
I understand why Mr B and Mrs M were so disappointed by their experience with Mattioli Woods, 
which led to their decision  to transfer their SIPP elsewhere. And whilst I think the majority of the work  
Mattioli Woods carried out after receiving this instruction was unavoidable,  I want  to be clear that I 
think the customer service  provided fell well short of what  Mr B and Mrs M were entitled to expect  
especially given the nature  of their complaint  was about poor communication  on Mattioli Woods part. 
I think  Mattioli Woods should pay Mr B and Mrs M £250 compensation each  to recognise  fairly the 
trouble and upset caused.
putting things  right
To put things right, I intend to ask Mattioli Woods to refund  the following  fees:
£19.58 plus VAT invoiced on 18 July 2017
£156  plus VAT invoiced on 27 July 2017 
£39.17 plus VAT invoiced on 4 November  2017
Mattioli Woods must  add interest to the amount due to Mr B and Mrs M at eight percent annum simple 
from the date the invoice was paid until the date of actual payment. If Mattioli Woods considers  that 
theyre required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  they should tell 
Mr B and Mrs M how much  theyve taken off and give them a certificate showing this if requested, so 
they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate. 
In addition, Mattioli Woods should pay Mr B and Mrs M £250 compensation each for the trouble  and 
upset caused by its actions.  Mattioli Woods should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr B and Mrs 
M has accepted my final decision,  once issued. If it pays  later than this it should add simple interest to 
the compensation at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of my final decision to the date it makes 
payment. 
Ref: DRN89311807my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this complaint and minded to require Mattioli 
Woods to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8931180