K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold them  a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1997.  Due to the time that has passed, its not clear how 
Mr and Mrs M applied for their mortgage and when the mortgage itself started. Although it 
seems reasonable  to assume that both things happened on or around the same time. Mr 
and Mrs M recall they took out PPI over the phone   but HSBCs records show this was a 
sale made during  a branch meeting.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £600 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around £35 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as an area manager. Mr M remembered he was in a 
different role and said he had 12 months  sick pay. But the paperwork from the time of the 
sale records Mr Ms occupation  as above and that he was entitled  to statutory sick pay only. 
Mr M has told us he had a couple of thousand pounds in savings. And in terms of his health  
he has said he broke his arm in the late 1950s. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed before April 2008.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on his 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN86806462The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  before April 2008. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN86806463The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN86806464Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
HSBC no longer has all of the paperwork  from the PPI and mortgage sales. And this isnt 
surprising  things  happened many years  ago and businesses dont have to keep records 
indefinitely. But it has provided  a copy of the advisers financial planning review  document, 
which summarises the discussion Mr and Mrs M had with the adviser  and the subsequent 
advice and recommendations they received at the time.
Looking at this, its clear to me that there  was a very detailed  discussion about Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances. And the advice they received was broad, covering not only mortgage 
protection, but other financial matters. The financial planning review document  set out why 
the adviser recommended Mr M take out PPI. And it also shows  that Mr and Mrs M made  
certain choices around their protection needs, which the adviser catered for  theres nothing  
here which says or implies that Mr and Mrs M had to take out PPI or any evidence they were 
placed under  undue pressure to take it out. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs M knew  the policy 
was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did HSBC provide  advice?
While Mr and Mrs M havent  said either way whether they were advised to take out PPI, 
HSBC says it did provide  advice during  this sale. And looking at what  happened when HSBC 
sold Mr and Mrs M the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice  the evidence  is very 
clear on this as I referred to above.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs M. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances as set out in the financial planning  review document. 
And although this was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs M had a need for 
the policy  by asking questions about  their wider  circumstances such as their sick pay 
entitlement and existing  means  I dont  think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I 
say this because  theres  not enough  evidence to show  that the adviser considered  Mr Ms 
health in particular and if he had any medical conditions, which might have made the policy  
unsuitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN86806465While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  Mr M would  not have received any 
enhanced sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits 
are likely to have  been limited and they didnt have much by way of savings they 
could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs M manage the 
consequences if Mr M was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M  
the financial planning review document records that their budget was considered as 
part of the overall  advice they were given.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions - Mr M has told 
us that he broke a bone in the late 1950s. But this appears to have been more  of a 
one-off injury with no lasting effects. So to all intents and purposes I think Mr M was 
in good health at the time of the sale. So I dont  think  the policy was unsuitable or 
that it was wrong for HSBC to have recommended it. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances. Im mindful too that the adviser  considered Mr and Mrs Ms longer-
term income protection needs  as part of the overall income protection advice they 
gave them.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policys intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
M was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. And in the financial  planning review document  suggests the nature of the 
product and the benefit amount was discussed  during the advice meeting.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN86806466Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr 
and Mrs M have suffered  loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if HSBC 
had explained  things properly, Mr and Mrs M would have acted differently, or whether they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Ref: DRN86806467Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
M was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs M were given about the benefit 
was clear including that it was limited to 12 months cover. But the information about  other  
aspects of the policy, such as the cost and the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, the available evidence  doesnt  show that HSBC told them  the exact 
premium at the point  Mr and Mrs M applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr 
and Mrs M would have been  told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with HSBC at the time or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought he had bought 
and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy,  or anything he received 
advice or treatment for during the 12 months before the start date and which  comes  
back within the first 12 months of the policy; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
Ref: DRN86806468I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, coupled  with the shortcomings  in the sale might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr M and Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  As the policyholder Mr M was 
eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, 
couldve proved  useful to Mr and Mrs M should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I 
also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr M wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  as I said above he didnt  have what  can reasonably be described  as 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think Mr 
and Mrs M had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr M needed to be prevented from working.  I dont think  this is 
likely to be any different to what Mr and Mrs M would have expected to make  a claim. 
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or sickness. In the circumstances  I consider it more  likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN86806469Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  the position Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as a result of the 
sale was the same position they would have been in had the breach or significant failings 
not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2021.
Ref: DRN868064610Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8680646