K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  Company Limited (DAS)  
has mishandled  their claim resulting in a loss of indemnity and unfair delays. 
For the sake of clarity when I refer to DAS, I am referring to both the underwriter  and any 
agent acting on its behalf. 
background 
Mr and Mrs M held a legal  expenses insurance policy  with DAS. In 2013  they contacted DAS 
to start a claim  linked to a neighbour dispute.  Mr and Mrs M have complained  that DAS has 
wasted the indemnity attached to their claim and caused unnecessary and costly delays in 
how they managed  it. 
The problems between  Mr and Mrs M and their neighbours are numerous  and complex and 
have resulted in Mr and Mrs M bringing  multiple  complaints to this service. Their  claim is still 
ongoing and as a result some of the issues that Mr and Mrs M had originally asked this 
service to consider  have  moved on or changed in nature. As such  I believe it would be 
helpful for me to set out what aspects of their original complaint this decision  will consider. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they have  two valid claims  with DAS, one from 2013 and a 
second from 2015. As they believe they are separate claims Mr and Mrs M also believe they 
are entitled  to two separate indemnity limits  (as per the policy  wording the indemnity limit set 
by DAS on legal expenses insurance claims is £50,000).  The issues  regarding  whether or 
not there are two individual  claims are long and protracted and are being addressed 
separately in another decision.  So, I will not comment on the matter  here. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also said that DAS caused unnecessary delays in how they handled 
their claim and that this resulted in additional  unfair costs  being subtracted from their 
indemnity limit. 
As previously agreed by both parties I will consider any delays  that may have happened  in 
relation to the 2013 claim but only between 18 August 2016 and 23 July 2019. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs M have said they believe they have been unfairly charged and additional 
costs added to their legal  bill that they should  not be held liable for. 
DAS accepted that some unnecessary delays had occurred on occasion. It offered £250 in 
compensation which Mr and Mrs M declined. DAS didnt accept that it had applied any unfair  
costs to the claim and asked that Mr and Mrs M provide evidence to support their allegations 
and highlight  which costs  they wanted to dispute. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint already. She found that there 
had been some delays caused  by DAS and recommended that it increase its offer of 
compensation from £250 to £400 in recognition  of this. She was unable to comment  on the 
issue regarding disputed  costs as the claim was still on going and it was unclear which 
specific costs Mr and Mrs M were  disputing. She recommended they wait until either  the 
claim had come to an end or the indemnity had been spent before bringing any further 
complaints relating to this concern. She explained  that a cost assessor would need to be 
hired and Mr and Mrs M would need  to detail each individual specific cost they wanted to 
dispute. 
Ref: DRN88110092DAS accepted the investigators findings and agreed  to the increased  settlement, however 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the investigators  findings and so the complaint has been 
sent to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained above the issue regarding whether or not Mr and Mrs M should be entitled to 
two separate indemnities, thus increasing their overall cost limit from £50,000 to £100,000,  is 
being considered in a separate decision and so I will not comment  on it here. 
In regard to whether or not DAS caused  undue or unfair delays  to Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
between 16 August 2016 and 23 July 2019;  I have  reviewed all of the information  provided 
by both Mr and Mrs M and DAS and agree with our investigator that there is evidence of 
some delays. These delays primarily consisted of DAS failing respond to emails  sent to it by 
Mr and Mrs M or their solicitors, as quickly as it could have. 
Mr and Mrs M have  understandably  expressed  deep frustration and upset  that the claim they 
started in 2013  is still ongoing. During the time that has passed since then the situation  with 
their neighbours has become increasingly volatile and they have on occasion feared for their 
safety and the safety of their family. 
While I understand that the claim has been  ongoing for a considerable length of time, Im 
unable to find that these more substantial  delays are the result of failings on the part of DAS.  
Mr and Mrs M have  changed solicitors on a number  of occasions since  the inception of the 
claim; there have been requests for opinions  from barristers, this service,  and other  external 
third parties, in relation to disagreements between Mr and Mrs M and DAS. All of this served 
to slow down the progression of the claim and resulted in time being spent elsewhere.  
Having reviewed everything in full, Im unable to say that DAS is responsible  for these  
additional, more  substantial, delays.  And because I dont think  its responsible it would be 
unreasonable for me to ask it to pay compensation for them.  Therefore, while I agree that 
DAS should pay £400 in recognition of the avoidable  delays set out by our investigator,  I 
wont be asking it to pay any more  in relation to this matter. 
The final element of this complaint is whether or not DAS has added unfair costs to 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim thus reducing the overall  value of their £50,000 indemnity limit. In 
order to be able to comment on this aspect of their complaint I would need to have received 
a detailed breakdown of each individual charge Mr and Mrs M disagree with. That hasnt 
been provided, although Mr and Mrs M have sent in some  information relating to the costs 
charged by their solicitors.  I note that DAS has confirmed  a cost assessor has been 
allocated to review  all of the charges associated with the claim. However, this is still ongoing 
and so I am unable to make a finding as it is still unclear which  costs  Mr and Mrs M are 
referring to. DAS would  also be entitled  to respond to any specific allegations  made by 
Mr and Mrs M regarding disputed  costs  before this service could comment. 
Therefore, for the reasons set out above  I am unable to find that DAS has caused  
substantial or costly delays to Mr and Mrs Ms claim.  However, I do agree with our 
Ref: DRN88110093investigator that some avoidable delays did occur between 16 August 2016 and 
23 July 2019.  For these reasons I direct DAS to pay Mr and Mrs M £400 in compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I am partially upholding Mr and Mrs Ms claim. To put things 
right DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £400 in recognition for the delays caused to their claim 
between 16 August 2016 and 23 July 2019
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 February  2021.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8811009