K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Express  Finance (Bromley) Limited, trading as Payday Express,  gave
him loans  he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
December 2018.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  Payday Express  hadnt  carried  out 
proportionate checks before loans three  to eight. I said that if it had done so, it was more 
likely than not that it wouldve seen that Mr D couldnt afford to repay loan eight in a 
sustainable way. So, I didnt think that Payday Express should  have given  Mr D loan eight. I 
set out what I thought  Payday Express should do to put matters right. I invited  both parties to 
let my have  any further comments and evidence. 
Mr D didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Payday Express  said it agreed with my 
provisional decision. It said the outstanding balance for loan eight hadnt  been sold to a third 
party. It agreed to write off interest  and charges  and reduce the capital outstanding on loan 
eight accordingly.  It said that it would  remove  the loan from Mr Ds credit file. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr D nor Payday Express has provided me with anything  further  on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, I dont  think Payday Express carried out proportionate checks before loans 
three to eight. If it had done so, it would have  seen that he couldnt  afford  to repay  loan eight. 
Its not necessary  to direct Payday Express to buy back loan eight from a third party.  Payday  
Express has agreed to remove loan eight from Mr Ds credit file. So, Im changing  what  I ask 
Payday Express to do to put matters right in those two respects. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require Express  Finance (Bromley) 
Limited, trading  as Payday  Express to;
1.write off interest and charges on loan eight;
2.use the amount  calculated at 1 above  to reduce the capital owing on loan eight  and;
3.remove negative information about  loan eight  from Mr Ds credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86917892complaint
Mr D complains that Express  Finance (Bromley) Limited, trading as Payday Express,  
gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr D took out the following loans with Payday Express:
Theres a dispute  about whether theres still an amount outstanding in relation to loan eight,
which Ill refer to in more  detail below.
Mr D says he couldnt afford to repay  the loans. He says that he had defaults  and county  
court judgements on his credit file, so Payday Express shouldnt have given him the 
loans. Mr D wants a refund of interest  and charges  and negative  information removed 
from his credit file.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Payday Express said that it shouldve asked for more  
information before loan five onwards and it asked Mr D for some  further information. As Mr 
D wasnt happy with Payday  Express  response,  he pursued his complaint with this service.
Our adjudicator thought that Payday Express had carried  out proportionate checks  
before loans one and two but not before loans three  to eight. He initially  said that, as Mr 
D hadnt given  us the information wed asked for, he couldnt say that the loans  were  
unaffordable.
Mr D provided  some  further information and the adjudicator  reconsidered the complaint. 
He said, based  on the limited information now available in relation to Mr Ds actual 
financial position at the time of the loans,  he thought  that proportionate checks  would 
have shown that Mr D couldnt afford to repay loan eight. He said that Payday Express  
should refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan eight, pay interest and remove  
any negative information about that loan from Mr Ds credit  file.
Payday Express said that Mr D hadnt  made any repayments in relation to loan eight, so it 
offered to waive interest and charges on that loan and reduce the balance Mr D owed. It 
also said it would remove any negative information  it reported to credit reference  agencies 
when Mr D repaid the remaining balance.
Our adjudicator said that Payday Express was entitled to apply the refund of interest and 
charges to reduce  the capital balance Mr D owed. Mr D says that he doesnt owe an 
outstanding balance to Payday Express,  so he doesnt agree with its approach. As there 
was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me.
Ref: DRN86917893my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr D, Payday Express had to check  each time that he could 
afford to make the repayments. The checks it did had to be proportionate. Whats  
proportionate depends on things like the size of the loan repayments  and the information  
Payday Express had about  Mr D. Theres no set list of the checks a lender should carry 
out.
At the outset, Payday Express asked Mr D about  his monthly income, which  it recorded as
£1,400. It also carried out a credit check. I think the checks it did were proportionate for 
loans one and two. These  were  relatively  small loans and this was the beginning of Mr 
Ds lending  relationship with Payday Express. I dont think  it needed to do any more at 
this stage.
Mr D took out loan three before hed repaid  loan two and loan four soon after hed repaid 
loan three.  A pattern  of borrowing was beginning to emerge that suggested that Mr D 
might become reliant on this type of loan. I think that before loans three and four, 
proportionate checks would have included asking Mr D not only about his income but also 
about his normal  monthly  living costs and regular financial  commitments. I cant  see that 
Payday Express did that.
By loan five, Mr Ds reliance on this sort of borrowing was established. I think from loan 
five onwards, proportionate  checks are likely to have  established  a much fuller picture of 
his financial position.  I think proportionate checks  here wouldve meant that Payday 
Express took steps to verify Mr Ds financial position.
So I dont  think  Payday Express carried out proportionate checks  before loans three to 
eight. Thats not the end of the matter, as I need to establish whether that made  any 
difference here. 
As Payday Express doesnt appear  to have carried out proportionate and sufficient checks,  
I cant say for sure what it wouldve found  out had it done so. Mr D says he cant  provide us 
with his bank statements. Hes indicated what his income and outgoings were at the 
relevant time. I dont think its reasonable to simply rely Mr Ds recollection about that 
without anything to support it. Hes recalling quite  detailed  information from several years 
ago.
Mr D has provided us with his credit report.  Of course, I accept that this isnt perfect, as 
different checks show different things. And just because  something shows  up in the 
information Mr D has now provided, it doesnt  mean that it wouldve shown up in any checks 
that Payday  Express mightve  carried out. But Mr Ds credit report  is the best indication  I 
have of what  his financial circumstances were  at the relevant time. In the absence  of 
anything else, I think its reasonable to rely on it.
I dont think that Mr Ds credit report shows that proportionate checks wouldve shown that 
he couldnt afford to repay  loans  three  to seven. The position is different in relation to loan 
eight. Thats because the amount Mr D borrowed for loan eight  was substantially more  
than hed borrowed before  he borrowed £490 and hed have to repay £632.
Ref: DRN86917894Its clear from Mr Ds credit report that at the time of loan eight he was in a debt
management plan with a utility provider  and repaid £349 to it in November 2012.  In addition, 
he already had a monthly payment of £236 in relation to hire purchase and arrears in 
relation to another short-term loan of £100.  Mr Ds income was recorded as £1,400.  If he 
repaid £632 for loan eight that would leave only £83 for his normal monthly living costs. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that, on balance, it more likely than not that proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that Mr D couldnt  afford to repay loan eight in a sustainable  way. 
I dont think that Payday  Express  should have given Mr D loan eight.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr D made any payments in relation to loan eight. In 
August 2017,  Payday Express told Mr D that it had sold the debt to a third party. To put 
matters right, Payday  Express  should  buy back the debt from the third party, write off any 
unpaid interest and charges on loan eight and reduce  the amount Mr D owns by that 
amount.
Payday Express says that it will remove any negative  information it reported to credit  
reference agencies  about loan eight  when Mr D repays the remaining balance he owes.  
I would urge both parties to agree an affordable repayment arrangement  in relation to 
the outstanding capital  Mr D owes.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold  this complaint and to require Express Finance (Bromley) Limited, 
trading as Payday Express to;
1. buy back loan eight from the third party;
2. write off interest and charges on loan eight and;
3. use the amount calculated at 2 above to reduce  the capital owing on loan eight.
Ref: DRN8691789