K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to her alongside a credit card in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  Nationwide  didnt make  it 
clear to Miss S that the PPI was optional. Nationwide disagreed  with that view.  It said it had 
provided a screenshot of its internet credit card application process. It believed Miss S would 
have been presented with a clear yes/no  option. Nationwide provided  us with a copy of its 
credit card insurance leaflet and suggested  that the leaflet would have been consistent with 
the screens that Miss S saw when she bought PPI. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Ive upheld this complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
In its response to our adjudicator, Nationwide said it cannot confirm how PPI was sold to 
Miss S. However, Miss S said shed bought the cover online. Nationwide  didnt  dispute  that. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Miss S is mistaken in her recollection.  
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide us with a copy  of any of the screens  that Miss S 
would have seen  when she applied for PPI. It has given us an undated sample screen  shot. 
Theres a typed note on the document saying  up to August 2005, but the start date isnt 
clear. I cant  say its more likely than not that this screen shot would have applied when 
Miss S took her credit  card out in 2003. 
Nationwide says that its PPI policies were  always optional and applicants always had the 
choice about whether  to add cover. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide  us with 
reasonable evidence to show  that PPI would have  been presented as optional  when Miss S 
applied for her credit card. 
With that in mind, I accept  what Miss S told us in her PPI questionnaire that it wasnt  made 
clear to her that she had a choice about  whether  to buy this cover. I uphold the complaint on 
that basis. 
For the avoidance of any doubt,  had I not upheld this complaint for the reasons set out 
above, it is likely that I would have upheld the complaint because  the costs  were not clearly 
explained to Miss S. 
If Id accepted that the screen shots provided by Nationwide were those Miss S would have 
seen, I dont think the cost of the PPI would  have been immediately clear to her. I cant  see 
that it would  have been clearly pointed out that shed have to pay interest  on her PPI 
Ref: DRN86807762premiums if she didnt  repay her balance  every month. Thats important as it affects the 
overall cost of her PPI premiums. So the question for me would  have then been whether  she 
would have acted  differently if Nationwide had given her all of the information it should have 
at the point of sale. 
The PPI that Miss S bought  could  have repaid 10% of her balance each month she was out 
of work up to a maximum of 12 months.  Miss S told us that she had six months full sick pay 
from her employer and six months half pay. She provided evidence that she had an income 
protection policy through work and the information  she sent indicates that the policy would 
have probably  paid out after 52 weeks of sickness. 
Miss S told us she had some savings that she could have  used  to repay  her credit card if 
she was out of work. She hasnt  been able to provide  us with evidence  of her savings from 
such a long time ago. And I wouldnt expect her to have retained those documents from over 
15 years  ago. Given the nature of Miss S work, it seems likely to me that her recollection 
about her savings is likely to be accurate. 
I can also see that Miss S only used  her card for a limited number of months and her 
account appears to have  been closed in less than a year.  It appears  to have been active  for 
a limited number of months.  I dont think Miss S intended to use this credit card in the long 
term. 
With that in mind, given  her existing resources and the likelihood  of her temporary use of the 
card, its probably unlikely  that shed have  thought  the PPI was good  value  for money  if 
shed known about the full cost. From what Ive seen, I dont think  shed have taken it out. 
In any event, I agree with our adjudicator and I dont think it was made  clear  to Miss S that 
the PPI was optional. Nationwide  will need  to take action to put that right. I should make 
clear that although  I have  upheld Miss S complaint, she appears to have paid very little 
towards her PPI premiums.  The redress Ive directed below will obviously reflect the 
premiums she paid.  
putting things right 
Nationwide should  put Miss S in the financial position she would be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A.Nationwide should find out how much Miss S would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Nationwide should  then refund the difference between what  Miss S owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss S made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Nationwide should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss S would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
Ref: DRN86807763refund. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Nationwide works out what Miss S would  have owed each month without PPI 
 Miss S paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Nationwide  should also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Miss S paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the 
point when Miss S wouldve owed  Nationwide something on her credit  card.  The interest  
rate should be 8% a year.
D.Nationwide should tell Miss S what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I have upheld this complaint.  I require Nationwide Building Society to comply  with the above 
putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8680776