K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Great  Lakes Insurance SE mis-sold a pet insurance policy to him in 
2015.
Where I refer to Great Lakes Insurance SE, this includes the agents  who acted on its behalf.
background
Mr L has had pet insurance for his pet dog for some years. When he came to renew the 
policy in May 2015 he downgraded from a Silver to a Bronze policy, which  offers a lower 
level of cover.
Between 2015 and 2018 Mr L made a number of claims on the policy for vets fees. In 2018 
he was told he couldnt make any more claims as he had reached the policy limit of £1,000.
Mr L complained to Great Lakes and then to this service. He said his policy schedule refers  
to a maximum benefit of £1,000 for veterinary fees for each injury or illness in each policy 
year. And he understood that to mean the limit was £1,000 each year - not a maximum of 
£1,000 in total that he was now being told.
Our investigator didnt  think the policy should  be upheld. He said that although Mr L had 
referred to information  given in phone calls, those calls were  made  later on, when  he was 
making claims on the policy, so they werent  relevant  to the renewal in 2015. And he thought 
the policy documents set out what the policy covered and made  it clear  the maximum the 
policy would pay out for each  condition. He understood Mr L made the assumption this was 
an annual limit because  he was paying  for the policy  annually  but none  of the information 
provided suggested this was the case.
The investigator also considered the information provided at a later renewal in 2017  and 
whether Mr L would have  acted  differently  if that information had been clearer but concluded 
that he wouldnt.
Mr L didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. He provided detailed  reasons for 
this. Ill summarise the key points  as follows:
he changed from a Silver to a Bronze policy without being made aware of the 
consequences of doing this  Great Lakes didnt explain the significant limits of the 
new policy compared to the old one;
the policy schedule  was misleading  - it listed various elements of cover,  all the others 
were  for the policy year only, and a customer would think  all the benefits were 
provided for the same period, namely  the policy year;
the lack of clear  information meant  he didnt  have what  he needed to make  an 
informed decision;
its a perfectly reasonable and logical conclusion that if he buys  a policy for one year 
the terms and conditions only apply for that year;
as he changed  his policy on the basis of unclear  and misleading information he 
should be able to reverse that decision and change back  to the Silver policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019. I said that in 2015 Great 
Lakes sold the policy through another business acting as its agent and so Great  Lakes was 
responsible for its actions.  But it wasnt responsible  for what happened at later renewals. 
Ref: DRN89753832This complaint only concerned whether there was a mis-sale in May 2015, when Mr L didnt 
continue with the same level of cover,  but took out a different policy  with less cover.
.
I said theres a wide range of pet insurance  available and its for the insurer  to decide what  
type of cover  they wish to provide, provided its clear whats  being offered - the information 
provided should be clear, fair and not misleading,  and enough to ensure  the customer can 
make an informed decision about what they are buying. Any significant  or unusual terms 
should be highlighted.
When Mr L renewed his policy in 2015  he was provided with the policy  documents,  which 
included a schedule  as well as the policy terms and conditions.  I looked at these documents  
carefully. The policy terms say theres cover  for each incident  (in other  words,  each accident, 
injury or illness) until the policy  limit is reached, and the policy  limit for Mr L was £1,000. The 
document includes a table  of benefits,  which again says the limit for vets fees for the 
Bronze cover is £1,000.
The schedule gives a summary of the policy and says theres a maximum benefit of £1,000  
for veterinary fees (from  inception date per illness and injury) .
Having reviewed these  documents, my view was that it was clear the customer can claim up 
to £1,000 in vets fees for each injury or illness. So once they have claimed  £1,000 for any 
injury or illness they cant make any further claims for that condition. I said there  was no 
mention in any of these  documents  of the £1,000 limit being per year,  or for any set period of 
time. The documents simply say there is cover for each  condition up to the limit of £1,000.  
Mr L said he made an assumption that any limits would apply for the period of the policy, but 
that isnt what the documents say.
Mr L had referred to some email  exchanges  he had with Great Lakes before making  his 
decision and I considered these. But he was asking  specific questions, in particular what the 
premiums would be and whether  any existing conditions  would  be covered, rather  than 
asking about the policy limit. So I didnt  think it would have affected his decision-making.
.
For these reasons, my provisional decision was that the information provided was clear and I 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold to Mr L.
developments 
Great Lakes has accepted my provisional  decision and has no further  comments  to add. 
Mr L doesnt agree and has provided some further comments, as follows:
The provisional decision states  "Mr L says he made an assumption that any limits 
would apply for the period of the policy but this isnt what  the documents  say" but this 
directly conflicts  with the paragraph before -"Theres no mention in any of these 
documents of the £1,000 limit being  per year, or indeed for any set time period." This 
shows the confusion  that arisen - the information wasnt clear.
Theres no recording of the original call in 2015. The evidence  of mis-information by 
the agents and the need for re-training shows a lack of knowledge  by staff.
He was never told that taking the Bronze  policy would  set a limit of £1,000  for the 
lifetime of his pet for each illness. Theres nothing in the documents  to suggest  his 
decision in 2015 would have an impact for the rest of his pets life. With inflation and 
the increase of vets fees in recent  years, this should  have  been  highlighted.
Ref: DRN89753833my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  
I dont agree with Mr L that the information provided  to him was confusing  or misleading. The 
policy documents were  clear that he had cover  up to £1,000 for each condition, from when 
the policy started.  I think this was clear that for any particular condition he could claim up to 
£1,000 for vets fees and once he had claimed that much he couldnt  claim any more.  There 
was no mention of a time limit. So it didnt matter over what  period he claimed  once he had 
reached £1,000  for that condition there  was no more  cover. I dont see there is any 
contradiction in the information.
Great Lakes agent accepted that some phone calls hadnt been handled well and this would 
have been frustrating for Mr L. but these calls related to specific  questions Mr L asked. They 
didnt alter the fact that the policy documents were  clear about  the limit of cover.  And the 
documents said he could claim up to £1,000  per condition  and no more.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr L but my decision  remains  that he was 
provided with clear information about  the cover being provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8975383