K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) declined her 
retrospective critical illness claim.
Background
Mrs T wanted protection for her mortgage repayments. So on the recommendation of a 
financial adviser, she took out a decreasing term assurance policy  with L&G.  The policy  
started on 16 June 2006 and provided critical illness cover  (CIC), terminal  illness  cover, 
and life cover.
Later in 2006  Mrs T was diagnosed with a type of breast cancer  ductal carcinoma in situ 
(DCIS)  and underwent  treatment.  In 2008 Mrs T was again diagnosed with DCIS  and 
underwent further  treatment. Mrs T made  a claim under the CIC part of her policy  but L&G 
declined her claim as it said the type of cancer shed had wasnt covered  under the policy.  
L&G says the policy lapsed in April 2013 because Mrs T stopped paying the premiums.
In 2018 Mrs T was diagnosed with metastatic  breast  cancer (MBC). She asked L&G to 
consider a retrospective claim  under  the CIC part of her lapsed policy,  as she thought the 
MBC was linked to her previous diagnosis of DCIS  that either the previous DCIS was a 
misdiagnosis and had in fact been MBC, or that the DCIS caused the later MBC. 
L&G considered her claim but declined it. It said a consultant histopathologist had reviewed 
Mrs Ts previous histology and confirmed the DCIS diagnosis shed received in both 2006 
and 2008 was correct, and that there was no evidence  of invasive malignancy at those 
times. It also said it was concerned Mrs T might have made a misrepresentation when she 
first applied for the policy, as she didnt tell it about a breast lump she had.
Mrs T thought this was unfair and that L&Gs agent had been rude and unhelpful.  So she 
complained to L&G, and then to our service. In L&Gs final response,  it said it had been 
correct to decline the claim because it thought the medical evidence showed  she didnt meet 
the policy criteria for a CIC claim at the time the policy  was in force. L&G said it wouldnt 
address the misrepresentation further  since it had declined her claim in any case,  and it 
apologised if Mrs T had thought its agent was rude and unhelpful.
Our investigator looked into things and said L&G should pay for a consultant clinical 
oncologist to review  Mrs Ts medical  history  and give their opinion  about whether the MBC 
was linked to, or caused by, the previous  DCIS. L&G disagreed as its Chief Medical Officer 
(CMO) said there was no evidence Mrs T had an invasive cancer whilst her policy  was in 
force. 
Our investigator put the CMOs comments to Mrs Ts treating consultant oncologist and 
asked their opinion  about the origins  of Mrs Ts MBC. The oncologist said it was probably 
caused by the earlier  DCIS, but couldnt say when this was likely to have happened.  And 
that breast  cancer  can recur many years  after the initial  diagnosis,  and it was common  for a 
patient to remain  symptom free for many years. 
After considering all the evidence,  our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He said 
the terms of her policy meant that a claim depended on the proof of contraction  and 
diagnosis of a critical illness. He said Mrs Ts MBC was diagnosed  after the policy  ended  in 
Ref: DRN868662622013, and her consultant couldnt  say when the MBC had first occurred. So he didnt think 
shed met the criteria for a claim under the policy.
Mrs T disagreed. She said that while nothing invasive had shown up in the earlier tests, 
there would have been hidden invasive cancer cells that went on to spread years later. 
Because Mrs T disagreed, this complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Mrs T but Ill explain my reasons.
But before I do, I want to say Im sorry to hear Mrs Ts health has worsened and I realise  this 
must be a very difficult time for her and her family.
To decide whether it was fair for L&G to decline Mrs Ts most recent claim, Ive firstly 
considered what  policy  criteria her CIC claim needed to meet in order to be accepted.  The 
policy says it covers  most malignant  types  of cancer  - Any malignant tumour  characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth and spread  of malignant  cells and invasion of tissue.  As MBC is 
malignant and invasive, Im satisfied  its covered  under Mrs Ts policy.  
Mrs Ts policy goes  on to say Entitlement  to the Guaranteed Sum Assured set out in the 
Individual Policy Details contained in the schedule also arises on proof of contraction and 
diagnosis of a Critical Illness,  namely  one of the following  illnesses or disabilities.  In other 
words, MBC needs to be not just present but also diagnosable. And it would need to have 
been diagnosable whilst the policy was in force. In thinking about this, Ive considered the 
medical opinions  Ive been provided with.
On 30 July 2018 Mrs Ts treating consultant oncologist said as a team we feel that the 
metastatic disease that [Mrs T] is currently suffering from is likely to be from her original 
DCIS as there could  not be any other explanation  for this. We know that in approximately 
2-5% cases of DCIS,  there  will be invasive disease that is not identifiable and we suspect 
that that is unfortunately the case in [Mrs Ts] situation.
At about this time a consultant histopathologist  reviewed the histology from Mrs Ts previous 
breast cancers in 2006 and 2008. On 7 August 2018 they concluded I have reviewed all of 
[Mrs Ts] previous histology cases The findings are those of an in-situ  ductal  carcinoma 
[DCIS]. No evidence of invasive malignancy  could be observed.
So the medical opinion at this stage was that the MBC was likely to be linked to the previous 
DCIS, but there had been no evidence  of invasive malignancy in 2006 and 2008.
In August  2019  Mrs Ts treating consultant  oncologist provided a further opinion. They said 
In answer to your question on whether  the balance of probability  that her current condition  is 
likely to be caused by her earlier DCIS the answer is yes I think it is more than likely as we 
have not been able to find a new breast cancer. I am not able to answer when this is likely to 
have happened, but we know that in all cases of metastatic breast cancer  the cells would 
have escaped at some point prior to surgery and then manifested themselves 
symptomatically many years down the line. 
Ref: DRN86866263The oncologist went on to say breast  cancer is notorious for recurring  many  years after 
initial diagnosis. It is not uncommon for breast  cancer to be found  in a distant organ over 
10 years  after original  diagnosis and as [Mrs T] in all likelihood had a small focus  of invasive 
disease at original diagnosis it makes it more likely  that she was symptom  free for almost  
10 years.
I accept the oncologists opinion that the previous DCIS is probably the cause of the later 
MBC  they say the cancerous cells would have escaped and then manifested  many years  
down the line. But they cant say when  this might have occurred. And based  on the evidence 
Ive seen, it seems it was in early  2018 that Mrs T developed the symptoms that led to her 
MBC diagnosis a few months later. This was about five years after her policy  lapsed,  so a 
very significant length of time.
Taking everything into account,  Ive not seen  enough evidence  to be able to say that Mrs Ts 
MBC would  have been diagnosable before her policy  ended  in 2013. So I dont think her CIC 
claim has met the policy criteria. For that reason Im satisfied L&G hasnt acted unfairly in 
declining her claim, so Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8686626