K821x#15complaint
Miss E was involved in a road traffic accident.  Shes unhappy with how U K Insurance 
Limited, trading  as Peugeot  Insurance (Peugeot), dealt  with her insurance claim.
background
Miss E was involved in a collision with a taxi that had braked suddenly in front of her. She 
was suspicious about the circumstances of the accident and asked  to be kept updated about 
the investigation into the claim. Peugeot agreed to this. But when she contacted Peugeot for 
an update, they told her theyd paid out personal  injury claims for the two female passengers  
in the taxi  there was only one female passenger in the taxi at the time of the accident.
Miss E has complained  that Peugeot didnt carry out a proper investigation into the claim,  
didnt keep her updated,  and settled  the claim too easily  and without her knowledge.  Shed 
like Peugeot to remove the costs  of the claim from her record  and for them  to carry out a 
new investigation about the taxi drivers  intention  to make a fraudulent claim.
Peugeot agreed  there was a lack of updates throughout the course of the claim, and they 
said that the decision  to make payment for one of the claimants  was incorrect. They also 
said that, because  this was classed as a fault claim, Miss Es premium had been increased  
but the number of claimants or the amount paid out wouldnt have any effect  on the increase  
 its the number of claims that affects the premium. They  sent Miss E a cheque  for £150 for 
the frustration and inconvenience their lack of communication caused.
Miss E was unhappy  with Peugeots response, and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Our adjudicator  found  that Peugeot hadnt 
acted reasonably. Because Peugeot had agreed  that the decision to pay out a personal 
injury claim against one of the passengers was incorrect, he felt that Peugeot  should  amend 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE)  to show the costs for the valid claim only. This 
was so Miss E wasnt penalised unfairly if she chooses to change her insurer  at some point 
in the future.
But he thought  Peugeot  had investigated the claim fairly, and he didnt think  they should  
reinvestigate the claim. So he felt the £150 Peugeot had already  paid to Miss E for the poor 
communication was reasonable in the circumstances, and didnt think  they should do 
anything more.
Miss E didnt agree with the adjudicator. She says she doesnt  feel that Peugeot  dealt with 
the claim appropriately, and she has no faith in them dealing with any further matters 
appropriately either.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81221722Ive seen Peugeots  case notes for the claim,  and these show  what  they did during their 
investigation. These notes  refer to the taxi as having two passengers  a male and a female. 
They also refer to witness evidence  which  confirmed  the taxi driver braked  suddenly  
because there was a car in front of him. The collision with Miss E caused the taxi to be 
pushed into this other car. The circumstances of the accident, and how the parties acted 
afterwards, led Peugeot to believe this was a genuine accident  and hadnt  been staged. So I 
agree with the adjudicator  that Peugeot dont need  to reinvestigate  the claim.
But Peugeots notes also show they were  suspicious of the second  female  passenger  their 
note for 21 April 2017 says clearly one of the solicitors have [sic] submitted a fraudulent 
claim, we just dont  know who. But Peugeot  paid out this personal injury claim,  and have 
since said they shouldnt  have done  so. So I also agree they should amend the CUE so it 
shows what shouldve been  paid out  it isnt fair that Miss E may be penalised  with future 
increased insurance premiums because  Peugeot  made a mistake.
Peugeot have also sent in an overview  of the claim. The overview confirms it was more likely 
than not that Miss E was told shed be given the opportunity to identify any claimants  before 
the claim was settled, and the claimants  were  asked for photo ID because of this. But Miss E 
wasnt given this opportunity before settlement was agreed.  Had Peugeot  done  this, the 
payment to the second claimant may have  avoided. The overview also confirms  that Miss E 
wasnt kept updated on the claim as she shouldve been.
This was a stressful situation for Miss E, and shes worried that she may have to go to court 
on multiple occasions about the claim. But this may have happened if Peugeot hadnt paid 
the claim as well  the claimants couldve challenged any decision not to pay a claim through 
the courts. So I cant say Peugeots actions  definitely caused  an otherwise avoidable court 
hearing. But Peugeots  actions  werent what they said theyd do, and this caused Miss E 
some stress and frustration that couldve been  avoided. So I agree they should compensate 
her for this, and I think the £150  theyve already paid is reasonable in the circumstances. So 
I wont be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Miss Es complaint.  UK Insurance  Limited must 
amend the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange  to remove the record of the costs for the 
claimant that was incorrectly  paid.  They  must also write to Miss E to tell her when this has 
been done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8122172