K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the service  that shes received from Santander UK plc in connection  
with debit cards that it sent her for her bank account.
background
Mrs M says that Santander  told her that it had sent her a debit card to replace the one that 
was expiring at the end of April 2019 but she reported  that it hadnt  arrived.  She says that 
she was told that the lost card would be blocked  and a new one issued but no e-mail was 
sent to her. She ordered a replacement card online  and used it to withdraw cash in April 
2019 but Santander blocked that card in May 2019. She says that this forced her to discuss  
a replacement card on the phone which damages  her voice. And she says that in May 2019 
she received the card that had been  sent to her in March 2019. She complained  to 
Santander and it credited  £50 to her account  to apologise for the inconvenience caused 
because it hadnt  informed her that the card issued as a result  of her online application had 
been blocked. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
replacement card was issued in March 2019 but an internal  administration  note was placed 
on the account in April 2019  which she believed had caused the confusion.  She couldnt 
explain why the card issued in March  2019  wasnt received by Mrs M until May 2019. She 
said that there was a misunderstanding with Santander about the incorrect dates but it 
issued the card that Mrs M had ordered  online and then cancelled  it because it had the same 
number as the card that had been sent to her in March 2019.  She was sorry to hear that 
Mrs Ms health problems meant  that it was difficult for her to speak on the phone but 
Santander needed to speak to her so that she could pass its security checks. She thought 
that Santander couldve communicated better and located the correct information earlier but 
that was reflected in the £50 compensation that it had paid to her. 
Mrs M has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that 
Santander insisted  that it had issued  her with a card in April 2019 and that it told her on the 
phone that it would issue a new card and that it then said that it had issued a card after that 
call  but it now admits that that never  happened. She says that Santander  has lied which 
has caused her a lot of distress and that, had her card been replaced when reported lost in 
April 2018 as it repeatedly claimed it had, she wouldnt have  had to make other phone calls. 
She says that the card wasnt  blocked  in April 2018  when she reported the card as lost so 
Santander failed  to protect  her account  properly  until May  which isnt a simple failure of 
communication. And she says that none of this came to light in the investigation of her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The card on Mrs Ms account was due to expire  in April 2019 so a replacement card was 
automatically produced  and sent to her in March 2019. Mrs M phoned  Santander in April 
2019 to change her phone  number  and she says that she mentioned  that her card was due 
to expire at the end of the month but that she hadnt received a replacement. Santander has 
said that the card was issued to her on a specified  date in April 2019 - which  it now accepts 
was incorrect. The card was issued in March 2019 and a note about it was added to the 
Ref: DRN80928912account in April 2019  and that has caused some  confusion  which  I consider has led to 
some of the issues about which  Mrs M has complained.
As she hadnt received a replacement card Mrs M ordered one online later in April 2019 
which she received  and was able to use. But Santander then realised  that Mrs M hadnt 
received the card that had been sent to her in March  2019 which had the same card number 
as the card that shed ordered  online.  So it blocked  both cards  and said that Mrs M needed 
to contact it about a third card being issued  to her. I sympathise with Mrs M for the issues  
with her voice from which she suffers  but Im not persuaded that it was unfair  or 
unreasonable for Santander to ask her to contact it to answer security questions  on her 
account so that a replacement card could be sent to her. 
The card that had been sent to Mrs M in March 2019 was received by her in May 2019. Im 
unable to say why it took so long for her to receive it. But that card had been cancelled by 
Santander.
When Mrs M complained to Santander  it credited  £50 to her account  to apologise for the 
inconvenience caused because it hadnt  informed her that the card issued as a result of her 
online application had been blocked.  Mrs M has received the £50 compensation. Santander 
accepts that it provided the wrong  issue date for the card and that it shouldve told her that it 
had blocked her card. That will have caused  some distress and inconvenience to Mrs M. But 
Im not persuaded that it has deliberately lied to her or that its actions justify  an award of 
compensation thats higher than the £50 that its already paid to her. 
I consider that the £50 compensation that Santander has paid to Mrs M is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to pay her any more compensation or to take any other  action in response to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8092891