K821x#15complaint
Ms Ls complaint is that Tilney Discretionary Portfolio Management Limited (Tilney) failed to 
provide the service she was entitled  to after her dedicated adviser left in July 2017, and was 
not replaced. She seeks a refund of the fees she paid for the service and compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to her.
background
Ms L has described circumstances in which she experienced a bereavement  prior to her 
advisers departure;  she was affected  significantly by that event; the adviser considered her 
to be a vulnerable  client;  after his departure  he was not replaced,  despite Tilneys promise  to 
do so; after his departure  and until she completed  the withdrawal of her funds in 2018 she 
was left without  any meaningful service from Tilney; she had to personally undertake 
administrative tasks for her investments, despite those tasks being  within  Tilneys  service.
In addition to a refund of fees,  Ms L argues that the value of the refund should  be duplicated 
as additional compensation to her, on the basis that she performed the work (in the value of 
those fees) that Tilney should have  performed from July 2017.
Tilney upheld the complaint and agreed  to the refund of its fees  it offered a full refund for 
all fees taken between  July 2017 and October  2018.  It also offered £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Ms L. One of our investigators  looked into the matter and endorsed Tilneys 
compensation package offer. 
Ms L agreed  with the refund of fees.  However,  she considered £250 insufficient 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to her, by Tilney,  in July 2017  and thereafter 
 and also with regards to her vulnerable  circumstances at the time.  She noted that it has 
taken her up to March 2019  to resolve her financial affairs with Tilney. The matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does not appear  to be in dispute  that the advice  and administration related service that 
features in Ms Ls complaint was within the service  Tilney was obliged  to provide to her. 
There is evidence to support this obligation.  There is also evidence that Tilney did not 
provide this service  after Ms Ls dedicated  adviser left in July 2017. For the sake of 
completeness  and whilst I acknowledge Tilneys concession of the complaint  I conclude  
that Ms L was deprived, as she has presented, of the service she was entitled to.
There also does not appear to be dispute  nor should there be  over Ms Ls entitlement  to 
a refund of the fees for the service she should  have  been given but did not receive, and for 
the period over which she was deprived of this service. The relevant period  appears to be 
from July 2017  to October 2018. I am satisfied  as Ms L appears to be  that Tilneys 
calculation of the refund in this respect is correct and I conclude  that she is entitled to the 
refund.
The matter  in dispute is the amount of compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  to   
Ms L. I understand  her strength of feeling about  this issue  and the level of distress she has 
Ref: DRN82798102described. In cases like hers, the primary basis for compensation is usually the refund of 
fees for a service that was not delivered.  It is the compensation that is directly relevant  to the 
crux of the complaint.  Trouble  and upset caused  to a complainant in such circumstances  is 
also important, but not usually  primarily so. Of additional importance is the need to avoid  
applying compensation for trouble and upset in a punitive context, when that should not be 
the case. Its purpose is to reflect, in monetary terms and within  our discretion, the trouble 
and upset that would have been  faced by the complainant.
In light of the above, the notion of duplicating  the total refund of fees as a basis  for additional 
compensation to Ms L would not be fair. It will have an arguably punitive  effect  which, I 
repeat, should  not be the case.
I consider that £250 is broadly consistent  with the amount of compensation for trouble and 
upset that this service  has awarded complainants in similar circumstances. I appreciate  the 
insensitivity that Ms L could have perceived in terms of her experience  with Tilney during 
exceptional circumstances  in her personal  life at the time. However, I am not persuaded that 
I have seen enough  in the context of comparable  complaints in which trouble and upset 
awards have been made  to warrant an increase to the £250 amount.
what must  Tilney do?
To compensate Ms L fairly, Tilney must:
Pay her a refund of the fees she incurred for its service between July 2017 and 
October 2018.
Pay her £250  for the trouble and upset caused to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Ls complaint and I order Tilney Discretionary 
Portfolio Management  Limited to pay her compensation as detailed above.  Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my 
decision before  19 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8279810