K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Capital One (Europe) plc put things  right following his 
complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance.
background
Mr H bought the PPI to protect a Capital  One credit  card. Mr H thinks  the policy was mis-
sold.
Capital One investigated the complaint. It agreed  to put Mr H in the position  hed be in if he 
hadnt bought the PPI. It worked  this out to be £3,792.89.
Mr H thought he should get more.  In particular, he thinks  he should get simple interest to 
compensate him for the time hes been  out of pocket.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 April 2019.
I said Id considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Capital One had agreed the policy was 
mis-sold, Id looked at whether  what  it had offered to put things right was fair.
Capital One hadnt included simple  interest  in the refund because it sold Mr Hs credit card 
debt to a third party. When the debt was sold, Mr H had an outstanding balance of 
£4,815.44. This meant that all the cost of the policy was included in the amount Mr H didnt 
repay when  the account closed.
But Mr H had now sent us a letter showing he settled the account in full. On 8 September  
2014, the third party  wrote  to Mr H to confirm that it had received a final payment in 
settlement of his account, that the account was satisfied and had been repaid in full. This 
meant Mr H had repaid  the extra he borrowed because  of the PPI  and as he was out of 
pocket, I thought Capital One should  pay simple interest to compensate him for this.
My provisional decision said I was minded to tell Capital One to recalculate its offer of 
compensation to include  simple  interest  on the total PPI costs. I said that unless Capital One 
had more accurate  information about when and how much  Mr H paid towards the 
outstanding debt, it should  assume Mr H repaid the debt in full on the day it sold the debt. 
This makes sure that Mr H doesnt  lose out.
Mr H agreed with my provisional  findings.  Capital One replied to say they had nothing  further 
to add and would wait for my final decision. So Ive looked at Mr Hs complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has agreed  with my provisional findings. Capital One says it has nothing further to add. 
So I reach the same findings for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN85896052putting things right
Capital One has already  offered to refund the PPI premiums, charges and associated  
interest.
As Mr H repaid the debt that was sold to the third party, Capital One should also pay him 
simple interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket. The rate of interest 
is 8% a year. To make  sure Mr H doesnt  lose out, Capital  One should  assume  Mr H repaid 
the debt in full on 1 October 2009.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Capital  One to take off tax from this interest.  Capital One must  
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc should put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8589605