K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank  UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) rejected two payments
he made which meant he was charged  interest.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 April 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89270672Copy Provisional  Decision  dated  30 April 2019
complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) rejected two payments  he 
made which meant he was charged interest.
background
On 26 September 2018  Mr M made three payments to his Barclaycard. He made two payments  of 
£4,999 from one bank and one payment of £4,900 from another.  Barclaycard needs  the credit card 
number to be used as the payment reference and says it was missing when the two £4,999 
payments were received.
As a result,  the payments  were returned to Mr Ms bank.  Around four months later Mr M 
noticed the issue. He checked with his bank and was told the reference numbers were included 
with the payment instruction to Barclaycard. Mr Ms bank statement shows his credit card 
number as a reference next to the transactions.
Mr M complained but Barclaycard said his payments  didnt have  the reference  number required so 
had been automatically returned by its systems. Mr M went on to refer his complaint to our service 
and an adjudicator looked  at what had happened.  They  spoke with Mr Ms bank  which confirmed no 
rejection code had been supplied  when his payments were returned.
The adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld and asked Barclaycard to refund the 
additional interest  Mr M paid as a result of his payments being returned and pay £100 for the service 
provided but it didnt agree. Barclaycard  responded and made the following points:
-Mr Ms payments were automatically rejected  by the BACS system
-Barclaycard  supplied  systems evidence to show the payments did not have a reference 
number when they were received from the paying bank
-Whilst the credit card reference showed on Mr Ms bank statement no evidence had been  
provided to show whether it was included  with the payment instruction
-Mr M had used the same bank to make  a successful payment previously  when it contained a 
correct reference
-Mr Ms bank account  wouldve had a larger  than expected  balance
-Barclaycard  sent Mr M regular statements which  showed the status and balance of his 
account
-Interest was correctly  charged in line with the account terms
-No error  code is given when payments  of this nature is returned to the paying bank
As Barclaycard didnt accept  the adjudicators view the complaints  been passed  to me to make 
a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I can understand  why Mr M is upset about  
whats happened as hes had to pay interest after the payments were returned. My role here is to 
look at whether  Barclaycard made a mistake when it returned the payments it received. Whilst I 
note everything Mr M has said and provided, I think Barclaycard has sent in persuasive  evidence 
to show how and why the payments were returned.
Ref: DRN89270673For me, the key piece of evidence is the BACS system information  Barclaycard sent us. It shows Mr 
Ms payments being received on 26 September 2018 but theres no reference included.  I know Mr M 
says he gave  the reference to his bank  and has provided a statement  to show it was correctly 
recorded. But the BACS  system shows that when Mr Ms payment was received by Barclaycard  no 
reference was included. The system shows a rejection  code for the payment reflecting  the lack of a 
payment reference.
The adjudicator spoke to Mr Ms bank and it confirmed  no error code was included  with the 
returned payment. But Barclaycards explained that returned BACS payments  dont report  the 
rejection code to the paying bank, in the way a returned debit card payment might.  Im satisfied no 
error code would have been sent to Mr Ms bank for this type of returned payment.
Barclaycards also provided evidence to show it previously received a successful  payment from Mr 
Ms bank. So Im satisfied if the payment is received  with all the information  it can be paid to the 
credit card. But here, the systems evidence  Ive seen shows  the payment  instruction received by 
Barclaycard didnt contain the correct reference so had to be
returned.
Barclaycard sent Mr M regular statements showing  the balance of his account.  And the returned 
payments meant his current account balance was higher.  Ive seen Mr Ms current account 
statements and understand that the returned  funds  may not have been immediately obvious. But I 
think the additional £9,998 showing  on his credit card statements wouldve  been clear. I think  
Barclaycard couldve reasonably expected Mr M to get in contact about  the missing payments  after 
they were returned to let it know something had gone  wrong. From  what  Ive seen Im satisfied 
Barclaycard sent Mr M clear information he could use to monitor his credit card account.
Whilst Barclaycard  didnt  accept it had made an error  it did offer to waive  a months  interest for 
January 2019 as a gesture of goodwill.  As I havent found  any evidence that Barclaycard  was wrong 
when it sent the payments  back I think the offer is fair in all the circumstances and I dont  intend to 
direct it to take any further action.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Mr M and Barclays  Bank UK PLC have until 30 May 2019 to send me anything  further theyd like me 
to consider before I make my final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8927067