K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  Mr Ws representative  disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise  any new or additional points but repeated  the 
same complaint points  and arguments  theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided AMEX should  have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that AMEXs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think AMEX  made it clear that Mr W didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because to get the cover Mr W had tick a box for it on the 
application AMEX  has been able to provide.  I can see that the box has been ticked and 
Mr W signed the form which suggests his agreement to the forms contents. Had Mr W 
not wanted the cover he could have left the box unticked.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W - so it didnt have to check  that the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr W enough clear and timely information  
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN83410942Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W  for example he wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover   he was employed and 
had no pre-existing medical conditions. Mr W told us he had no sick pay at work  and had 
no other means he could  rely on to make  his repayments in the event of long-term  ill 
health, or if he lost his job, such that he would have had to rely on whatever help his wife 
may have been in a position  to offer him. And it wasnt  too dissimilar  to what  he 
reasonably thought  he was buying  from the information he was given. There  were also 
no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems.  It also looks like it 
was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr W would have declined  the cover  had AMEX 
done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have  still taken out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AMEX should have  disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular  case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided AMEX  should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that AMEXs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness  caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Ref: DRN83410943AMEX didnt tell Mr W about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin 1 and the conclusion  in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
AMEX and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because  
AMEX didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share  in this case  
I dont think AMEX acted  fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr W because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Ws representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary,  they have  said Mr W should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: AMEX failed to tell Mr W about the high commission  and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr W wouldnt have taken  out the policy  
had they known about the level of commission and he should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN83410944and that the impact of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr W in order  to remedy the unfairness caused by AMEX not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before  he purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Ws representative  suggests,  driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for AMEXs  failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for AMEX to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr W paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr W 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if AMEX had done  
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So, I consider that AMEXs offer of payment of an amount equivalent  to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
If AMEX has already paid Mr W compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should  do 
anything further.  
Ref: DRN83410945my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ws complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
American Express Services Europe Limited  should pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) if it hasnt already done  so. If American  Express Services  Europe  
Limited has already  paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that American  
Express Services Europe Limited should  do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8341094