K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSO) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ks credit  card account when he applied for the card online. The card and PPI were  sold 
by a different  company  but CSO has taken responsibility for the sale,  so Ill refer to it 
throughout this decision.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint because:
 I think CSO made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember  this. The process  he 
followed online would have asked him to say if he wanted PPI or not, and CSOs 
records show he said he wanted it.
 CSO  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. 
 Its possible the information CSO gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr K chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy  
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr K would 
have made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8005083