K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Trusted Cash Limited  (trading as Trusted  Quid)  was irresponsible  to 
lend to him. Mr A wants a refund of interest  and charges applied  to the loans. Mr A wants  
Trusted Quid to remove  the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr A took out three running credit loans with Trusted  Quid  between June 2017  and May 
2018. 
Mr A says that with better checks Trusted Quid wouldve seen that he couldnt afford to take 
on new debt as he owed  money to a number of lenders.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr As complaint be upheld in part. He thought  it was 
reasonable of Trusted Quid to agree loan one and the further advance  based on checking  
Mr As monthly income and expenditure. The adjudicator didnt think  Trusted  Quid carried 
out adequate checks before agreeing loans two and three. By these loans, the adjudicator  
thought that Trusted Quid shouldve carried out a comprehensive check  of Mr As finances.
The adjudicator thought  that if Trusted Quid  had carried out better checks it wouldve seen 
that Mr A couldnt afford to repay loans two and three in a sustainable way. 
The adjudicator asked Trusted Quid to refund interest and charges and pay interest  on the 
refund for loans  two and three. He also recommended that Trusted Quid  remove any 
negative information  about the affected loans from Mr As credit file.
Trusted Quid didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint has come 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Trusted Quid needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Loan one (including further advance)
It was early on in Mr As borrowing relationship with Trusted Quid  so there wasnt any history 
to consider. 
Mr A declared his net monthly income  to be more than £2,000.  I think  adequate checks 
shouldve included Trusted Quid asking Mr A about his living costs and financial 
Ref: DRN87867332commitments to make sure he had enough  money left to repay loan one and the further 
advance in a sustainable way.
Trusted Quid has given  us evidence that it asked Mr A for this information.  He declared 
monthly outgoings of £1,163 on both applications.  Based on the information Trusted Quid  
held it looked  as though  Mr A could afford the repayments on loan one and the further 
advance. 
I also cant see anything in Trusted Quids credit search that shouldve  prompted it to carry 
out additional checks at this point.  It follows that I dont consider it was unreasonable of 
Trusted Quid to agree  loan one and the further advance.
loans two and three
Mr A had taken out a further advance on the same day that he repaid loan one. Mr A then 
applied for loan two immediately  on repaying  the further advance. And Mr A asked to borrow 
significantly more than hed previously asked for. 
I consider that Trusted Quid shouldve reasonably had some concerns about  whether it knew  
enough of Mr As financial situation  to decide whether to lend or not.
Trusted Quid has given  us evidence that it asked Mr A about his income and monthly 
expenses before agreeing loans two and three.  I dont think this was enough. I consider it 
was reasonable  to expect Trusted  Quid to try and verify the financial information that Mr A 
gave. 
Trusted Quid couldve done this in a variety of ways.  As weve  got Mr As bank statements, 
Ive used these  to establish what information  its likely that Trusted Quid wouldve seen had it 
carried out the kinds of checks I think were  proportionate.
For loan two, Mr As monthly income  was about £1,181. He had living costs of more  than 
£840 with regular financial commitments of a similar amount. 
When Mr A applied  for loan three he gave Trusted  Quid evidence  of his monthly income. 
Although this is higher than the adjudicator  referred to in his recommendation, it doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome. This is because with better checks, Trusted  Quid 
wouldve discovered that Mr A had monthly  living cost and credit  commitments of more  than 
£1,441. So Mr A wasnt left with enough disposable income from his salary of about £1,600  
to afford the repayments on loan three. 
I should also say that Mr As income  fluctuated each month so although it was higher in May 
2018, by June 2018 it had reduced to around  £1,266. In July 2016, I can see that Mr As 
monthly income was under £1,180. I also cant see any evidence on Mr As bank statements 
of the tax credits  that Trusted  Quid  have  referred  to as additional income.
I think that if Trusted Quid had carried out the level of checks that I consider  were 
proportionate, it wouldve  discovered Mr A couldnt  afford to repay  loans two and three in a 
sustainable way - that is out of his normal income.  As a responsible lender, I dont think  
Trusted Quid wouldve  agreed to lend. 
Mr A has lost out as a result so Trusted  Quid should  pay him compensation.
Ref: DRN87867333my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, Trusted  Cash  Limited 
(trading as Trusted Quid) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr A paid on loans two and three; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about loans two and three from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Trusted  Quid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8786733