K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund  payments he says he didnt make 
from his account.
background
Mr M explains he was in prison from March 2018 to January 2019. He disputes payments  
made from his account then from March until July 2018 which  totalled  £1,982.  These were 
made to his joint account with his ex-partner and then he says transferred on by her. He 
says that he didnt give her the authority to make these payments and hadnt disclosed his 
mobile banking  passcode.
Barclays didnt agree to refund this money. Mr M had given it an inconsistent account of how 
he says his ex-partner  was able to enter his property and obtain his other device that was 
used to make the payments. There was no explanation of how she had been able to access  
his account with a passcode for mobile  banking. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Although Mr M had said he had asked that his ex-partner be taken off the joint account  
this hadnt happened.  And money had been transferred to this account in January 2018 
and then onto another  account before Mr M was in prison.
-Mr M said he hadnt  written down the passcode needed to access mobile banking.
-Mr M at one time said he gave  authority  for his ex-partner to be given his home keys 
held by the prison and separately  that she was allowed access by a letting agent. But in 
either scenario there was no explanation of how she would have known the passcode  for 
mobile banking.
-These payments didnt seem unusual and there  was no reason for Barclays to think that 
they were fraudulent  at the time.
-The payments stopped  after July 2018 and Mr M says this is because his father  
obtained his possessions from his ex-partner. But she still thought he had authorised the 
earlier payments.
Mr M didnt  agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He maintained he didnt 
authorise the payments. If he had wanted  his ex-partner to access the account he would 
have given her his bank card and PIN. He didnt know  why he had transferred money to her 
in January 2018 as they had fallen out in December 2017. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a passcode  as here. And if these payments 
werent authorised  Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What  is the most  likely explanation of how the payments were made?
Ref: DRN82961042-Did Mr M authorise the payments on the account by allowing someone  else to use it as 
Barclays says?
Ive seen the payment logs provided by Barclays. Im satisfied  that the payments were 
authenticated through mobile  banking as the correct passcode was used. I note that one 
device Mr M registered for mobile  banking was used  up to 12:00 on 8 March  2018 - the day 
Mr M was sent to prison.  It wasnt used again  until he was released in 2019.  I can see that 
the disputed payments were made  using  a different device but which had already been 
registered by him for mobile  banking.
So I need to think  about whether he consented  to the payments.
Mr M says he didnt  expect to go to prison so hadnt  made any arrangements  for his account. 
His personal effects were  taken by officials and were held at the prison. At one time he said 
that he asked  the prison to let his ex partner have his keys as he was being asked to move  
out of his property.  At another time he said that she was allowed in by the letting agent but 
he doesnt have  anything to prove that. The case notes Barclays  made when he raised his 
complaint stated that he had left his log on details for his account  with his phone  on a post it 
note. He now says that that was the PIN for his phone and that his five digit passcode for 
accessing his account wasnt written down  and he hadnt disclosed it to his ex-partner.
There is a plausible  explanation of how she might  have been in possession of an old device  he 
hadnt been using. And the way the payments were made - to and then from what was still a joint 
account - are consistent with her making them. However, there is nothing to show  how she would 
have been able to make them unless  Mr M had given her the passcode. When this is taken 
together with their past relationship and the past evidence of payments between them I think  that 
the most  likely explanation is that he allowed his partner to transfer the money  in the account.
His bank statement shows that the money  withdrawn  came from benefit payments. It was 
transferred out on the day it was received at least for  the earliest of the payments he 
disputes. I understand that due to his situation at the time he may not have  been  eligible for 
benefits and may now have to pay this money  back - so there is a lot at stake for him. Hes 
right to say that payments  out stopped after July 2018 and the balance built up and then he 
withdrew the money on his release. I cant say why the disputed  withdrawals  stopped - there 
could have been a number of reasons  for that - and Mr M says he didnt find out about the 
payments until his release. But I dont think I need to resolve  that issue given  the other 
evidence and I find the most likely  explanation is that he authorised the payments. So I dont 
have a basis to require Barclays to refund them.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8296104