K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Arnold  Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold Clark) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M bought the policy in March 2002  at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in a car showroom. 
The loan was repayable over a 48 month  term. The monthly loan repayment  was £101.97 
with the PPI costing  an additional £6.93. The policy didnt attract  interest and could be 
cancelled by either party with 30 days notice without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ms monthly  loan repayment for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  or in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as a Health and Safety  Manager. She has told us she was 
entitled to employee  benefits which would help with her loan repayments if she couldnt work 
but has not told us what  her entitlement was. 
Mrs M has said she suffered from depression and received treatment  for it around 1994 but 
that the condition wasnt ongoing and didnt affect  her ability to work. 
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
Arnold Clark  failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Arnold Clark should 
have told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Arnold Clark should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN81516642Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Arnold Clark,  selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN81516643The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Arnold  Clark  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Arnold Clark was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Arnold Clark  gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Arnold Clark gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Arnold Clark,  Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN81516644Arnold Clark had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The PPI was applied  for completely separately from the loan and Arnold Clark have  given us 
a copy of the application form. I can see on the application form the cost of PPI and the loan 
have been set out separately and that Mrs M has signed below the declaration I hereby 
confirm that I have received the Summary  of Cover and have read and understood the terms 
and conditions that apply.
Just below this she was given the option  to decline PPI by signing below the words  I have 
had the benefits of Clark Cover explained  to me and I have chosen not to take the plan.
Mrs M then went on to complete a separate direct debit mandate  to pay for the PPI 
premiums.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Arnold Clark provide advice?
Both Arnold  Clark and Mrs M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  Arnold Clark didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs M. Instead, it 
had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  Mrs M to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability). Ive reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  
the policy was for. Im satisfied Mrs M understood the cost as it was shown on the 
application form. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Arnold  Clark gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mrs 
M agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Arnold  Clark gave  Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN81516645-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Arnold Clark ought  to have done either.  
What effect did Arnold Clarks shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs 
M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Arnold  Clark didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Arnold Clark done  things properly.  
Mrs M says she would not have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs M had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mrs M was given about the cost was clear.  But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Arnold  Clark made  clear exactly what Mrs M would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN81516646The policy excluded claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions, claims would 
not be paid if the claim happened during the 24 months following the inception of the 
insurance and it was caused or aggravated by any condition of chronic  or recurring 
nature from which the insured person suffered or received medical attention  or 
treatment at any time during the 12 month period prior to the inception  of the 
insurance;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
engage in any employment or occupation. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits, was in 
permanent employment  and it provided cover  that, despite its limitations and exclusions, 
couldve proved  valuable to her should  the insured  risks have become a reality.
And although Mrs M has told us she was treated  for depression in and around  1994, she has 
also told us that it didnt lead to her having any time off work and that the condition  wasnt  
ongoing. So I dont  think she wouldve  thought this condition wouldve been the main reason 
she would  need  to claim on the policy or that it wouldve put her off buying it if shed been  
told more clearly that it might not be covered. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs M 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs M, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
it out.
To make a disability claim, Mrs M needed to be totally unable to do her normal job and not 
be doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  she would have 
expected to make a claim. After  all, the PPI was to provide cover if she couldnt  work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So it seems  unlikely  she would have thought  shed 
been able to make a successful claim if she was still working, whether that be in her normal  
job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what 
Ref: DRN81516647its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Mrs M made  redundant,  or unable to work through  accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Arnold Clark should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks Arnold Clark misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Arnold Clarks statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Arnold 
Clark failed  to act fairly and reasonably  was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Arnold Clark gave  Mrs M, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2002 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN81516648Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Arnold Clark negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Arnold Clark had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8151664