K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  delayed assisting him and failed to recover  his 
car under his roadside assistance policy when it broke down. 
background 
In July 2018 Mr Bs car broke down. He called Ageas to arrange  recovery under his car 
insurance breakdown  cover. He was told the approximate wait time was between 60-90 
minutes but Mr B waited  for over three  hours for assistance on an extremely hot day. When 
the recovery agent arrived they were  able to get the car started again. Mr B asked for his car 
to be recovered  to his home as it wasnt safe to drive. The agent  told him his car was 
driveable as a temporary repair  had been  carried out so they wouldnt recover it. His car 
broke down  again on his way home  and he had to ask his wife to tow him home.  
Ageas didnt think they had done  anything wrong  and didnt uphold  his complaint. They say 
there was a one hour delay due to traffic  and problems accessing the exact location where 
Mr B had broken  down.  They  say theyre  not required to recover the car if theyve been able 
to repair  the car  which is what they did. They say the breakdown on the way home would 
be considered  a separate breakdown under the policy and not part of the first breakdown but 
Mr B never called for recovery on this occasion.
An investigator at this service reviewed  this complaint and didnt think Ageas  had done  
anything wrong  in repairing the car. However she acknowledged that Ageas werent realistic 
about recovery times and didnt  manage Mr Bs expectations around this. She thought   
Ageas should  pay Mr B £50 compensation. Ageas accepted this. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for £205 to be paid in compensation, including  £105 for loss of 
earnings and time. So this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy document outlines Ageas obligations  to Mr B in this situation.
We will send help to the scene of the breakdown and arrange to pay call-out fees 
and mileage charges  needed to repair or assist with your vehicle.
If, in the opinion of our Recovery Operator, they are unable to repair  your vehicle at 
the roadside, we will assist in the following way:
 Arrange and pay for your vehicle, you and up to 6 passengers to be recovered  to 
the nearest garage able to undertake the repair.
This Motor Breakdown Recovery Policy does  not cover the following:-
11. The recovery of your vehicle and passengers if repairs can be carried out at or 
near the scene  of the breakdown within the same  working day
32. Recovery of your vehicle or your transport costs to return  your vehicle to your 
home once  it has been inspected  or repaired.
Ref: DRN87543972The policy terms are clear  that recovery of the car only applies where the Recovery Operator 
is unable to repair the car at the roadside.  Ive listened to Mr Bs initial call to Ageas where 
he reports the breakdown.  Mr B confirms he would be ok provided he [the Recovery 
Operator] either gets me started or takes me home. In this call the operator  also advises 
him of the applicable policy terms and how they would assist him  by either repairing the 
car at the roadside or recover his vehicle. So Im persuaded that Ageas were clear about  the 
relevant policy  terms.
The Recovery Operator  was able to restart  the car. As he wasnt  able to find any fault,  he 
reasonably considered the car to be repaired sufficiently for Mr B to get home. He also 
advised Mr B to take the car to a garage to ensure any fault was diagnosed. As the 
Recovery Operator was able to get Mr Bs car started and repaired at the roadside within  
thirty minutes of arriving at the scene, I am satisfied that recovery of the car no longer 
applied.
I note that Mr B says the car was unsafe  to drive even once it had been re-started but 
nothing Ive seen  would  suggest this was the case. It was also clear to Mr B that this was a 
temporary fix so he still needed  to take his car to a garage for a full diagnosis. The fact that 
the car broke  down a second time isnt in itself evidence that the car was unsafe to drive. I 
know Mr B felt his wifes safety and his own was compromised but as Mr B didnt call for 
assistance on this occasion, I cant comment on this any further. 
Mr B says he had a three hour wait for recovery. In the initial call to Ageas the operator  
informs Mr B that the recovery times  should  be within 60-90 minutes  but it actually took 
much longer.  The call recordings I listened  to would  suggest the recovery  was logged just 
before midday  because  the operator had trouble establishing Mr Bs exact location. This 
meant they werent  able to instruct the recovery until the call was logged. Ageas explained 
that it took around two and a half hours from when the initial breakdown  was logged to when 
they arrived at the location. So they arrived at the scene sixty minutes after they said they 
would have done. They say this was because of traffic getting to the location and also 
problems with getting access to the location.  
Although traffic delay  and access to the location  are both reasonable explanations for their 
late arrival, from what Ive seen, it doesnt  appear that Ageas managed  Mr Bs expectations. 
Each time he called  Ageas he was given  a new timeframe for the Recovery Operators 
arrival, but he never  arrived in this time so Mr B and his wife had to keep calling  Ageas to 
find out how long he would be. Breaking down on a hot summers day and waiting with no 
accurate time estimate for recovery would have made the situation worse. Im persuaded 
that the delays,  along  with the fact that Ageas didnt manage Mr Bs expectations, added to 
the distress and inconvenience  he suffered. So I think Ageas should compensate Mr B £50 
for this.
I also note that Mr B says he suffered loss of earnings as a result of the way Ageas dealt 
with his situation but he hasnt been  able to provide  any further details about this loss. So Im 
unable to consider  the loss of earnings  claim any further.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Ageas Insurance Limited. They should pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN87543973Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754397