K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains on behalf  of the estate  of the late Mrs M that BMI Healthcare Limited 
hasnt refunded a credit  card payment made  in 2012.
background
The late Mrs M held a credit card with BMI. In 2012,  Miss M underwent some cosmetic 
surgery costing £3,200. The late Mrs M paid £2,000 of that cost using  her BMI credit card. 
The rest was paid by Miss M by bank transfer. Miss M says she agreed  to pay the late 
Mrs M back  the £2,000  in monthly instalments. 
Unfortunately the cosmetic surgery resulted  in a number of complications  for Miss M, 
including pain and several infections. Miss M underwent  further surgery  in 2013 to try to 
rectify the problems but further  complications  persisted. She says the cosmetic  materials  
used in the surgery have since been banned from use due to safety  concerns  and links to 
them causing serious conditions including cancer. 
Miss M says the clinic which undertook the surgery  was negligent  because  it didnt warn her 
of the risks.  She says there has been  a breach of contract because the cosmetic materials  
are unsafe  and not fit for purpose. In 2019,  Miss M raised a claim under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75) with BMI for a refund of the cost of the surgery. 
BMI didnt uphold her claim.  It said that under the Limitation Act 1980 it could only be held 
jointly liable under S75 for claims of breach  of contract or misrepresentation which happened 
within six years. It said that Miss M had raised  her claim too late as it had been  more than 
six years  since  the surgery took place.
Miss M referred  her complaint to our service. BMI didnt  consent to us investigating  the 
complaint as it said that she had also brought the complaint to our service too late. In 
addition, it said that their cardholder was the late Mrs M, so it couldnt be held liable for any 
losses suffered by Miss M. 
I sent a provisional  decision  to both parties  on 14 July 2020. I firstly explained why I 
considered that the complaint had been  brought in time. In summary, I said:
I said that in applying the Dispute  Resolution Rules (DISP)  and in particular  DISP  
2.8.2R, I considered the complaint  brought  by the estate of the late Mrs M was 
brought in time.  This was because there was a distinction to be made  between  a 
claim under S75 and a complaint. Our rules  say we can only consider complaints  that 
were brought within the required time limits   which has its own definition within the 
rules. When  Miss M (on behalf of the estate) raised  the S75 claim with BMI in 2019, 
this didnt meet the definition of a complaint .  
It wasnt until BMI had said it wouldnt provide a refund did the estate have cause to 
raise a complaint  against BMI, this event took place in 2019.  The estate had 
therefore referred their complaint  to this service within the required timescales  in 
DISP 2.8.2R. 
As I thought this service could look into the merits of the estates complaint. I explained why I 
didnt think BMI had acted  unfairly in turning  down  the S75 claim. I said:
Ref: DRN89652032My role isnt to decide whether  BMI is liable under S75. Instead, Im required to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In doing so, 
Ive taken into account  amongst other things  what S75 says. 
Miss M has given us a significant amount of detail about the impact  the surgery has 
had on her and her life. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties shes  gone through over 
such a prolonged  period of time. I can see her strength of feeling  about this and why 
a refund of the surgery cost is so important  for her. Im sorry to disappoint  her, but I 
dont think BMI has acted  unfairly in declining the S75 claim. 
The general effect of S75 is that if the late Mrs M had a claim for breach of contract  
or misrepresentation against the clinic  that carried out the surgery,  she could bring a 
like claim against BMI, providing that certain conditions are met. One of those 
conditions is that there  must be whats known as a debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) 
agreement. 
A d-c-s  agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between  the relevant 
parties in order to be able to make a S75 claim.  The formal wording is set out in 
Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  In summary, it says there needs to be a 
three party arrangement  between  a debtor, a credit and a supplier. 
S75 says it is the debtor that can raise a claim against the creditor (BMI). In this case  
that is the late Mrs M as she was the cardholder. However, the surgery wasnt  for 
her, it was for Miss M. The paperwork from the clinic is all in Miss Ms name as she 
was the patient and its clear from what Miss M has told us that the late Mrs M had no 
involvement in that process other than to facilitate part of the payment. 
As the surgery wasnt for the late Mrs M, I dont  think the estate has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  which it could hold BMI jointly  liable under 
S75. While its possible  Miss M might have  a claim against the clinic, she has no 
contractual relationship with BMI in order to bring  a S75 claim in her personal 
capacity either. For these reasons I dont think BMI acted unfairly in declining  the S75 
claim. 
BMI has also mentioned that Miss M was too late in raising a S75 claim due to the 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980.  That issue would be for the court to 
decide, if Miss M decided  to pursue her claim via that route. However, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable overall  Im required to take into account what the law 
says. I havent needed  to take these particular time limits into careful consideration 
here because I already  think  BMI acted fairly  in turning down the S75 claim for the 
reasons Ive already said. However, for completeness, it seems likely that Miss M (or 
the estate of the late Mrs M) would be too late to raise a S75 claim in court. So 
additionally, for this reason I dont think BMI acted  unfairly in declining  the S75 claim.  
As Ive already  set out, its possible  Miss M has a valid claim against the clinic that 
carried out the surgery. But Ive made no findings on that particular issue.  Ive only 
considered BMIs actions in relation to her S75 claim. Miss M may wish to pursue her 
claim against the clinic through  other  avenues  if she wishes. 
Neither Miss M on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs M nor BMI accepted my provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN89652033In summary,  Miss M said that BMI had agreed  she would be the second card holder on the 
account. She says BMI were aware  the only reason the card was being applied  for was to 
pay for her surgery. She said the terms and conditions didnt mention anything about not 
being able to claim in these  circumstances.  
BMI said, in summary, that it still didnt  consider  that this service had jurisdiction to consider 
the complaint  because  BMI hadnt  had eight weeks to consider a complaint about the way 
the claim was dealt with. It also said that Miss M wasnt an eligible complainant  under our 
rules so our service couldnt consider the merits of her section 75 claim and complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ill briefly address BMIs two additional  concerns around jurisdiction. It says the rules 
required it to have  received the complaint for the eight week  time period to start (in which  it 
needed to issue  a final response letter).  It says that the estate of the late Mrs M didnt send 
in any complaint to BMI directly about the handling  of the claim, so that time period has 
never commenced. But BMI did receive  the complaint, it was instead referred to it from this 
service. BMI didnt  raise any concerns or objections  at that stage about wishing to have eight 
weeks to investigate. In any event, eight  weeks have  passed since  it received notification  of 
that complaint.  Im therefore satisfied that I can consider the complaint the estate has raised. 
Secondly, it says Miss M isnt an eligible complainant. But this isnt a complaint thats  been  
brought by Miss M in her personal capacity. Instead,  Miss M has the relevant legal authority 
to represent the estate  in this complaint. Im satisfied the eligible  complainant  here is the 
estate of the late Mrs M, and it is the merits of the estates  complaint  that Im considering. 
Miss M has disagreed with my finding that BMI handled the estates S75 claim fairly. Miss M 
has said that she thought she was a second  card holder on the late Mrs Ms account and 
therefore this means the required DCS  arrangement was in place for a successful S75 claim 
to be made.  However,  I disagree. 
From everything Ive seen  Miss M wasnt a second (or additional) card holder on the late 
Mrs Ms credit card account.  But even if she had been (or was led to believe she would be), 
it would  make no difference to the outcome Ive reached. This is because  a credit card 
cannot be taken  out in joint names, although potentially multiple additional card holders can 
be added  to a single  account. Even where there  are additional card holders, it is the primary 
card holder  who is solely responsible for all the spending on the account, and it is they  not 
any additional card holders   that have  the contractual relationship with the credit card 
provider. 
The DCS arrangement  needed to exist between the debtor (who was the late Mrs M), the 
creditor (BMI)  and the supplier (the clinic). As the late Mrs M had no contractual relationship  
with the supplier (because it was Miss M that entered  into that contract),  it seems  there  was 
no DCS arrangement  in place. Therefore, I dont think BMI acted unfairly in turning down the 
estates S75 claim. 
Miss M says the terms and conditions of the credit card didnt mention that in these types  of 
situations a S75 claim might not succeed.  While  I appreciate  further information about  S75 
Ref: DRN89652034liability might  have  been helpful,  there was no obligation on BMI to include any further detail 
in the terms and conditions than it already did. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M on the 
behalf of the estate of the late Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
20 September 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8965203