K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1999. The policy covered Mr T only. Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs T that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs T say the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ts application  form for the mortgage.  This included 
a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes  to be ticked to show  whether they wanted to take 
it out. And the yes box has been  ticked.
Lloyds has also sent us a copy of a PPI proposal form and a direct  debit mandate for the 
PPI, both signed by Mr T.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Lloyds did make  it clear to Mr and Mrs T 
that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs T chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check that it was right for 
them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr and Mrs T have told us Mr T wouldnt  have received any sick pay and they 
didnt have any savings  or other means they couldve relied  on to make their repayments if 
he wasnt earning. So they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that Mr T was self-employed and so the policy wasnt  suitable  for 
him. But the terms of the policy say that self-employed  people are covered. And they dont 
make it significantly more  difficult  for a self-employed  person to claim, than for an employed  
person. So I still think  the policy was right for Mr and Mrs T.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs T clear information  
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But, for the same reasons  I think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs T if something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment. And Mr and Mrs Ts property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs T off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
Ref: DRN83759942But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375994