K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that a car he obtained  through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject the 
car and cancel the finance agreement.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 18 July 2019, a 
copy of which is attached. I concluded that the fault with the rear passenger wheel was, 
more likely than not, present  when the car was supplied. I thought  BMW Financial Services  
should be given  the opportunity to repair the car  by providing a new wheel and paying  for it 
to be fitted, including any tracking and balancing required.
I also thought  it should:
Pay Mr L £94 to reimburse him for the costs hed incurred.
Refund one months payment.
Pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
BMW Financial Services accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in summary,  that:
He wants to reject  the car and cancel the hire purchase agreement  because the fault 
occurred within 30 days of him obtaining  the car.
He believes the salesperson knew there was a fault with the car  and Mr L has 
provided information  in support of this.
There is a case study on this services website which  bears some relation  to his own 
complaint. In the case study, we concluded that the finance provider should take the car 
back and unwind the finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says he wants  to be able to reject the car and unwind  the finance  agreement.  I can 
understand why this is his ideal outcome. But I have to be fair to both parties.  I explained in 
my provisional decision why I thought it would be fair and reasonable to give BMW Financial 
Services the opportunity  to repair the fault by replacing the rear passenger wheel. Should 
this repair  prove unsuccessful, then I would expect BMW Financial Services to accept Mr Ls 
rejection of the car and to cancel the finance  agreement. 
I have taken into account what Mr L says about  the case study that hes quoted. But Ive 
considered the evidence  and circumstances of this complaint,  and the outcome of the case 
study does not change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN88129262Ive not seen enough evidence for me to conclude that the car was knowingly sold with a 
fault. 
Whilst I appreciate this will disappoint  Mr L, having considered  his further submissions, I see 
no reason to depart from my earlier conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should:
1.Arrange for a replacement wheel to be fitted, and for any additional work required as a 
result of fitting the new wheel,  for example tracking and re-balancing, to be carried  out at 
no cost to Mr L.
2.Pay Mr L £94.00  to reimburse him for the costs of the wheel balance  and alignment.
3.Refund one months payment of £288.81.
4.Pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88129263copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he obtained  through a hire purchase  agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car and 
cancel the finance  agreement.
background
Mr L obtained a car in December 2017, financed through a hire purchase agreement  with BMW  
Financial Services.
Mr L says that, within a few days  of obtaining the car, the tyre pressure sensor alarm for the rear 
passenger side tyre was set off. He pumped up the tyre, but the same alarm was set off twice more  
over the next few days.
He took the car to his local dealership who found  a piece  of plastic between the tyre and the wheel 
rim.
But, over the next few months,  Mr L noticed a vibration coming from the rear passenger side when 
driving on the motorway. The tyre then developed  a puncture. The local dealership replaced the tyre, 
but the vibration  continued.
Mr L took the car to a local tyre garage and it re-balanced the wheels, but the vibration didnt stop. Mr 
L returned the car to the tyre garage and it found the rear passenger tyre wheel was misshapen. 
The dealership said this fault wasnt covered  under the cars warranty so Mr L complained to BMW  
Financial Services.  It didnt  provide its final response  until after the complaint had been referred to this 
service. It offered  to refund  Mr L with one months payment.
Our investigator concluded that BMW Financial Services should replace the rear passenger  wheel, in 
addition to refunding one months payment  by way of compensation.
BMW Financial Services agreed.
Mr L didnt agree saying, in summary, that he wanted a higher level of compensation  because  of the 
anxiety caused by the faulty wheel, particularly when travelling on the motorway.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard  to the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider 
to have been  good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase  agreement is a regulated consumer  credit agreement. As such, this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. BMW Financial Services is the supplier  of goods under  this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied  term that the quality 
of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be persuaded that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality and so a breach  of contract  has taken  place.
Ref: DRN88129264In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age when it 
was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since  it was supplied and how long after supply the 
fault materialised. 
In April 2018,  an independent  garage found a fault with the rear passenger wheel. The dealership  
confirmed this fault in July 2018. From what Mr L has told us, I think this fault was present when the 
car was supplied  in December 2017. I say this because Mr L reported problems with the rear 
passenger tyre within  a few days  of obtaining the car and I think  this problem was caused by the 
misshapen wheel.
I think  its fair and reasonable  that BMW Financial Services is given the opportunity to repair the car  
by providing a new wheel and paying  for it to be fitted,  including any tracking and balancing required.
In trying to resolve the problem,  Mr L took his car to an independent  tyre garage. Hes provided  
receipts to show that he paid for a wheel  balance  (£24.00) on 28 April 2018 and electronic  wheel 
alignment (£70.00)  on 1 May 2018.  I think BMW Financial Services should  reimburse Mr L for these 
costs.
Mr L also paid for a new tyre, but he was able to claim for the cost of this through  an insurance policy, 
so BMW Financial  Services doesnt  need  to reimburse  him for this.
BMW Financial Services has offered  to refund one months payment - £288.81 by way of 
compensation. I think this is fair. But I also think  it should pay Mr L a further £100 for the additional  
distress and inconvenience  hes been  caused because of the failure to resolve this matter at an 
earlier date. The fault was confirmed  by the dealership  in July 2018 and Mr L complained to BMW 
Financial Services  shortly  afterwards. I think, in the circumstances,  it wouldve  been fair and 
reasonable for BMW  Financial Services to arrange the repairs when this matter was first brought to its 
attention.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should:
5. Arrange for a replacement  wheel to be fitted,  and for any additional work  required as a result of 
fitting the new wheel,  for example tracking and re-balancing,  to be carried out at no cost to Mr L.
6. Pay Mr L £94.00 to reimburse  him for the costs of the wheel balance and alignment.
7. Refund  one months payment of £288.81.
8. Pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812926