K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints about insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. Where a complaint  is about a claim under an insurance 
policy, we treat it as a complaint against  the insurance  company  responsible  for dealing  with 
the claim.
Mrs T had central heating insurance  in the name of the energy company that supplied  her 
gas and electricity. She was paying the yearly  insurance premium  by monthly instalments of 
£18.90.
AmTrust was the insurance  company responsible for dealing  with claims under Mrs Ts 
policy. Where  I refer to AmTrust I include other  companies and individuals insofar as I hold 
AmTrust responsible for their actions.
From 3 November 2018 to 18 January  2019  AmTrust took nearly 11 weeks to fix Mrs Ts 
boiler. 
In final response letter  dated 23 January 2019 AmTrust waived three  months instalments 
amounting to £56.70. Mrs T then received gas and electricity bills larger  than she expected.  
She complained that  for weeks  her boiler  had been either  providing  too much  heat or 
none at all. So she spent extra money on gas for the boiler and electricity for fan heaters.
On 7 February 2019 AmTrust  sent another final response letter.  It offered £150.00 as a 
goodwill payment towards  electricity  costs. With the £56.70 that made  a total of £206.70.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that 
AmTrust should have  been able to repair the boiler  on 12 November 2018 and it was 
responsible for the delays from this time. He recommended that AmTrust should pay Mrs T 
£150.00 in addition to the £206.70 already offered.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs T 
and to AmTrust on 9 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
AmTrust paid Mrs T £150.00, which is more than I would otherwise have found fair in 
total including for distress  and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mrs T or from AmTrust, my provisional  decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct Amtrust  Europe Limited 
to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
Neither Mrs T nor AmTrust have responded to the provisional decision. Therefore I see no 
reason to change  my view.
Ref: DRN82931882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T took out the policy in April 2018. It covered most central heating repairs.  But it 
excluded decorative  or designer radiators.
In my experience, electric heating is generally more  expensive  than gas heating. Mrs Ts gas 
and electricity consumption mustve  varied according to the weather outside  and other 
circumstances. And the prices of gas and electricity can also vary.
From what  she says,  Mrs T already had other  children to look after in the house. And she 
had a baby from about September 2018.
AmTrust visited on 4 November 2018.  I accept that it knew  about the baby. From  its records, 
I find that it adjusted  an electrode and left the central heating and hot water working. I dont 
think it wouldve worked without the fan - so I find that the fan was working. 
But AmTrust had noted a leaking isolation valve. It ordered that spare  part and there  was 
some delay. But the boiler was still working.  AmTrust visited again on 12 November 2018. It 
fitted the valve but found a problem with the fan. Unfortunately  it was unable to leave the 
boiler working. 
I dont find it unreasonable that AmTrust visited again on 14 November 2018  and fixed the 
fan. It left the boiler working. It declined to fix the decorative radiator in the lounge. I dont 
find that unfair, keeping  in mind the terms of the policy.
On 24 November 2018, Mrs T reported  that she again had no central  heating  or hot water.  
On 25 November AmTrusts records show that when it had changed the fan, it hadnt 
correctly fitted a spade connector. It put that right and restored central  heating  and hot water. 
After that, about  six weeks passed without any reported problems. So theres no evidence  of 
any faults, for example with thermistors  or the air pressure switch.
It was on 3 January  2019 that Mrs T again reported  that she had no central heating or hot 
water. On 4 January  2019  AmTrust visited. It found  the heating  and hot water were  
intermittent. It ordered  a printed circuit  board (PCB).
On 7 January  2019 AmTrust visited again. It didnt  fit the PCB.  Instead it worked on the 
expansion vessel, the filling loop and two thermistors. It left the boiler working. On 8 January 
AmTrust visited again and confirmed the boiler was working.
On 14 January 2019, Mrs T reported that the central heating or hot water  were intermittent. 
On 16 January 2019 AmTrust visited, fitted  a thermostat and left the boiler  working. On 18 
January 2019  AmTrust visited, fitted  an air pressure  switch  and left the boiler  working.
That made a total of nine visits in three months.  So I see why Mrs T thinks  AmTrust 
shouldve fixed her boiler sooner. But boilers   especially older  boilers  may have more 
than one fault at a time or over a period of time.  And intermittent faults can be difficult to 
diagnose. 
Ref: DRN82931883The most recent fault was the air pressure switch.  But that doesnt mean that it was the only 
fault all along.  Rather,  the records show many faults  that AmTrust fixed in November 2018 
and January 2019.  
Mrs T hasnt  said what she did about  the radiator in the lounge  that wasnt covered by the 
policy. I accept that she used some fan heaters in the house. And I accept that there were 
times when  she didnt want to let the boiler go off. 
I do hold AmTrust responsible for the incorrectly-fitted connector  from 14 to 25 November 
2018. But Mrs T didnt  call AmTrust until 24 November 2018. So I dont hold it responsible  
for leaving her without central heating and hot water for more than a day or two. 
I keep in mind the many  faults AmTrust had to fix. I also keep in mind  the variability of gas 
and electricity consumption and prices. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  
AmTrust to pay compensation for an increase in Mrs Ts gas and electricity bills.
I accept that AmTrust caused Mrs T some  extra distress and inconvenience  at an already 
difficult time for her and her family. In particular I find it likely  that it caused  the lack of central 
heating and hot water on 24 and 25 November  2018.
But Mrs Ts main  complaint was about energy bills. And AmTrust paid her £150.00, which  is 
more than I would otherwise  have found  fair in total including for distress  and inconvenience.  
So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct  AmTrust to pay Mrs T more than it already has.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Amtrust Europe Limited to do anything further  in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8293188