K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about abandoned car charges that PSA Finance UK Limited sought to 
recover from him after he ended his hire purchase agreement  with it.
background
In short,  Mr Ds version of events is as follows. In June  2015 Mr D entered into a hire 
purchase agreement  with PSA for a brand-new car. The agreement  was to last for 37 
months. Under the agreement Mr D had the option either to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement or return it to PSA. 
In April 2018, when  Mr Ds agreement  was coming to end, Mr D decided to give the car back  
to PSA.  He was about to move home  and leave the area. Mr D decided  to pay up everything 
he owed under the agreement and leave the car at a third partys  premises.  I will call this 
third party, which is a firm, G. 
Mr D told us this location  was safe (it was a secure  car park). He also told us he had PSAs 
permission in advance  to do this. Further, PSA also agreed that its collection  agent,. a third 
party firm which I will call M, would be in touch  to arrange to pick up the car from the safe 
space. The conversation took place  by phone.
After their conversation,  Mr D was under the impression that everything was sorted out; that 
being so, Mr D was surprised to find that his next contact with PSA was when it told him it 
was charging him for abandoning  the car. PSA also let Mr D know at this point that it had 
terminated the agreement for this reason. PSA then subsequently sold the car. Mr D 
objected to all of this. According to Mr D, PSA initially said it would get back to him, and then 
changed tack saying he owed it for the cars MOT. Mr D suggested by coming up with this 
new additional reason for charging him PSA was clutching at straws. Mr D was also upset 
that the way he saw it, hed done all the running and PSA had not responded to him.
Mr D wants PSA to stop asking him for the money  it says he owes  for abandoning the car. 
Further, he is prepared to meet PSA half way though,  in this respect, he says if PSA did 
have to carry out a MOT then he is prepared to pay for it. But he wanted to know  how much 
this had cost and that the MOT had actually been  done.
PSA sees  things differently. In summary,  initially it did not say whether or not it had agreed in 
April 2018 to let Mr D leave the car with G. Rather,  it said it wrote to Mr D on 5 June 2018 to 
let him know  M would  be in contact with him to arrange to pick up the car. However, 
following this someone from G called PSA to tell it that the car had no MOT  certificate. So, 
there was no point in M calling Mr D to arrange the collection, as it could not drive the car 
away without a MOT certificate. PSA pointed out that the hire purchase agreement said Mr D 
had to sort out the MOT certificate and he had not. PSA saw no reason why it was not 
entitled to rely on the terms of the agreement given theyd both entered into it freely  and 
agreed that theyd  stick to its terms. 
Moreover, PSA did not agree that it hadnt  responded to Mr D; quite  the opposite, it indicated 
there was an audit trail of emails between them. On that basis it did not understand where 
he was coming from with this particular  complaint  point.
Ref: DRN87766952Finally, PSA said it was merely relying  on the relevant terms of the agreement. The 
agreement says Mr D remains solely responsible for the car until it is returned to it. The 
agreement puts the onus  of Mr D to return the car to it. In particular, the agreement says:
5.6 Should you not wish to exercise  your option to purchase the vehicle you must deliver  
the vehicle to us in good condition at any address that we may reasonably  specify in the UK 
or the Isle of Man. The vehicle must  be delivered  at a date no later than the date
when the final payment  is due.
The agreement also says
5.7 You will ensure  that before delivery  of the vehicle  to us in clause 5.6 the vehicle does 
not require a MOT test for at least two months following the date when the final payment is 
due.
But from PSAs perspective, instead of doing  what he should  have done, Mr D breached the 
agreement in a number of ways. Mr D had left the car in Gs car park rather than delivering 
the car to it. The car didnt have a valid MOT  certificate. M couldnt collect the car due to the 
MOT certificate  issue. So, PSA decided it had no other option but to terminate the 
agreement, treat the car as abandoned and charge Mr D for all of this. That is what  it had 
done and as far as it was concerned it had done nothing  wrong.
Mr D was dissatisfied so came to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint. In the circumstances she didnt agree 
Mr D had abandoned the car. It followed she didnt agree it was fair or reasonable to charge 
him as if that is what he had done.  On this basis she also thought  PSA ought to stop 
pursuing Mr D for this money and remove anything it had mentioned  about  Mr D owing this 
sum that it had asked  to be registered on Mr Ds credit file. However,  she also thought Mr D 
remained responsible  to pay for the MOT and the removal charges.
Mr D agreed to pay for the MOT provided  PSA could show  it had already paid for it. He also, 
with reluctance,  agreed to pay for the car removal costs, again provided that PSA showed it 
had incurred these  costs. He expressed  a degree of dissatisfaction with all this because he 
suggested, at the end of the day, PSA only had to pay for the MOT and pay to remove  the 
car because  it had taken  too long to collect the car. It had taken it two months to do this. And 
from his point of view it looked like this delay had happened because PSA had not told M 
where the car was, although it knew where it was. Nonetheless to bring  this long- running  
and worrying disagreement to an end he was willing to pay these costs,  but these costs  only.
PSA rejected our investigators recommendation. Its position remained,  that the terms and 
conditions of its agreement with Mr D had been  breached by him. As a result, it remained 
entitled to insist that he put the breach  right in the way set out in the agreement.  It also told 
us at this point that it rejected the idea that it had ever agreed  with Mr D that he could leave 
the car in Gs secure car park.  Rather  hed done  that off his own bat without its permission. 
PSA therefore asked  that an ombudsman take a fresh look at Mr Ds complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87766953Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both Mr D and PSA agree that Mr D did leave his car with G in April 2018. The question here 
is did this amount to a breach of the contract  between them? I dont think it did here.  I say 
this because, although I can see the contract says Mr D had to return  the car to PSA. I am 
also persuaded they agreed to vary the contract  so that Mr D could leave the car with G. 
PSAs contact notes  mention Mr D contacting it to pay his final instalment. The notes also 
say PSA needs  to contact M to pick up the car. This all fits with what  Mr D said happened.  I 
take on board there is nothing in the notes, at this point, recording that Mr D told PSA he 
was going to leave the car with G. However, I dont think  it likely that Mr D would have gone 
to the trouble of contacting PSA to pay off his finance early and then just leave the car at a 
third party location  without agreeing this with PSA. The car was left in good condition it 
seems. Im persuaded  that someone  like Mr D who planned in advance and took good care 
of the car would have taken care about  the handover arrangements too.
Further, even if I thought Mr D left the car with G without PSAs permission (which I dont), I 
would not go on to say this amounted to abandonment. Gs car park is a secure car park, 
PSAs notes  show that when PSA was told the car had no MOT certificate, by Gs employee, 
it was also told exactly where  the car was. The agreement is clear that PSA can only rely on 
the abandonment provisions if the car is abandoned  and it was not. It follows it has no 
proper basis for trying  to charge Mr D for abandonment  in any event.
That said Mr D accepts he was obliged to pay for the MOT. I think it is fair and reasonable 
that PSA can continue  to pursue Mr D for that. It does not need to show Mr D it paid for this. 
For the sake of completeness, I would add if Mr D had suggested it was unfair  that he had to 
pay for a MOT  for a period when  he no longer  had the car I might I have come  to a different 
conclusion. But that is not his complaint point. Either PSA did pay for the MOT  or the car 
was most likely worth less when it sold it because  it had no MOT.  Either way PSA most likely 
made a loss due to Mr Ds failure to get the MOT done as he accepts he should have done.  
Also, I think in the circumstances PSA can ask Mr D to pay for the removal  of the car from 
Gs car park. M could not drive the car away due to the lack of a MOT certificate.  
Presumably the car had to be uplifted instead.  By leaving the car with G rather  than returning 
the car directly to PSA,  Mr D ought reasonably have known  there was going  to be a cost to 
get the car back  to PSA. If he hadnt wanted to pay this he could have taken the option  to 
return the car to PSA directly instead. Mr D makes the point that he thinks  that if M had 
picked up the car when  he notified PSA none of this would have happened.  But I disagree,  I 
think the cost was incurred because he chose  not to return  the car to PSA.  So, I dont think  it 
is fair or reasonable  that PSA should pick up the tab for the removal  of the car.
I mention all this to make it clear  that nothing  in this decision prevents PSA from continuing 
to ask Mr D to pay for the MOT and the car removal fee.
I understand that Mr D and PSA have been in contact via our investigator.  Our investigator  
has told Mr D how much the removal  costs  were, and he has agreed  to pay them. It does not 
seem PSA is asking  Mr D to pay for the MOT. Mr D will need  to contact PSA directly  to pay.
PSAs contact notes  show there was contact between Mr D and PSA about what  was going  
on with the car and the agreement. Albeit,  PSA has said it didnt give M Mr Ds new contact 
Ref: DRN87766954details and tell it where  the car was as soon as it should have done. But it made  no 
difference because  M would never  have  been  able to drive the car away in the 
circumstances. In the circumstances, I dont find that PSA didnt  provide  the level of 
customer service  Mr D was entitled to expect. It follows that I am making  no award in relation 
to this part of Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to stop treating Mr D as if he 
abandoned the car and stop pursuing  him for money  it says is owed due to this. It must  also 
remove any information it has asked  the credit reference agencies to register  about  the 
abandonment of the car and the termination  of the agreement for this reason.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8776695