K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
The policy was sold nearly  25 years ago and unsurprisingly weve  very little information 
regarding the sale  and no original documentation.  So its very difficult  for me to say with 
any confidence what happened.  I have  to consider whether Bank  of Scotland  made it clear 
that Mr G didnt have  to take out the MPPI  and whether he chose to take it out.
Mr G says that it didnt but due to the length  of time since the event, his recollections are 
understandably lacking in detail and I cant place much weight on this. Im not aware  of any 
specific concerns with how MPPI was sold by Bank of Scotland  at this time. And without any 
information to go on, I dont  think I can say that Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr G a choice.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr G so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr G says that he had 12 months  sick pay cover 
and therefore  if he was unable to work his sick pay could cover his mortgage  repayments. 
And so he didnt need the MPPI. But the MPPI also covered him if he was made  redundant. 
And if Mr G was long-term sick the PPI wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay he 
wouldve received.  So I dont think this means that the MPPI was unsuitable for him.
Mr G has said he couldve used the money  he paid for the MPPI as savings or to pay off his 
mortgage sooner.  But by the same token  if he claimed on the policy, he couldve used the 
money saved by having the MPPI to do the same.  And again his sick pay wouldnt be 
available if he lost his job. So I dont think this makes the MPPI unsuitable for him.
The MPPI was a comparatively low cost policy when compared  to what it could  pay out. And 
the consequences of missing repayments on a mortgage could be serious.  So I think the PPI 
wouldve given Mr G peace of mind that if he lost his job his mortgage  repayments would be 
met.
 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr G about the MPPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ultimately because of the time that has passed  since this policy was sold,  its very difficult  to 
draw any strong conclusions around what happened. And its largely for that reason and the 
reasons explained above, that mean I wont be upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN84443592my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint and make no award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8444359