K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined to pay their claim for 
water damage to their home under their home insurance. The claim was dealt with by a 
claims handling service though for convenience Ill refer to Ageas throughout.
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs G contacted  Ageas  as theyd noticed that the bathroom wall was 
spongy. They then proceeded  to strip out the bathroom and removed the tiles from the wall. 
Ageas sent out a loss adjuster who reviewed the damage. In the course of the inspection it 
noted that although Mr and Mrs G had taken  photos of the bathroom when it was stripped 
out, they hadnt taken any photos  prior to the strip-out. It considered that the damage  had 
been ongoing for some time, due to there being heavy staining to the sub floor.  It also noted 
water damage to the kitchen and dark runs on and discolouration of the wall. Mr and Mrs G 
advised that there had been a leak in the shower  pipework, but Ageas wasn't able to verify  
this. Noting that the bathroom had been stripped back  to the brickwork, Ageas said its 
position was prejudiced as it wasnt possible to assess how the damage  occurred  as it was 
consistent with damage  to seals or grouting (which wouldnt  have  been  covered). 
Ultimately Ageas said that the damage  had been occurring gradually over a period of 
months. It said that the damage occurring should have been noticed but as the bathroom  
had been stripped out and no photos  taken prior to strip out it wasnt  able to verify the claim 
properly. Mr and Mrs G complained that they hadnt  been told they needed to produce 
photos of the bathroom before the damage. They also complained of a delay in informing  
them. Ageas confirmed it wouldnt be paying  the claim.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Ageas had acted reasonably.  
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They showed us a 
photo of the bathroom some time prior to the damage which  showed it to be in good 
condition but Ageas said it didnt alter its decision.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy does cover them for an escape of water from pipework, so if there  
was a leak from the shower  pipework then that could potentially be covered. But the policy 
has an exclusion for damage  caused  by wear and tear or any other gradually
operating cause.  That is, if damage happens gradually, over a period of time then the policy 
does not normally  cover this. This is because the damage should  be reported as soon as it 
occurs as the insurer wont normally pay for damage which  could have been  repaired to 
prevent it getting  worse.
There is an exception to this; we say that if a policyholder couldnt reasonably  have been  
expected to have noticed the damage before they were able to report  it, the insurer should  
pay for the damage. In this case Ive noted  that there was damage in the form of dark 
staining and discolouration to the kitchen walls,  so it would  be reasonable to say that 
Mr and Mrs G should  have noticed  the damage  some time before they reported it. 
Ref: DRN81843632Additionally in the initial call Mrs G said the damage  was noticed because  the walls 
appeared to be spongy, and again  that should  have  been noticed  before.
But more  importantly in this case,  Mr and Mrs G had had the whole bathroom stripped out 
before Ageas was able to inspect the damage. Here  the loss adjuster noticed  dark staining 
to the sub floor which might well not have been noticed before the floor was taken up. But 
there may well have been evident  damage  to the bathroom floor, which  Ageas wasnt  able to 
inspect. So it has fairly said that its position  had been prejudiced,  in that it wasnt  able to fully 
inspect the damage, and no photos  prior to the strip out were taken.
I understand Mrs G says that they werent asked to take photos prior to the strip out but were  
expected to produce photos of the bathroom prior to the damage. I suspect  she has 
misunderstood here. I wouldnt expect there to be photos prior to the damage,  but if, as here, 
she told Ageas that they were going to start stripping they would  be expected to be asked to 
take photos prior to starting the strip out, which unfortunately  Mr and Mrs G didnt do. The 
one photo theyve now produced I note is about  four years old so unfortunately isnt relevant.
As for Mr and Mrs Gs allegation  that there was a delay, I note that the claim was registered 
on 15 March and that they were  advised  of Ageass  decision by 5 April. I think thats 
reasonable so Im not persuaded that there  was any delay.
Overall I think  it right to say that there  was damage that had been occurring gradually and 
that Mr and Mrs G should  have noticed  the damage occurring. By stripping out the bathroom 
and not taking photos before doing this, they prejudiced Ageass attempt to assess the claim 
properly. So I cant reasonably uphold their complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8184363