K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Paragon Finance PLC made errors which meant they made 
overpayments to their secured loan account.  They ask that it refunds the overpayments  with 
8% interest.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a secured loan in 2006.  The interest rate was fixed for the first three 
years and then a variable  rate applied which changed in line with the Finance House Base  
Rate (FHBR).  In June 2013  Mr and Mrs Js loan was transferred from their original lender to 
Paragon. 
Mr and Mrs J found out recently that between 2008 and 2016 the interest rate on their loan 
had reduced but their monthly repayments remained the same.  This meant  they made 
overpayments each  month. They also found  out that Paragon had known about this since  
September 2016. Paragon told them that when it reduced their monthly repayments in 2016 
it took account of their overpayments as well as a change in the interest rate. 
Mr J says Paragon should have checked their monthly repayments were correct  when it took 
over the loan in 2013. And it should  have told them about the overpayments  when it found 
out about them in 2016. Mr J says Paragon should have given them  the option to take the 
overpayments as a lump sum and should now offer this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Paragon  
didnt know when it took over the loan that the monthly repayments werent correct.  Paragon 
correctly changed  Mr and Mrs Js monthly repayments when there was a change in the 
FHBR in September  2016. The adjudicator said he couldnt ask Paragon to refund the 
overpayments as this would result in Mr and Mrs J being required to make higher monthly 
payments. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. Mr J said theyd had no problem maintaining payments at the 
higher amount for many  years and there was little risk of their circumstances changing. He 
said Paragon was responsible for administering the loan and should have checked the 
payments were correct.  Mr J said he still doesnt  know how much theyve overpaid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs J made  overpayments to their loan account for a number of years.  This started  
when the loan account was with their previous lender. The lender didnt reduce 
Mr and Mrs Js monthly  repayments when the interest rate reduced.  The overpayments 
continued after Paragon  took over the account in 2013. 
The loan terms say that if Paragon varies the interest rate it may vary the monthly 
repayments to ensure  all principal and interest  is repaid  during the loan term. 
Ref: DRN89091582Paragon varied  Mr and Mrs Js interest rate in 2016 following a change in the FHBR. It also 
varied the monthly repayments. It says it took into account the lower interest rate and the 
overpayments. Mr and Mrs Js monthly  payments reduced from £208 to £99. The reduction 
in the loan balance due to the overpayments means  Mr and Mrs J can make lower  monthly 
payments and still repay the loan during its original term.  I think Paragons change  to the 
monthly repayments is consistent with the terms of the loan.
Mr J says Paragon should have checked the monthly repayments  were correct when it took 
over the loan. He says they should  have been told about the overpayments when Paragon 
found out about them and been given the option to take the overpayments as a lump sum. I 
dont think though that the terms and conditions of the loan require Paragon to do this. In 
addition, a new lender wouldnt usually immediately review  the monthly payments on loans 
its taken over. The lender would reasonably assume that the loan had been managed  in 
accordance with its terms and conditions to that point. When  a lender takes over a number 
of loans, it will continue to administer  the loans in line with what  its been told about them  
meaning it will continue to take the same  monthly  payment  until theres an event that triggers  
a review. In Mr and Mrs Js case, that trigger didnt happen until 2016.  Theres  nothing  wrong  
in a lender acting in this way.
Mr and Mrs J were unaware  of the overpayments  until recently   more than a year after the 
overpayments had ended. Mr J says they had no difficulty making  the higher repayments. So 
I dont think the higher  repayments caused  Mr and Mrs J financial difficulties or upset. 
Paragon provided  a statement that shows Mr and Mrs Js monthly payments were  applied to 
the loan account. So Mr and Mrs J had the benefit  of the overpayments,  which reduced the 
loan balance  and, as a result, the overall amount of interest theyll pay. 
I understand though why Mr and Mrs J find all this worrying.  They  were  unaware of the 
overpayments and dont  know  how much theyve overpaid. Mr J is concerned that they wont 
get the benefit of the overpayments if they repay the loan early.  I see no reason why this 
would be the case. And, as Ive said, Mr and Mrs J have already had the benefit of those 
higher payments, because they were  used to reduce the capital balance. Mr and Mrs J have 
paid less interest than they otherwise would have because of the overpayments. But if 
Mr and Mrs J do want to repay the loan early  they can ask Paragon for an early settlement 
amount. If they have  any concerns about  the amount they are being  asked to repay they can 
ask for advice from a suitably qualified person.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8909158