K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr O applied for a credit  card in 1993 and bought a PPI policy at the same time. Bank of 
Scotland says Mr O applied for the card by post.
Mr O says he got full sick pay and so didnt need  the cover. He says if the cost and benefits 
of the policy  had been made clear to him, and if hed known it was optional,  he wouldve 
declined it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Os complaint didnt uphold it. Mr O disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint, Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Mr O he had a choice about PPI and get his 
agreement to it. Ive seen a copy of the postal application form Mr O filled in and signed to 
get the credit card and the PPI. Theres a section on the form headed Additional  Services  
and the form has been ticked to say Mr O wants  Credit Care, which is what the PPI was 
called. So I think,  at the time, Mr O chose the cover knowing he didnt  have to  if he hadnt 
wanted it, I dont  think  the box wouldve been ticked.
Because this was a postal sale, Bank of Scotland says it didnt make Mr O a tailored 
recommendation to buy the PPI. So it didnt need  to make sure it was right for him. But it did 
need to give Mr O enough clear information about  the PPI for him to be able to make that 
decision himself in an informed way.
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this. And I think  its quite likely it didnt 
make some things about the PPI policy as clear  as it shouldve  done  such  as its true cost, 
its benefits and the things  it didnt  cover.
But that doesnt mean I must automatically  uphold Mr Os complaint. Instead, I must think 
about whether,  if Bank of Scotland had given Mr O all the clear information  it shouldve done, 
he wouldve changed  his decision and not gone  ahead with buying  it. From what Mr O has 
said about his circumstances at the time and the policy  details Bank of Scotland has given 
us, I dont think it wouldve. I say this because: 
Mr O was eligible for the policy. And I havent  seen anything  about his circumstances 
to make me think hed have been  affected  by some  of the common  exclusions we 
often see in these  policies. So I think he couldve claimed the full policy benefit if hed 
needed to.
Ref: DRN84957562Mr O says he got full sick pay and so didnt need  the cover. But the PPI, which 
wouldve helped with Mr Os monthly card payments  for as long as he was unable  to 
work (or until the balance on the card was cleared) for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim he made, wouldve  paid out on top of his sick pay 
and, potentially, for longer than his full sick pay lasted.  So I think it gave him a useful 
benefit.
As Mr O paid for this policy by a monthly premium,  if his circumstances changed or 
he no longer wanted  the policy, Mr O couldve  cancelled it at any time without losing 
out.
So, based  on what Ive been told about Mr Os circumstances and the policy terms, it looks 
like the PPI couldve been useful to him. This means that, even  though its likely Bank of 
Scotland didnt  make  everything as clear  as it shouldve done,  I dont think Mr O has lost out 
because of this. So I dont think Bank  of Scotland needs to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019. 
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8495756