K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc wont offer her assistance with her mortgage.
background
Ms H has an interest-only mortgage  which she holds jointly with her now ex-husband, Mr H. 
Whilst the mortgage is still in joint names,  the complaint  has been brought  just by Ms H as 
the separation  is acrimonious and she didnt  want Mr H to be involved. Due to the sensitivity 
of the situation  and to protect  Ms Hs privacy when this decision is published Ill keep  matters  
fairly vague rather than mentioning too much detail.
Ms H and Mr H separated many  years ago and Ms H remained in the property. The 
mortgage went into arrears in May 2012  and has remained so to date. In September  2013  
Bank of Ireland  obtained a full possession order over the property, but it has chosen not to 
enforce that and instead has allowed Ms H to remain in the property.
In December 2018 Ms H contacted Bank of Ireland to ask if the mortgage could be moved to 
a preferential interest rate as she was on the standard variable rate. Bank of Ireland  asked  
Ms H to provide details  of her income  and expenditure  so it could explore the options.  After 
receiving that information Bank of Ireland said there was nothing that could be offered due to 
affordability concerns  and the absence of Mr Hs consent.
Unhappy with this Ms H complained, saying she hadnt missed  any payments since the court 
order and was paying an extra £50 a month towards the arrears. She said Mr H wouldnt 
co-operate,  and so Bank  of Ireland should  make  changes without his permission.
Our investigator didnt  think Bank of Ireland had done anything  wrong  and so didnt uphold  
the complaint.  Ms H didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive a great  deal of sympathy for the 
position Ms H is in. As I said, Ive not gone  into any detail about  that in this decision to 
protect Ms Hs privacy  once the decision is published. But Id seek  to reassure her that Ive 
read and taken into account everything  shes said and provided.  
I trust Ms H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution  service and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.  
Its important to keep  in mind here that Ms H is only one of the two customers 
Bank of Ireland  has on this mortgage. Bank of Ireland has a responsibility to ensure both 
customers agree to any changes. What Ms H is doing, in essence, is asking Bank of Ireland 
to commit Mr H to a mortgage contract  that would be different from the one he originally 
agreed, but without his permission. Im sure if the roles  were reversed Ms H would be 
horrified that this could be done  to her.
Although Ms H is living in the property and intends to continue  paying the mortgage, Mr H 
has equal rights under  the mortgage contract. And part of those rights includes that the 
Ref: DRN85543392contract cant be altered  without his agreement, even  if Ms H feels  it would benefit both of 
them. I can understand why Ms H may not want to contact Mr H, and I understand he may 
not cooperate  in any event. But unfortunately Bank  of Ireland simply cant  make  the 
alterations that Ms H wants  without  Mr Hs agreement,  and I cant  order it to do so.
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Ms Hs situation is anything but temporary. Theres  no doubt Ms Hs 
gone through difficult times, and the pressure to make the mortgage  payments against such 
a backdrop must have  been immense for her. But my impartiality  means I must also have 
regard for Bank of Irelands  point of view. 
Even if Mr H did agree,  Bank of Ireland can only agree to a forbearance plan if its affordable  
and if its a short term measure. Ms Hs income and expenditure didnt offer Bank  of Ireland 
the comfort that any options would be both affordable  and would resolve the arrears situation 
over a short time period. Ms Hs mortgage  is already interest-only so a term extension 
wouldnt make  any difference in the monthly payment due. The proposed  forbearance 
interest rate still caused affordability concerns,  and wouldnt have cleared the arrears  in the 
short term as theyd  have  taken over a decade  to repay based on the amount Ms H is 
currently paying.
Whilst Ms H has said shed not missed any payments  since the court  order and thats  shes 
been paying £50 extra each month to reduce her arrears, thats  not supported by the 
evidence. The last annual  mortgage statement that shows Ms Hs balance  decreasing  was 
the one issued for the year ending  31 March 2017  where the balance went down by about 
£230 over the year.  Since  then its increased,  with the year ending  31 March 2018  the debt 
increasing by about £550,  and the year ending 31 March 2019  by about £200.  This supports 
Bank of Irelands  concerns  about  the ongoing affordability of the mortgage  and Ms Hs ability 
to repay  the arrears  within a reasonable timeframe.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8554339