K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs M says she wasnt told the PPI was an optional extra  and she wouldnt have chosen 
to take it out. But Mrs Ms mortgage was arranged through  an intermediary and the PPI 
wasnt sold at this time  like you might expect  if it to be if it was something  she had to 
have to get the mortgage. Its likely Halifax contacted Mrs M when it received her 
mortgage application to discuss the PPI. And then Mrs M signed an acceptance form 
that says on it to be returned if you wish to proceed with the contract. This would 
suggest that she didnt have to return it if she didnt  want the PPI. So I think its likely 
Halifax made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. Mrs M says she would have  received  full pay from her employer at the time for up 
to 12 months if she was off sick, so she didnt need the PPI. Understandably she hasnt  
been able to provide any evidence of this. And while  I dont doubt  her employer did offer 
generous benefits, in my experience full pay for 12 months is unusual. In any event, the 
PPI would have  paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs M received for up to 24 months, for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.  So I think Mrs M could have found it useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN89606032my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8960603