K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has been  sending 
him marketing communications about his credit card against his express wishes.
background
Mr S has opted out of marketing communications from American Express.  But he complains 
that he was still been  contacted by email  about  his card account. He does not agree  that this 
was a servicing email  and believes  that American Express  has breached the General Data 
Protection Regulations and other relevant legislation about unsolicited  marketing.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  American  Express  agreed 
that Mr S had opted out of marketing.  But it considered an email  it had sent him about  using 
his card at small businesses to be a servicing  email. These  were  not something he could opt 
of out. Our adjudicator did not think that American Express had acted outside  the terms of its 
agreement with Mr S. He said that if Mr S still thought that there had been a breach of 
regulations then he could contact the Information Commissioners  Officer.
Mr S did not agree.  He said that American  Express was sending  him emails under the guise 
of service emails but these were clearly for marketing purposes.  This was a breach of his 
decision to opt out of receiving marketing emails.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute  resolution  and we are not the regulator. We take 
account of relevant law and regulations  in deciding what is fair and reasonable. If Mr S does 
not agree  with my decision he is free to pursue this by legal means subject to any relevant 
time limits.
Our adjudicator referred to the agreement Mr S has with American  Express. And Im going to 
start by setting out relevant  parts  of that for this complaint. In the agreement Mr S consented 
to the use of his personal information by American Express for the following purposes:
communicating with you, including by email, SMS or any other electronic method about any 
American Express accounts, products or services which you hold (including for the purpose 
of servicing and by way of Account alerts).
giving you important information about updated  and new features and benefits.
But American Express also told him that he could opt out of receiving marketing from us 
and other  companies  within our group  at any time. It is not in dispute that he did so.
Mr S referred in his original complaint to a specific email from American Express he received 
on 27 September 2018 which said that Your card is welcomed at small businesses  and 
under a heading of important information that You are being  sent this service related 
communication as it contains information  about  an integral benefit of your card. The email 
set out how he could use his card at small businesses as part of Shop Small and that he 
would receive all the rewards on his card if he did. The email allowed him to access a map of 
Ref: DRN88857222local small businesses and said this was more  reasons  to support small businesses.  Mr S 
has sent copies  of further emails after that about a related discount programme he could 
access through his card.  And it is clear that by 30 November 2018  he had already decided  to 
register for this discount.
American Express said in response  to Mr S about his complaint that its marketing team  has 
advised that the original email he complained about  is considered to be one of a servicing 
nature. American  Express said in its response  to this service that a business  decision was 
taken to classify this as a servicing message. And that there  is no provision to allow Mr S to 
opt out of receiving these messages.
It is clear to me that American  Express is conscious that it needs to distinguish  in this way 
between servicing  and marketing emails. I know  Mr S takes  the view that the first email  he 
received was a marketing  email and I understand why he says that. I dont think  American 
Express can determine the issue simply by labelling a communication in one way or another 
as its both the content and intention that is relevant. However, having considered the 
evidence carefully  I am not persuaded on balance that American  Express  has acted outside  
the terms of its agreement with Mr S in the particular  circumstances of this complaint.
I dont find it has acted  unreasonably and so Im afraid I wont be asking it to do anything  
further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885722