K820x#14complaint
A director of G, a limited  company, complained on Gs behalf that Lloyds Bank PLC refused 
to lend the company the money it needed  to complete a property development. Because  of 
this, he says that G was forced to borrow money  elsewhere, forcing the company to incur 
break costs  and substantial fees. 
background
In 2014, Lloyds agreed to provide G with a loan of around £152,000.  This was to repay a 
loan originally provided by a local enterprise  fund to finance the conversion of a property into 
seven flats. Lloyds  loan was for a 25 year term, with the first 15 at a fixed  rate of interest. 
By 2016, G had almost  completed five of the flats,  but needed more  money  to complete the 
remainder. The bank declined to lend more and transferred responsibility for G to its 
Business Support  Unit. 
In 2017, the bank agreed a £30,000  loan to complete one of the flats. 
In 2018, the company asked the bank for more money to complete the final flats. After  a 
series of meetings,  the bank declined to lend more as it said the lending wasnt affordable for 
the company.  
In November 2018, G refinanced with a new lender, repaying all its borrowing with Lloyds 
and paying break costs  of around £13,800  for the fixed rate loan.  
Shortly after this, a director  of G complained  to the bank that G had been treated unfairly. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. So the director of G asked this service  to have a look at 
things. He told us that he thought Lloyds had terminated their contract unfairly. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt think the bank had acted 
unfairly. He said hed seen no evidence that the bank had promised  to fund the entire 
development. And he could see that the bank had considered  the lending  request in detail. 
The director  disagreed. He made  the following points:
Why would the bank lend at all if it didnt intend to see the development through to 
completion?
There had been an agreement that Lloyds  would provide mortgages on the 
completed flats, once they were let. 
The real problem was that G had to repay  Lloyds lending in full because they had 
the whole  property as security. G couldnt  borrow from another lender without Lloyds 
releasing this charge.  
As the director of G didnt  agree with our investigators findings, Ive been  asked  to reach a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, for essentially  the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN81087342Both sides seem to agree here that G intended from the outset to build seven flats in the 
development. It was also clear that the company would  need more funds than the amount 
provided by the fixed rate loan to complete the project. And that the company didnt intend  to 
sell the flats on completion, but rent them out. 
I know the director of G believes that the bank had agreed to lend enough to complete the 
project, by providing  mortgages on the completed flats, once let. I can see from the banks 
internal notes that the relationship manager  was aware of this plan to request more  
borrowing against each  flat. But although the bank may have made  some  positive noises  
about that plan, that isnt the same as the bank having committed to lend more. After  all, it 
couldnt know what the flats would be worth, or how much rental income they would  
generate, until they were  completed and let. In any case, I can see no evidence of any firm 
commitment beyond the fixed rate loan provided  in 2014. 
By 2016, the banks letter made  it clear  that it had concerns  about  G. Lloyds  not only wasnt  
prepared to lend more, but also transferred the management of its relationship with G to its 
business support  unit. The reason given was that Gs accounts showed it to be loss-making. 
I can also see from Lloyds records that it had been over its overdraft limit on several 
occasions. 
I realise this decision  not to lend more must have been frustrating for the director, as all loan 
repayments were up-to-date. But the bank has a duty to lend responsibly.  And I dont think I 
can fairly conclude  it was unreasonable for it to have reservations  about lending more  in 
those circumstances.  
At some point in 2017, the bank  agreed to lend £30,000 more to enable another flat to be 
completed. But in 2018,  despite numerous meetings with the bank, Lloyds concluded that 
further lending  wasnt affordable. Ive looked at the banks July 2018  letter,  and I think  its 
clear that Lloyds considered Gs request thoroughly. Its letter explains in some  detail  that the 
rental income from the completed flats,  after agency  costs, is lower than the servicing costs 
of the debt, including the new loan. I think it was reasonable for the bank to carry out this 
calculation. And I think it explained  its decision clearly and unambiguously. 
The bank had security  for its lending in the form of a first charge over the whole property. 
This meant that when G looked to borrow the money to complete  the project elsewhere, it 
couldnt find a lender  willing to lend, as it had no security to offer. It could only find someone 
willing to refinance  the entire project,  taking  a new first charge themselves. This in turn 
meant repaying Lloyds  and thereby  incurring  break  costs on the loan. 
I can see why the break costs made  refinancing very expensive for G. But I dont think  this 
shows that the bank did anything wrong.  The break  costs were set out in the loan 
documentation. And the directors  clearly  knew that there would  be break costs, as theyd 
asked for a quotation  for them in 2016.  I dont think it would be fair to require the bank  to 
waive them,  just because  it wasnt willing to lend any more.  
In summary,  Im not persuaded there  was any commitment to further lending  on the part of 
the bank. I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to decline  to lend more. And I dont 
think it was unfair of them to charge the exit fees set out in their documentation. 
Ref: DRN81087343my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the director of G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8108734