K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs P payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why. 
I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional,  but that she still chose 
to take it.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs P, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mrs Ps particular  circumstances.  However,  finding  yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would  have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ps situation  at the time: 
Its likely  Mrs P was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mrs P received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when Mrs P would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living costs.  This all would have put Mrs P in a more  secure  
position, if shed  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs P couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs P would  
have been affected  by any of these
Mrs P says she was self-employed at the time,  and so the PPI wouldnt have been suitable  
for her. However the evidence is that she told Bank of Scotland  she was employed and I 
have seen an employer  reference supplied in support  of her mortgage. So I think  it likely 
Mrs P was employed at the point she applied for the mortgage  and PPI.
Ref: DRN85958642So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs P to decide whether she wanted  to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mrs P took the PPI. I say this because its likely the potential benefits  were 
greater than Mrs Ps sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt  significantly high.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mrs P would have been  affected  by any of these. And shed be paying for it 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8595864