K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained about the way Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  has dealt with 
his mortgage account. There are a number of issues hes unhappy about, going  back  to 
2003. The mortgage was originally held jointly  by Mr P and his wife. I am very sorry to note 
that Mrs P passed away in 2017. To redress his complaint, Mr P wants his mortgage 
annulled.
background 
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex  .Ive,  summarised  
events in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using my own words. Im allowed to do 
that.
Mr Ps complaint originally  comprised  of several different elements. However, in a decision in 
February 2019, an ombudsman colleague  decided our jurisdiction to consider the complaint  
was limited to the following matters:
lack of support  from Halifax  when  Mr Ps wife was very ill;
distress caused by Halifax sending letters to both Mr P and his wife after her death;
poor customer service when Mr P tried to submit her death certificate to Halifax;
his concerns that the mortgage account  hasnt been set up properly  Mr P says that if it 
had been administered as hed set it up, hed have  repaid it by now; and
Halifaxs refusal to deal with these issues.
The investigator who looked into the above issues considered that, although not formally  
advised of her death, Halifax  could have acted on Mr Ps passing reference to his late wife  
in a letter he sent it in October  2017. Had it done  so, Halifax  could  have arranged  much 
sooner for Mr P to provide a copy of the death  certificate. Instead,  it sent a letter,  addressed 
to them  both, which caused Mr P a great  deal of distress. 
She recommended Halifax pay Mr P £100  compensation  for this (which it agreed to do) but 
didnt recommend the other elements of the complaint be upheld.  Mr P doesnt  accept her 
findings, and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
To be clear, Im not revisiting  my ombudsman colleagues decision on our remit to consider 
this complaint. Nor am I revisiting the responses  from fellow ombudsman on Mr Ps service 
complaint or the adjustments we need to make to accommodate  his disabilities. My review is 
confined to looking at the heads of complaint set out in the summary above on their merits.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr P wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
Ref: DRN84922112lack of support  from Halifax  when  Mr Ps wife was very ill
This was in 2015.  Lenders have a regulatory duty to offer forbearance  to borrowers  in 
financial difficulty. But that doesnt  mean lenders must always agree to every  request a 
borrower makes. Mr P wanted  Halifax to waive  the mortgage balance altogether; the bank 
wasnt willing to do that and theres  no reasonable basis for me to find that it should  have  
done. 
Halifax gave Mr P contact details for its priority  customer team;  this is the specialist 
department set up to find ways of helping consumers in difficulties. It seems Mr P didnt get 
in touch with the team  so there was no further  opportunity for Halifax  to see if it could offer 
help.
distress caused by Halifax sending letters to both Mr P and his wife after her death
On this, Ive reached  the same broad conclusion as the investigator and for much  the same  
overall reasons.  Halifax could have been  more alert to what Mr P had said in his 
October 2017 letter, and realised his wife had passed away.  That would have given it the 
opportunity to engage with Mr P to register his wifes  death  and put the mortgage into his 
sole name. 
That opportunity was missed, and instead Mr P received a letter addressed  to him and his 
wife. Halifax has accepted the investigators finding  that that shouldnt have happened and 
agreed with her recommendation that it pay Mr P £100 compensation. In my view,  thats  a 
fair outcome. 
poor customer service when Mr P tried to submit her death certificate to Halifax
Halifax suggested Mr P take a copy of the death certificate to a local branch. What it didnt 
say was that it might be a good idea to make an appointment in advance, in case there 
wasnt anyone available  at the time to deal with such a sensitive matter. That, unfortunately, 
is what happened. I dont replicate his words  here but I can say that Mr Ps written very 
eloquently about how upsetting he found the experience. 
Its not possible for me to stand in Mr Ps shoes and feel the way he felt; and CCTV footage  
(had it been available) wouldnt  help me do that. What I would say is that, with the best will in 
the world, things sometimes go wrong,  even when the parties involved are well-intentioned 
and trying to do the right thing. Taking  a step back and looking at matters subjectively, as I 
must do, it seems to me this was one of those  occasions.
his concerns that the mortgage account  hasnt been  set up properly  Mr P says that if it had 
been administered  as hed set it up, hed have repaid it by now
If Mr Ps mortgage had been administered as it was originally set up in 2003  (that is, with the 
whole balance on capital  repayment) then all other things being  equal, the balance would 
have fallen substantially  by now. It wouldnt have been repaid in full because  the mortgage  
term was 25 years, and it started 16 years ago. The reason  that hasnt happened is because  
Mr P asked the bank  to change the way the mortgage was administered.  
For one thing, Halifax twice agreed to a request from Mr P to lend him more money, in 2004  
and 2009 respectively. Hes said Halifax was wrong  to do that (indeed, hes said Halifax was 
Ref: DRN84922113wrong to grant the 2003 mortgage at all) but the lending decisions are amongst the issues 
my ombudsman colleague decided we have  no jurisdiction to consider.  
More pertinently,  in 2007, Mr P asked  Halifax to switch the mortgage balance  as it then was 
to interest-only.  He and Mrs P made  a declaration that they had a plan in place to pay off the 
capital; Halifax took what they said on face value, as regulations allowed it to do at the time.
In summary,  the mortgage has, throughout,  been  administered as Mr P wanted it to be.
Halifaxs refusal to deal with these issues
Halifax dealt with all of these issues; it provided written responses to each of them. Its 
responses werent what Mr P was hoping for, but I cant fairly  conclude that it refused to deal 
with them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that this complaint  should fairly 
be settled by Bank of Scotland  plc paying Mr P £100 compensation. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Jeff Parring ton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8492211