K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs O took out PPI with her mortgage  in 1998, and she took out additional PPI to cover  a 
further advance  taken out in 2000.  The PPI covered her for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  find there  was enough evidence to uphold Mrs Os mis-sale complaint. 
Mrs O disagrees.  She mainly told us that she doesnt recall  PPI being mentioned and it 
wasnt something she needed as she had other means she couldve relied  on to pay her 
mortgage. 
Some of the paperwork  refers to different trading names but as Lloyds Bank PLC is 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint Ill just refer to Lloyds in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint. Heres why I say this.
Looking at the paperwork from each of the sales, I think Lloyds  made Mrs O aware  each 
time that she had a choice about having the PPI it recommended  to her. And, despite  what 
Mrs O remembers  now, when she signed  up for these policies I think  she made an informed 
decision each time to take out the cover.  
what happened  in 1998
PPI wasnt automatically included with Mrs Os mortgage. It was up to her to take steps if 
she wanted to take out the PPI.
Mrs O signed a separate PPI application to have the cover added  on. And at the same time 
Mrs O also completed  the information  needed to set up monthly payment arrangements at 
her bank to cover the cost.
Mrs Os mortgage was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
She was responsible for paying her mortgage  and her home wouldve been at risk if the 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring 
her monthly mortgage repayments were protected even if she couldnt work. So, I can see 
why Mrs O mightve felt PPI was useful.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mrs O wanted to have the benefits  and security of 
having PPI and so it was added to her mortgage  account at her request.
Ref: DRN86259782Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mrs O. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps to make 
sure the cover was suitable for her as well as giving her important policy  information in a 
clear way.
Mrs O told us she wouldve received work  benefits  that included  6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay and she had other insurance and some savings. But this 
doesnt mean that the PPI wasnt suitable  for her. 
Mrs O was eligible for the policy. It wouldve paid out in full for longer than she couldve 
relied on her employer to pay full sick pay - up to 12 months each time she made  a 
successful claim. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay  giving  her a 
useful benefit  at what couldve been  a difficult time,  especially  if Mrs O mightve had extra  
costs as a result of illness or disability. The amount paid to her wouldve more than covered 
her mortgage monthly repayments as it also included some extra to help with other costs.  
The policy wouldve also paid out if shed  lost her job. And she couldve made  repeated 
claims so she wouldve had long term cover for her mortgage.
I dont know if Mrs O wouldve always had savings she could rely on if she wasnt able to 
work. And the policy  couldve paid out for a lot longer than the amount  of savings she 
mentioned wouldve lasted if shed had to rely on these to make her monthly repayments. 
Although she was eligible for death in service  benefit from her employer, PPI provided a 
different sort of cover  and paid out in different circumstances. Also,  life cover and critical 
illness insurance provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances 
to PPI. 
Given the serious problems that can happen when mortgage payments arent paid in full and 
on time, I dont feel that theres enough  information  for me to say that Mrs Os circumstances 
made the PPI recommendation unsuitable.  
Some information Lloyds gave Mrs O about the PPI possibly wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like this affected 
Mrs O. So I dont think its likely that more information about things the policy  didnt cover  
wouldve put her off taking  it out. 
I dont know if Lloyds  gave Mrs O clear  information  about all aspects of the PPI costs. But 
she chose to sign up for the cover when she didnt have to  so she appears to have wanted  
it. And the PPI seems to have been  affordable for her. The cost of the policy  was shown on 
the policy schedule  included with a welcome  letter sent to her and Mrs O couldve queried it 
then if she decided this wasnt  something she wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it 
doesnt look as if that happened.  
Ive kept in mind  also that Mrs O couldve cancelled within 30 days  of the policy  start date 
without having  to pay anything if she didnt want to pay the amount of the monthly premiums. 
And she signed an instruction form to her bank  to cover the cost. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to say that it seems  she was happy at the time to pay for PPI. And as she 
was paying for it monthly, she could cancel it at any time without further  cost,  if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN86259783Overall, I think it unlikely  Mrs O wouldve made a different decision in 1998 even if Lloyds 
had given her better information.  
what happened  in 2000
Mrs O took out a further advance on her mortgage  account in 2000.  She also filled in a 
separate application form to have PPI added on to cover the extra borrowing shed taken 
out. 
So I think its likely that she wanted  the PPI benefits to cover  her extra borrowing. And I can 
understand why. As far as I can see Mrs Os circumstances were broadly the same.  
The new policy  covered  the additional borrowing  shed taken out and provided Mrs O with 
the same  long term protection she already had for her original mortgage.  Mrs O paid extra 
for the additional  cover but theres  nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable for her. She 
continued to be able to take advantage  of all the benefits the policy offered. So I think PPI 
was a suitable recommendation for Mrs O in 2000.
Full details  of the amended cover  shed taken out, including the cost, were sent to Mrs O as 
well as information about her right to cancel the insurance. 
Its understandable  that Mrs O mightve forgotten some details from sales that took place  so 
long ago. But, based on all the information  Ive seen,  I dont find shes  lost out as a result  of 
anything that Lloyds mightve done wrong  when it sold her PPI. This means it doesnt need 
to take any steps  to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8625978