K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Blue Motor Finance Limited  says that it hasnt received a payment from 
a third party that was made to his account. Hes being helped  with his complaint by a 
representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a hire purchase agreement  with Blue Motor Finance 
that he electronically signed in January 2019.  He says that a payment was made  to his 
account by a third party  over the phone in March 2019 but Blue Motor Finance says that it 
wasnt received. 
He complained to Blue Motor Finance and it said that it doesnt take third party payments 
over the phone and that it has searched multiple  times for the funds in its bank account but 
they couldnt be located. Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this 
service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
he was unable to say that Blue Motor Finance had acted unfairly.
Mr Bs representative, on his behalf,  has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. He says that the third partys bank  has confirmed the details of the transaction  
and that the bank statement is more  than sufficient proof that the payment was transacted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had agreed in January 2019  to make 39 monthly payments of £521.83 and a final 
payment of £671.83  for the car to be supplied to him. He says that a payment of £521.83 
was made  to Blue Motor Finance by phone in early March 2019  by a third party  on his behalf 
and hes provided  a copy of an account  statement from the third partys business account  
which shows that payment. 
Blue Motor  Finance says that it doesnt  take third party payments over the phone  and that it 
has searched multiple times for the payment in its bank account but it hasnt been found. 
The investigator asked  Mr Bs representative  to provide an audit trail for the payment and 
said that the third partys  bank would be able to provide information  which  could then be 
provided to Blue Motor  Finance so that it could  re-check its records. 
Mr Bs representative says that the paying  bank has said that it has no formatted letter for 
the request but has given information over the phone to confirm the transaction  date,  time,  
number and amount.  That information  has been  provided to Blue Motor Finance which says 
that its spoken with the third partys bank  and that a full investigation was completed in 
March 2019 and no payment for £521.83 was ever received. 
Im not persuaded that Mr B, or his representative,  has provided enough evidence to show 
that a payment of £521.83 was made  by the third party  to Blue Motor  Finance and I consider 
that its fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to require Mr B to make the missing 
payment. Other  payments  due to Blue Motor Finance from Mr B have also been  missed and 
Ref: DRN86594202its started taking action to recover from him the arrears on his account   and its recorded 
adverse information  on his credit file.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Blue Motor  Finance has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr B about these  payments. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to credit £521.83 to his account, to 
pay him any compensation, to remove any adverse information from his credit  file or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8659420