K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) did not carry 
out the correct  affordability checks before approving  her loan applications.
background
Miss C was approved  for six loans from Satsuma  between January 2017 and April 2019 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment* Due Repaid
1 31 Jan 2017 £400 8m £100.00 1 Oct 2017 On time
2 4 May 2017 £440 9m £197.68 1 Feb 2018 23 Dec 2017
3 9 Oct 2017 £500 12m £180.68 1 Nov 2018 23 Dec 2017
4 1 Oct 2018 £400 5m £140.80 1 Mar 2019 19 Mar 2019
3 missed pmts
5 5 Nov 2018 £650 12m £248.70 1 Dec 2019 19 Jan 2019
1 missed pmt
6 6 Apr 2019 £2,000 12m £332.00 1 May 2020 Outstanding
* Total repayment on overlapping loans
Miss C says better  checks  would have  shown she had multiple short-term  loans  and was 
using one lender to repay another. She says she was struggling  to pay priority  bills due to 
the high repayments on the loans.
Satsuma says it asked  Miss C about her income and expenditure at the time of each loan 
application and used external data sources to verify  the figures.  It says it applied additional 
safeguards to Miss Cs declared expenditure and checked her credit  file. It says none of the 
information indicated  the loans were  unaffordable.
In addition, Satsuma  acknowledged that Miss C complained about the lending  before it 
approved loan 6. It agreed for loan 6 to be considered as part of the same complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. She found that the 
repayment on loan 6 was a significant proportion of Miss Cs income  and, therefore,  it was 
unlikely she would be able to sustainably repay the loan over 12 months.  She recommended  
that Satsuma should  refund any interest and charges that Miss C had paid on loan 6 (plus  
8% statutory interest) and that it should  write-off any unpaid interest and charges. She 
added that Satsuma should  remove any negative  information about the loan from Miss Cs 
credit file.
Satsuma responded  to say, in summary, that it was prepared  to offer in line with the 
adjudicators assessment.
As Miss C didnt respond,  the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN84676382Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, 
information from a credit file and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Loans 1 to 3
Im satisfied Satsuma did enough checks before it approved Miss Cs first three  loans. The 
checks showed that Miss C had enough disposable income to afford the repayments  and 
there was nothing to indicate the repayments were unsustainable. Miss Cs repayment 
history was good, so I cannot conclude Satsuma did anything  wrong by approving  loans 
1 to 3.
Ref: DRN84676383Loans 4 to 5
Nine months after Miss C repaid loan 3, she applied for loan 4. As there was a significant 
break in lending, I consider it reasonable for Satsuma  to consider Miss C was not reliant on 
such  borrowing and, therefore,  Im satisfied it did enough checks  before it approved loan 4.
But I think Satsuma should have done  better checks before it approved  loan 5. I say that 
because Miss C was showing signs she may be struggling to manage her money   shed  
missed three payments on loan 4 before settling it after the due date. But I cant see 
anything in the available information that indicated better checks  would  have led Satsuma to 
find loan 5 was unaffordable.
So I cant say Satsuma  acted irresponsibly by approving loans 4 and 5.
Loan 6
The repayments on loan 6 were £332 per month. This was a significant proportion  of 
Miss Cs £1,300 monthly income, so I find it unlikely she could sustainably repay the loan 
without borrowing elsewhere. Indeed,  Miss C was showing signs that she was already 
struggling financially. Shed missed  payments  on both loans 4 and 5 and, in January 2019, 
shed requested a repayment plan from Satsuma for the loans.
As loan 6 was for significantly more money than any of Miss Cs previous loans, and shed  
already complained abut the unaffordability of her previous loans by then, I consider 
Satsuma acted irresponsibly by continuing to approve further  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 6 and Satsuma should  put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma) should do the following,  as it has offered to do:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss C paid on loan 6;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 6, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Miss C; 
Remove any negative  information about loan 6 from Miss Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If Satsuma 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8467638