K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided to him by Ellis Bates Financial Solutions Limited.
background
In early 2018 Mr C was looking to use his pension  benefits to pay off his existing  mortgage  
and make use of his remaining personal allowance  for tax year 2017/18. And he sought 
advice from his independent financial adviser  (IFA)  at Ellis Bates. His original  adviser was no 
longer with the company  so a new IFA was appointed to assist  him. 
In early March 2018, Mr C met with his new IFA and a fact find was completed.  This 
recorded Mr Cs circumstances as:
61 years old and in good  health
divorced,  no dependents 
recently unemployed and using savings  to supplement his income  
approximately £14,500 owed on an interest  only mortgage
had two personal pension plans, one with a 9.78% guaranteed  annuity rate (GAR)
£42,000  in savings  and investments  including  £6,500 in an emergency fund; and a
medium  low attitude to risk profile.
Mr Cs interest  only mortgage was ending in May 2018 and his mortgage provider was 
unwilling to re-mortgage  or grant an extension. So Mr C needed a lump sum to repay his 
mortgage in full. 
On 20 March Ellis Bates provided Mr C with its recommendation letter, titled Your Flexi-
Access Drawdown Report. In this report,  Ellis Bates  advised  Mr C to take 25% tax free cash  
from his non-GAR pension plan, transfer  the remainder to a flexi-access  arrangement with 
another provider  and then take an additional £9,500   the balance of his personal allowance 
for tax year 2017/18   in taxable  income.  This report explained that altogether  Mr C would 
receive about £15,300 from this pension; enough  to cover the cost of his mortgage with the 
rest to be used for a holiday with his fianc.  
Several documents  were  enclosed with the report and were listed  as such on the second 
page of the reports cover letter. Mr C was asked  to complete and return  three of these  
documents: a client declaration, Ellis Bates adviser  charge  agreement, and the application  
for the flexi-access  plan. The remaining documents were included for Mr C to keep with his 
own records. These included: the flexi-access  plan provider charges summary  and flexi-
access plan illustration, key features document and provider brochure. 
The flexi-access plan application was returned  to Ellis Bates, signed and dated 22 March. 
Along with the application, the client declaration  and adviser  charge  agreement were also 
returned signed and dated  22 March. Above the signature was the following statement:
We acknowledge receipt of your report dated 20th March 2018  and confirm that we have 
read and understood the contents therein. 
The adviser charge  agreement  detailed  initial and ongoing adviser charges to be paid from 
Mr Cs flexi-access  plan.  Mr Cs signature appeared below a client  declaration  which 
authorised Ellis Bates to claim the agreed  fees.  
Ref: DRN87390012By letter dated 28 March it was confirmed that Mr Cs non-GAR plan had been transferred  to 
the new provider.  
On March 30 Ellis Bates received information  about  Mr Cs GAR plan from the provider. On 
3 April Ellis Bates provided Mr C with a written  report  of its recommendation to take full 
advantage of the GAR by utilising the entire fund value to purchase  an annuity. A benefit  
instruction form, new client declaration and new adviser charge agreement were  enclosed to 
be signed and returned to Ellis Bates.  Further documents including a copy of the charge 
agreement, an invoice and annuity key features document were enclosed  for Mr Cs records.  
The charge  agreement provided  for Ellis Bates to receive fees of 2.25% of the fund value. 
Mr C subsequently  received his tax free cash payment from his non-GAR plan and the 
income payment,  net of tax, he requested.  HMRC  deducted approximately  £3000  in income 
tax from the payment and Mr C had to reclaim it. As a result Mr C had to use some  of his 
savings to pay off his mortgage. He said he received  his tax refund on 26 June. 
Mr C said hed also intended  to take a further  £5,000 for a holiday with his fianc.  But when 
he learned hed be taxed on this amount he changed his mind. Instead, Mr C now wanted  to 
take 25% of his GAR  fund as tax free cash and use the remainder to purchase  an annuity 
utilising the GAR offered. Ellis Bates subsequently  revised its advice about  the GAR plan 
and issued an addendum letter on 14 June  setting out the new advice. Updated  versions of 
the all of the previous enclosures  were  sent with this letter. The revised adviser charge 
agreement showed  the fee charged  for this piece of advice was £750.  
I understand that Mr C went to Ellis Bates  office  on 22 June.  Neither his adviser  nor her 
assistant were available so another Ellis Bates employee helped  him complete the 
necessary forms to take benefits from his GAR plan. At this time Mr C also complained  
about the service  he received. And he was unhappy  that he was being asked to pay £750 for 
the revised advice  because  he says his adviser  told him he wouldnt be charged. 
After this meeting,  Ellis Bates decided to terminate its relationship with Mr C and on the 
following Monday,  25 June, sent him a letter resigning as his financial adviser with 
immediate effect. The letter  also said that Ellis Bates had processed his GAR plan 
application forms at nil charge and wouldnt have further dealings with Mr C as a client. 
In the meantime, Mr C brought his concerns to our service.  When he initially  contacted us, 
Mr Cs complaint was solely about the £750 charge; he didnt yet know  Ellis Bates had 
waived their fee. He told us later that that he wasnt told about all of the charges; particularly 
a £191 income  release charge from his new flexi-access plan and four additional charges 
deducted from this plan after his relationship with Ellis Bates had ended. He said he never  
agreed to any of these  charges, and even  though  he wouldve still started the flexi-access 
plan, he thought Ellis Bates werent  transparent and had violated their duty of care to him. 
He also told us that the only reason Ellis Bates waived the £750 was because it had done 
something wrong. 
Ellis Bates told us, in summary, that Mr C was an aggressive and demanding client. It 
eventually got to the point  where staff members were fearful of meeting with him when  he 
came to the office.  As a result, Ellis Bates  decided it no longer wanted to be Mr Cs IFA. It 
said it waived its fees in order to avoid dealing  with Mr C further.   
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld.  
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN87390013After the complaint was passed to me for a decision, Mr C got in touch and said to resolve  
his complaint, all he now wants is a refund of the £191.00 income release charge and the 
four charges  taken out after his business  relationship with Ellis Bates ended. He would also 
like compensation  for the stress and inconvenience  hes suffered because of Ellis Bates. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr C has provided substantial  comments 
to us throughout this complaint. While  I may not have referenced in this final decision 
everything he has said, I can assure Mr C that I have reviewed and considered all of his 
comments. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but after taking everything into account, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for much the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Mr C said he never  agreed to pay the £191  income release charge. And hes unhappy  that 
further fees were  deducted from his flexi-access  plan after Ellis Bates stopped  acting has his 
financial adviser. He asserts  that Ellis Bates wasnt transparent about all of the flexi-access  
charges and claims it breached its duty of care to him as a result. Ive considered this, but 
looking at the documents  Mr C wouldve  been  provided at the time of advice, I dont agree 
that he wasnt told about these charges. 
As I wasnt present when  the advice was given, I cant know what Mr C was and wasnt  told 
in the face to face meetings with his financial adviser. Although  I consider it unlikely, it may 
very well be that his adviser  didnt mention the income release charge. But Mr C admits  to 
receiving the 20 March suitability report titled Your Flexi-Access Drawdown Report.  Ive 
looked through this and agree that the £191 income  release charge is not specifically 
addressed. However,  accompanying  this report were  several  other documents,  including a 
plan illustration. The reports cover letter specifically says:
I have provided you with a Royal London Key Features Document  and illustration. 
This documentation is important and contains information regarding  the product which I 
have recommended, particularly  with regards to the products charges, aims, the 
commitment which it entails, together with its legal and tax status, the remuneration 
payable and your cancellation rights. [emphasis added]
Section 9 of the illustration is called Charges. It explains that there  is a charge for using the 
income release  facility  of £191.00.  So I think Ellis Bates did make him aware of this charge.  
But, even  if I agreed Ellis Bates  didnt  tell him about the income  release  charge, Mr C admits  
he wouldnt  have acted  differently. So I cant say Ellis Bates  caused  him to lose out.
Section 9 also details  the initial adviser charge of £179.28 and ongoing charges of 1.00% 
each year of the plan value built up from the transfer payment, due monthly until your 
chosen retirement date.
Notably, Mr C signed a client  declaration  confirming  hed read and understood the contents  
of the report, which would necessarily  include the documents referred to by and enclosed 
with it. So, while I agree the report  itself doesnt  specifically discuss the income  release 
Ref: DRN87390014charge, it does direct Mr C to the illustration and notes that it contains  important information 
particularly with regards to the products charges. It wouldve been for Mr C to review the 
information and satisfy himself that hed read and understood everything hed been provided  
before signing  the declaration confirming as much.  Therefore,  I cant agree that he wasnt 
told about the £191.00 income release charge. 
And the four further adviser charges deducted  from his flexi-access  plan appear to be the 
ongoing charges as described in the illustration and adviser charge agreement, up to point 
when Ellis Bates ceased being their client. From  everything Ive been  provided, its clear Mr 
C was made  aware of these charges and actually signed a separate  declaration agreeing  to 
them. So I cant say that Ellis Bates  have  done  anything wrong in recovering these fees from 
the flexi-access plan as agreed.
I appreciate Mr C is frustrated that things  didnt progress exactly  as hed have liked. It seems 
Ellis Bates was also unhappy  with how things proceeded. So much so, that Ellis Bates 
decided to forego collecting the charges it was owed for the advice it provided Mr C about 
his GAR plan. But contrary to what Mr C claims, this doesnt mean Ellis Bates necessarily 
did something wrong. Regardless  of fault, its clear  the business relationship between them 
broke down.  Unfortunately, this can happen. Which  clients  to take on, the services  it 
provides and the charges  it decides to pursue are all issues to be determined  by Ellis Bates 
within its commercial discretion. And I cant see that Ellis Bates used its discretion unfairly or 
unreasonably in this case. 
In fact, Mr C has benefitted from the services  Ellis Bates provided  him, including  two 
recommendations about his GAR  plan and completing the process  for him to take benefits 
from this plan, at no cost to him.  Since Im not persuaded  Ellis Bates did something  wrong,  I 
dont consider it fair or reasonable  to ask it to do anything more.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8739001