K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the standard of workmanship  following repairs  carried out by 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) in respect of their home  insurance  claim for water 
damage.
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs B reported  a claim to RSA following their discovery of a leak in 
their loft room. This caused damage  to the room  and the ceiling and floor below. RSA 
appointed contractors to carry out drying and repairs  to the water  damaged  areas.
Following completion of the repairs after Mr B inspected the loft area and discovered a large  
hole in the floor and that flooring had been removed under the partition wall so it was not 
supported. He thought the joists  had been badly patched. The loft was cold and missing 
insulation, and there were  cracks in the plasterwork.
RSA sent its contractors back to the property twice, to try to fix the issues but Mr and Mrs B 
were still dissatisfied. RSA agreed to waive the excess  on the policy  (of £250) and to pay 
£250 compensation to rectify  the insulation issues. Its contractors essentially denied  liability 
and said that they had put the property back as it was. They said the problems with cold and 
springiness of the floor were related to the age of the property. It also said the cracking was 
likely due to thermal movement. Nevertheless it was prepared  to consider any report 
Mr and Mrs B obtained on the work and any likely cost of putting it right, if its contractors  
were found  to be at fault. Mr and Mrs B were  at that stage unwilling to pay for any report and 
believed they would  have difficulty in getting another builder  to look at the work.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that RSA or Mr and Mrs B obtain an 
independent report  on the repairs and as necessary  carry  out any work to correct them. 
Mr and Mrs B were  reluctant  for RSA to do this as they didnt believe that any report  
prepared for RSA would  be independent. They proceeded to obtain a report  from a builder.  
He found that the flooring  had been  cut incorrectly leaving a large  hole, packing  and 
supports to the original floor joists had been knocked out, timbers were  installed incorrectly  
and cut too short and the loft insulation had been removed.
RSA reviewed the report but pointed out that no estimate had been provided  nor any photos 
to support Mr and Mrs Bs position. It said that the payment made dealt with the insulation 
and that repairs  it completed wouldve been  carried out in a similar  manner to the original 
work.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that RSA should rectify the problems set out in the 
report, either by sending  out new contractors or by paying a cash  settlement to Mr and Mrs 
B, to enable  them to get the work done. I also said it should pay the cost of their builders 
report and pay £250 compensation. As RSA had told us it had made a payment of £250 for 
the loft insulation, included in the builders report,  it could  deduct that from any cash 
settlement or if it did the repairs not demand its return  from Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B responded as follows:
They didnt want RSA to send any further contractors and would like a cash settlement.
Their builder had sent an updated report and a quote for £840  to carry out the work.
Ref: DRN81520982The £250 sent by RSA wasnt for loft insulation but for various  snagging issues they had 
to carry out themselves.
RSA disagreed with the change in outcome and recommendations. And also that their 
contractors were entirely at fault for the issues with the loft conversion/repairs. To resolve 
matters, itd consistently requested Mr and Mrs B to provide  an independent report/quote  to 
rectify the damage,  which  hadnt been  forthcoming  and had already  used  2 separate 
contractors, so a third contractor wouldnt necessarily resolve  matters.  It also hadnt  received 
a quotation from Mr B to consider or rectify  any further workmanship issues  that had been 
identified. It further  said it hadnt been responsible  for the delays and didnt accept that it 
should pay any further compensation
I arranged for a copy of the updated  report and quote from Mr and Mrs Bs builder to be sent 
to RSA. It hasnt made any further  comment.  
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
Clearly  this matter has moved on since our investigator issued his view, which was that 
RSA or Mr and Mrs B obtain a report. They  have  now done this but since  RSAs position  has 
been that it would only reconsider the matter if such a report  was obtained its difficult for it 
now to reject that report.
Ive seen the notes and reports  from RSAs  contractors.  At one stage  it recommended  that 
the problem with the building joists be investigated and rectified.  I think  that the problems 
Mr and Mrs B now report with their property were caused by the repairs done by RSAs 
contractors.
Mr and Mrs Bs builder  said:
The original tongue and groove flooring was cut in the incorrect positions  between floor 
joists leaving a hole right through to the steel support I beam thus weakening  the original 
floor to which the bathroom/bedroom  partition directly above is built from causing  movement 
and cracking.
During the first floor ceiling being removed  previously, packing and supports to the original
joists above had been knocked out from the below supporting wall creating the bounce in
the loft floor.
3x2 inch timbers were  installed incorrectly and cut too short to use as timber noggins.
Loft Insulation  previously removed wasn't  replaced creating heat loss and cold drafts.
Ref: DRN81520983Unfortunately he didnt take photos but Mr and Mrs B have taken numerous photos of the 
damage and RSA has returned  to the property  to look at the damage.  Mr and Mrs B say their 
builder has given an estimate but they havent shown it to us.
My view is that RSA should  rectify the problems as identified above. The builder didnt 
mention the cracking to the plasterwork but this is clear from the photos. Whether this is due 
to thermal movement or the quality of repairs its the sort of issue usually dealt with as 
snagging. So RSA should deal with this as well. I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs reluctance 
to have the work done themselves. But I dont think it would be appropriate to send back  the 
old contractor. RSA should either appoint a new contractor to carry out the work listed in 
Mr and Mrs Bs builders  report, and the cracking,  or (at Mr and Mrs Bs option) pay them   a 
cash settlement to have  the repairs carried out by a contractor of their choice. In the latter  
case, RSA should pay them the reasonable cost of their contractor doing the work, rather  
than its preferred contractors rates.
If Mr and Mrs B want to consider a cash settlement I would invite  them  to supply  their 
builders estimate in response to this provisional decision.
I think RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs B a further £250  compensation  for distress  and 
inconvenience. I note that it has paid £250  towards  the cost of insulation. It can either  deduct  
this from any cash  settlement or if it carries  out the work including the insulation, it doesnt 
need to pay this as a separate  sum.
RSA should also reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the cost of their report, on production of an 
invoice from them.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Bs builders report isnt the independent inspection that RSA 
had in mind.  But as RSA says, the result of another inspection  may not be accepted by the 
parties.
I have to bear in mind  that our function is to try and resolve issues  informally  between the 
parties. And I see no reason not to accept Mr and Mrs Bs builders report  and quote as a fair 
summary of the remedial  work to be done  following RSAs contractors repairs.  Ive also 
taken into account  the cost asked for for this - £840.  I think further inspections and attempts 
to cost out the work RSA might be found responsible  for are likely to involve far more wasted 
costs and the complaint not being resolved. I propose to require RSA to pay the £840 to 
Mr and Mrs B so they can arrange the repairs.
So far as the compensation is concerned, I think the proposed  payment of a further £250 is 
reasonable. Any previous payments of compensation didnt take account of the issues Ive 
dealt with in this decision. With regard  to payment, the £250  paid was said to be for the 
miscellaneous snagging/additional painting/tile work and to also box the pipes in. RSA said 
that included the loft insulation, but on review I dont think it was intended to include that. Or 
if it did it doesnt appear me that that payment would have  been  sufficient. I will require RSA 
to pay the compensation without any deduction.
My provisional findings, except in so far as Ive noted alterations to them  above  are now final 
and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to
Ref: DRN81520984Pay to Mr and Mrs B £840 in payment of their builders  cost for remedial repairs as set 
out above.
pay Mr and Mrs B the cost of their builders report, if charged, on production of an 
invoice.
pay £250 compensation.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8152098