K820x#14complaint
Miss P is unhappy that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has not agreed to reinstate her life cover and 
critical illness policy, which she took out to protect  her mortgage. 
background
In January 2018, Miss P contacted the HSBC mortgage department  after she was struggling 
to meet  her payments.  She told HSBC that she was off work and was due to receive  a large  
redundancy pay-out in the near future. During  the call, options were discussed to help Miss 
P with the arrears  on her mortgage  until she received the pay-out.
In May 2018, the premium for Miss Ps life policy wasnt  paid as the direct  debt was rejected. 
HSBC wrote to Miss P on 4 June 2018, to say the premium was due and if payment wasnt 
made within 14 days the policy would lapse and the cover would end. On the 3 July 2018, 
HSBC wrote again saying the policy had now lapsed but it could  be reinstated  without further 
information if payment  was made  within seven days.  As no payment was made  the policy 
lapsed. 
Miss P contacted HSBC on 17 July 2018,  requesting  the policy be reinstated.  Initially,  HSBC 
said she was too late for the policy to be reinstated. Miss P raised a complaint  in August 
2018. On 17 August 2018, HSBC agreed to reinstate  the policy and offered Miss P £50 for 
the trouble it had caused her. HSBC sent out a reinstatement pack  for Miss P to complete  
this included a health questionnaire.  
Miss P returned the reinstatement  forms but rejected  the offer made  by HSBC. She said that 
she had informed HSBC  of her financial situation  and was told she could ignore any letters 
relating to arrears.  HSBC  wrote again to her on 21 September 2018 and explained that the 
medical questionnaire  was required  for it to consider the reinstatement.  It did increase the 
offer made to Miss P to recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused.  A new offer 
of £200 was made, which Miss P accepted.  
After reviewing the medical  information and contacting  Miss Ps doctor, HSBC  made  a 
decision in December 2018 not to reinstate  the policy. Miss P remained unhappy with this 
decision and asked  this service to look into her complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. He acknowledge that 
HSBC hadnt always given Miss P clear information  about how the policy could be reinstated 
but overall he thought its decision not to reinstate  the policy  was fair. 
Miss P didnt agree. She said:
-she did make an arrangement with HSBC  and wasnt  advised she needed to contact  
any other departments; 
-she paid her premiums on time for nearly  20 years  and now after a significant 
financial upheaval, made an arrangement with the bank and was told it would 
reinstate the policy;
-shes unhappy that she is now left with no life cover whatsoever - this has left her in a 
very difficult financial situation and caused her stress. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  referred  to me to make  a 
decision.
Ref: DRN87573552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered whether HSBC has acted fairly in allowing the policy  to lapse. Ive 
taken into account  the letters it sent Miss P warning her the policy  would lapse if she didnt 
make payments. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions  of her policy. And Ive also 
considered Miss Ps comments that she had contacted HSBC about  her financial situation 
and that it told her to ignore any letters she received about arrears. 
Ive come to the conclusion that HSBC have  acted fairly when the policy  lapsed,  Ill explain 
why. HSBC attempted to collect the May 2018 premium  on two occasions  without success.  It 
then wrote to Miss P in June and July 2018  explaining the consequences of premiums not 
being paid. The policy terms also explain what will happen if the premiums arent paid  
specifically they say if any premium is not paid within 28 days  of it being  due the policy will 
lapse without value  and will terminate.  So Im satisfied HSBC  did provide clear  information 
about what would happen if premiums werent  paid.
I accept that Miss P had discussed her financial situation with HSBC in the early  part of 2018  
but this was with the mortgage department. Ive listened to the calls she had with HSBC  in 
January and June  2018. These  calls focus  on Miss Ps ability to meet her mortgage 
payments and there is no mention of the life policy  in either  call. So while I do empathise  
with Miss Ps situation, I dont think it is reasonable to assume from these calls that the life 
policy premiums were  part of any arrangement agreed.  I also dont think  HSBC had a 
responsibility to tell Miss P to contact  other  departments. I note Miss P did continue to pay 
the premiums for several more months after the first call, so again suggesting that the policy 
premiums werent part of any agreement. 
Next, Ive considered  whether HSBC has acted  fairly  in its decision not to reinstate the 
policy. The information  HSBC has given Miss P about the reinstatement of the policy  hasnt 
always been correct  and this has caused her distress during a difficult period in her life. For 
that reason,  I think it was fair for HSBC to make  an offer to recognise the impact  of the errors 
during the handling  of the reinstatement. I note Miss P has accepted  this offer,  so I wont 
comment further other than to say I think the offer was fair in the circumstances. 
Ive again looked at the terms of the policy to see in what  circumstances a lapsed policy  can 
be reinstated. In summary, the policy  says within three months of the due date of the first 
unpaid premium, HSBC  will consider reinstating the policy. It goes on to say there  is no 
obligation to reinstate and it will be subject to evidence being provided  to show  continuing 
good health. Miss P requested the policy be reinstated on 17 July 2018, which was within  
three months of the first unpaid premium. While it didnt initially agree to consider the 
reinstatement, HSBC did eventually and I dont  think the delay prejudiced  the chance of a 
positive reinstatement. HSBC gathered information about Miss Ps current health from her 
doctor. After  reviewing the medical  information,  HSBC decided it would not be reinstating the 
policy. I understand Miss Ps unhappiness in this outcome, but I think  HSBC has acted 
reasonably and in line with policy terms when  making this decision.  For this reason, I dont 
think it is appropriate for me to ask HSBC to reinstate the policy.
I know this will disappoint Miss P and I do appreciate  the difficult  situation she now finds 
herself in but I dont  think HSBC has acted unfairly  in its decision not to reinstate her policy.
Ref: DRN87573553my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8757355