K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a ten-year interest-only 
mortgage in 2005. Mr P is also unhappy that the valuation failed to mention that his property 
is of non-traditional  construction, which  has led to Mr P having  difficulty selling it.
To settle  the complaint, Mr P wants HSBC to cancel  the mortgage  and reimburse  all the 
money hes paid towards it since he took it out.
background
In February 2005  Mr P was purchasing a leasehold  property and applied to HSBC for a 
mortgage. The property  was part of a development which involved conversion of a former 
industrial building, as well as new-build  properties.  Mr Ps property  was part of the new-build  
section of the site.
The purchase price was £129,995, but with a builders incentive of £18,995.  Before the 
mortgage offer was issued a valuation was carried  out for HSBC by a surveyor,  who was a 
Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. He valued the property at £130,000 
once the build was completed. 
The valuation report says:
The purpose of this valuation report  is to enable the bank to assess  the security  
offered by the property for the proposed loan. This report is not a structural survey 
and must  not be relied upon  to identify any structural defects  which may be present 
in the property. Even where defects are mentioned in the report, there may still be 
other unidentified defects  present. Additionally, services have not been  tested.
If you are proposing to purchase the property and you wish to be satisfied as to the 
condition of it, you must have a surveyors detailed inspection and report  of your own 
before deciding whether to enter into a contract
As far as I know, Mr P did not get his own surveyor to inspect the property before he 
purchased it.
A mortgage offer was issued  on 16 February 2005, on a non-advised basis.  This was in 
accordance with regulated selling standards at the time. Mr P borrowed £103,500 on an 
interest-only basis over a ten-year term. The purchase of the property and the mortgage 
completed in early March  2005. Its unclear whether the property was rented out or occupied 
by Mr P.
The mortgage term came  to an end in March  2015 and I understand the outstanding  balance 
has not been repaid to HSBC. Legal  action is currently on hold pending the outcome of this 
complaint.
In 2018 Mr P complained to HSBC that the mortgage  had been  mis-sold. He said that the 
adviser had failed to complete a fact-find,  his attitude to risk hadnt been  established,  and no 
other options, such as a repayment mortgage,  were discussed with him. Mr P said that he 
wasnt asked to provide  any proof of income, as this was a self-certified mortgage.
Ref: DRN88049542Mr P also said that a potential buyer for the property had a valuation  report  which said that 
the property wasnt  suitable security due to the type of construction, specifically in relation to 
the roof. Mr P said that the valuer made no mention of this at all when carrying out the 
property inspection.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. The bank explained to Mr P that this was a non-advised 
sale so there  was no need  for the adviser  to establish Mr Ps attitude to risk or to conduct a 
fact-find. The bank  also explained that different lenders have  different  criteria on what  they 
consider to be suitable security. HSBC  considered  the property  to be suitable  security, and 
that these criteria can change.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr P referred  his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator  looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
was satisfied that the valuation was carried out by an independent  valuer acting for HSBC  
and that HSBC was entitled to rely on this.
The investigator also didnt think the mortgage  had been mis-sold. She noted that this was a 
non-advised sale, and that this was allowed at the time, as was self-certification of income.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. Hes made some detailed  comments in response, which I will summarise:
Although the surveyor might  not be an employee of HSBC, there was nothing 
independent about  the relationship between  HSBC and the surveyor.  Mr P wasnt even  
aware of the identity  of the surveyor.
Has HSBC disclosed the instruction letter sent to the surveyor? Mr P wouldnt be 
surprised if the surveyor had a contract with HSBC to provide services  on a regular  
basis. This is not the independent provision  of a service as the investigator implied.
The single most important issue is whether the property is mortgageable. HSBC has 
ignored this point and the investigator  hasnt  addressed it either.
HSBC is threatening  legal  action to repossess the property and pay any shortfall. But this 
situation is as a result of HSBCs surveyor having  done a woefully poor job.
It is unfair for HSBC  to try to rely on its argument  that this was an independent  surveyor 
and so Mr P cant look to HSBC for his losses. This is exactly the sort of nonsense  that 
the Ombudsman is empowered to protect  consumers from.
Mr P didnt  know at the time he purchased the property that the surveyor had failed to 
spot a fundamental issue which would later hamper a sale of the property.
He has no idea what a non-advised mortgage  is. He didnt advise himself about his own 
attitude to risk, or the various ramifications of taking out an interest-only  mortgage rather 
than a repayment mortgage. 
Self-certifying income is not the same  as advising himself about  a mortgage.
HSBCs inability to keep proper  records is now being  used  to its advantage, as this is 
being used to support the argument  that HSBC  hasnt  acted  unreasonably.
Ref: DRN88049543This is exactly  the sort of David v Goliath situation the ombudsman  is supposed to 
rebalance, with a giant corporation seeking to extract endless funds from the little guy 
in a rigged system.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining  that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is independent and 
impartial. We are not consumer champions  or protectors, and we do not act either  for 
consumers or the financial businesses about  which they are complaining. My role is to weigh 
up the evidence  and decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mis-sale of the mortgage:  The events giving rise to the complaint took place 16 years ago. 
Mr P says he is concerned that HSBC no longer has a mortgage file. But HSBC isnt 
required to retain documentation  indefinitely, but, as I will explain below, there  are some 
documents which HSBC  didnt  have in 2005, and wasnt required to have.
In 2005 HSBC (and all other mortgage lenders)  were able to offer mortgage products on a 
non-advised basis. There was nothing untoward about this, but what it means is that a fact-
find wasnt necessary and so that is why a fact-find  isnt contained in the available 
documentation from 2005. In the circumstances, I find there is nothing sinister  in the fact that 
HSBC doesnt  have a fact-find; it simply didnt  need one.
Im satisfied that in 2005 a non-advised mortgage  for a newly-self-employed person on a 
self-certified basis was not something out of the ordinary. It was in line with mortgage 
regulations in place at the time. I appreciate the regulations have since changed, but that 
doesnt mean that HSBC did anything wrong  in offering a mortgage on this basis  in 2005.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Valuation: The valuation was carried out by an independent surveyor.  Ive noted what Mr P 
has said about his perception of the independence of the surveyor.  Im satisfied the surveyor  
was not an employee  of HSBC and was independent of HSBC. The banks duty of care in 
relation to the valuation was to instruct a suitably-qualified  person to carry out the valuation.  
Having done that, HSBC  was entitled to rely on the valuation when reaching its lending  
decision. Mr P isnt entitled  to see HSBCs instructions to the surveyor  (even if these were 
still available after 16 years) because the terms of reference under which  HSBC  instructs its 
professional advisers  are generally confidential.
A valuation  for mortgage purposes  is a brief inspection of the property in order for the 
surveyor to assess whether the property is suitable  security for a mortgage.  I wouldnt  expect  
the surveyor to go into the roof space to inspect the construction of the roof, as that is 
outside the scope of a basic valuation. The valuation was solely  for HSBCs own purposes,  
and this is clear in the report. It was always up to Mr P to have his own,  more  detailed, 
survey of the property  carried out, if hed wanted  to, including  an inspection of the roof 
space. 
Ref: DRN88049544Ive noted what  Mr P has said about his difficulty selling the property in 2018. But even if one 
lender in 2018 wouldnt offer a mortgage on the property, this doesnt  mean  that the property 
didnt fit lending criteria in 2005. It seems from online  sales  data that the development sold 
very quickly in 2005, which suggests there  were  no issues in relation to the construction of 
the building  at that time. Lenders  change their criteria from time to time, as theyre  entitled  to 
do, and this can lead to some lenders deciding not to offer a mortgage on a particular type of 
construction. Other lenders might be happy with lending on the same  property.  Thats a 
matter for each lenders  commercial judgment.
Overall, my conclusion is that the valuation was a basic mortgage valuation for HSBCs 
purposes only, and that there is no basis on which I can find the surveyor  owed a duty of 
care to Mr P in relation to this. 
This means  that Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping  for. I understand that the value of the 
property has fallen  since he purchased it in 2005.  That is largely as a result of the recession 
in 2008, as well as market forces. But the mortgage expired six years ago and HSBC  is 
entitled to be repaid,  as per the terms of the contract.  Mr P might  find it helpful  to take some 
advice from a solicitor or a debt advisory service such as Citizens Advice, StepChange  or 
Shelter. We can provide him with contact details for those agencies, if hed like us to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8804954