K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way NewDay Ltd handled a chargeback request. To put things 
right, he wants them  to refund him the money he was looking to reclaim.
background
In 2016 Mr Bs wife entered  a contract  to receive  goods and services from a company I will 
refer to as Company A. Mr B paid for this using his credit card which was issued by 
NewDay. The payment  was split over 2 transactions made on 22 August 2016 and 29 
September 2016. In total he paid £2,200.
Mr B doesnt  think that Company A fulfilled their contract  with his wife, and in June 2017 he 
contacted NewDay  and asked to make  a claim to receive his money back under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. NewDay explained this wasnt  possible as the contract 
wasnt in his name. But they told him they could instead raise a chargeback.
In August  2017  Mr B received a refund on his card, but he was told it could  be reversed if the 
merchant challenged  the chargeback within 30 days. However when he called NewDay back 
after 30 days  he was told the merchant actually had 45 days  to make a challenge. 
Mr B called again on 17 October  2017, 49 days after the chargeback request was made. 
NewDay told him the merchant hadnt challenged the chargeback.  Mr B says he asked them 
to double check this, and they confirmed  again  they hadnt received  any correspondence 
from the merchant. NewDays advisor also told Mr B that if there was now a claim he 
wouldnt be impacted  by it.
The money was credited  to Mr Bs bank account on 23 October 2017. Mr B called NewDay 
to confirm he could  spend the money. His first call got cut off, but on the second call 
NewDay told him that they had now received some correspondence from the merchant  and 
a repudiation document was in the post to him.
Mr B completed this document and returned it to NewDay. They  then sent him a letter  asking 
for further  information,  which  he replied to within the required time limit. He didnt hear 
anything back from them. But £2,200 was re-debited from his card.  
When Mr B called NewDay to complain he was told he hadnt provided the information they 
asked for and he was now outside  the time limit to do so. But they did offer him £150 for the 
poor service hed received from them when they incorrectly  told him that his refund could no 
longer be reversed. 
Mr B is unhappy with how NewDay managed his chargeback request and his complaint. He 
asked them to refund  him the £2,200.
Our investigator agreed that the service Mr B was given  by NewDay  was poor,  but felt the 
£150 compensation they had offered for this was adequate. They also thought that NewDay  
had followed  the rules of the chargeback process  correctly when they decided  not to take 
Mr Bs request any further. So they said NewDay didnt have to refund him the £2,200.  
Ref: DRN82641642Mr B felt this was unfair,  so the case has been passed to me review. He says NewDay  have 
suggested they would have submitted a chargeback  request for a partial refund if hed given 
them the right information.  And he says he would have done so if it was clear from their letter 
what they were requesting. He calculates that he would have made a claim for £662.81. So 
he thinks NewDay should pay him this amount of money. 
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr B will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking NewDay to pay him any further compensation. Ill explain why.
Chargeback is a process which  allows  customers  to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there is a problem with the goods  or services they paid for under a certain card scheme. Its 
not an automatic  right,  and its not guaranteed to succeed. The card issuer  doesnt have to 
submit a chargeback  request to the card scheme.  But we do consider it good practice for a 
business to consider carrying  out a chargeback request if the customer has asked them  to, 
and there  is a fair chance it will be successful. 
Mr B initially  asked NewDay to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. But they rightly told him this wasnt possible as the contract  for services  was taken out 
in his wifes  name not his, and so didnt satisfy  the debtor creditor  supplier  relationship 
necessary to make a claim of this type.  However  they did explain to him it might be possible 
to make a chargeback  request,  and went on to raise this with Company A on behalf of Mr B. 
The chargeback process  is set out under the rules  of the relevant card scheme.  NewDay  say 
that they followed this process  correctly before fairly deciding  not to proceed any further with 
Mr Bs claim. Mr B disputes this. So I need to consider whether I think NewDay did do 
everything they should have done  in relation to his request.
There are strict time limits  in place when making  a chargeback request.  Under  the relevant 
rules here, the merchant  has 45 days to defend a chargeback. NewDay  received 
representations from Company  A on 12 October 2017, within the 45 day time limit. So they 
had to consider  what Company A had said. I can see Company A provided several 
documents, and disputed  that they hadnt  fulfilled their contract  with Mr Bs wife. So NewDay 
asked Mr B for some  more information. 
NewDay sent Mr B some  repudiation documents and details of the evidence submitted by 
Company A. Mr B returned  this, and on 6 November 2017  NewDay sent him a letter 
explaining they needed some more information  from him. Specifically they asked him to give 
them more  information  around the amount and specific time for which his wife hadnt  
received a service.  The letter gave him 14 days to respond, in line with the time limits of the 
card scheme.  
Mr B interpreted this as a question about how much he was claiming  should  be refunded. He 
replied within the time limit to say that although  some of the goods had been received, and 
some services undertaken,  the contract was not completed. He said he felt the contract was 
clear that the whole package purchased needed  to be completed  for his wife to have had the 
benefit from it, so he asked for the full contract value of £2,200 to be refunded.  
Ref: DRN82641643NewDay said in their final response letter that they werent able to pursue  Mr Bs chargeback 
request any further  with the merchant because  he did not confirm  the period for which  the 
merchant failed to provide  the services he paid for. Theyve explained  that as Mr B 
confirmed he wanted to claim a full refund  of £2,200  they felt they couldnt assist any further, 
as they didnt think they could make a successful  claim  on this basis  in light of Company As 
representations.
I dont think this was an unreasonable conclusion for them  to have reached. Mr B had told 
them that the contract was for 12 months,  and his wife only received 8 months of the service. 
But Company A provided NewDay with a signed  copy of the contract, which states  the 
service was for 8 months. They also provided  a client history which detailed the products 
and treatments provided to Mr Bs wife. And whilst  I appreciate Mr B argues that the 
treatment was holistic and his wife needed to have received all of it to benefit,  the 
information Company  A put forward didnt  appear to support  this.
Mr B has argued that the letter NewDay sent him asking for information wasnt clear. He 
thinks NewDay should have explained that if he didnt specify  which  particular parts of the 
contract werent fulfilled,  and how much this was worth,  they wouldnt feel able to proceed 
with the chargeback. He says if hed been  given the option  of submitting a request for a 
partial refund as opposed to getting  no refund at all, he would have done so. And he says he 
would have asked  Company A to refund him £662.81. 
I agree  the letter NewDay  sent wasnt very clear.  But while I appreciate  he didnt realise  he 
was supposed  to provide specific dates, I think Mr B did interpret their question correctly,  i.e. 
how much  money was he claiming should  be refunded? I understand he is frustrated that 
NewDay didnt suggest he make a partial  claim instead. But the chargeback process  doesnt  
require NewDay to discuss  the evidence with him, or suggest an alternative chargeback 
request to the one Mr B asks them  to put forward. They gave due consideration to the 
information he provided them with, but having done so, didnt  feel the chargeback  would 
succeed. So I cant say they have done  anything wrong here.  
Mr B says the form that NewDay sent him to make his chargeback didnt give him the option 
to say that incomplete goods and services  were delivered by Company A. So hed had to 
select that goods and services  werent  received. He feels that NewDay considered  that 
Company A successfully  defended the claim as they were able to evidence that some of the 
contract had been  fulfilled. But he thinks that if hed had the option to explain on the form it 
was only partially fulfilled, they might have not have reached this decision.
Ive thought about what hes said, but when a chargeback  is raised it has to be for one of the 
reasons stated under the scheme rules. The rules  dont  have  an option to raise a request for 
a reason as specific  as Mr B would like here.  So I wouldnt expect this option to have been 
available to Mr B on NewDays form. I can see, from the evidence NewDay have  provided  us 
with that they understood some of the goods  and services had been delivered under the 
contract before they raised the chargeback. So I dont think this is why they decided not to 
proceed. And they did give Mr B the opportunity to clarify how much he was claiming should 
be returned to him when  they sent him the letter. Again, Mr B explained that the contract had 
been partially completed. 
I will add that Im not persuaded Mr Bs chargeback  would have been successful even if he 
had asked for a partial refund. Hes told us he would have  submitted  a claim for £662.81 
which he says is the value of 4 laser  treatments and 6 bottles of a product his wife didnt 
receive as she should have  under the contract. 
Ref: DRN82641644Ive looked at the contract Mr Bs wife signed with Company  A, and the client history 
detailing the treatments and products that she was given.  I can see the contract was for 26 
laser treatments. Mr B says his wife only received 22, but I can see 24 entries  for Treatment  
Laser Treatment. I appreciate it appears Mr Bs wife did not receive  one of these  as it is 
recorded as a no show, but in the contract  the customer agrees to attend  all timetabled 
sessions. And taken in context of the other submissions from Company A, I think  this 
showed that the overall service had been delivered.
 
Unfortunately its not clear  from this history how many bottles of the different products Mr Bs 
wife received. But Company A dispute  Mr Bs claim that his wife didnt receive  them all and 
explained what they had provided. While  I have  no reason to doubt what  Mr B says  
Company As submissions in this respect  have been  consistent with the other information 
they provided. So, on balance, I think its likely NewDay  would have  felt they couldnt make a 
successful claim  for this amount either.
 
For the reasons  I have  outlined above,  Im satisfied NewDay  did follow the chargeback 
process correctly. However Mr B feels that the service he received  from NewDay  throughout 
the chargeback  process was poor  and I agree. Its clear they provided  him with incorrect  
information about what the process  was on several occasions.
When Mr B first contacted  NewDay  he was told the merchant, Company A, would  have 30 
days to challenge  his chargeback. However  when he called on 5 October  2017  after 37 days 
had passed, he was correctly told the merchant actually had 45 days  to make a challenge. In 
another call on 17 October  2017  NewDay incorrectly told Mr B that his chargeback hadnt 
been challenged. They also led him to believe that the £2,200 they returned  to him after this 
call couldnt be re-debited  from his card.  This wasnt the case.
NewDay have offered £150 compensation  for these errors. I understand Mr B didnt spend 
the refunded money as he discovered NewDays error prior to withdrawing  it from his bank. 
While I appreciate it would have been extremely disappointing for him to find his refund was 
reversed, I cant see he suffered any further  financial loss as a result.  So I think  the 
compensation offered by NewDay for the trouble and upset caused is fair in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd. 
If they have not already done  so, NewDay Ltd should pay Mr B the £150 compensation they 
have offered him in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8264164