K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about account fees charged by Barclays Bank UK PLC since 2001, when 
she says she was in financial difficulty.
background
Mrs K has a current  account with Barclays. She says that in 2001 she told Barclays that she 
was in financial difficulty, but that it continued to charge her various  fees. Barclays  did not 
agree that it had done anything wrong, but as a gesture of good will it offered to refund  £100 
of fees from 2001.  Mrs K did not accept that offer. She brought this complaint to our Service.
(The fees charged  between January  2007 and January 2013 have been ruled to be out of 
our jurisdiction by another ombudsman, and so I am not going to revisit that issue.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that although Mrs K had indeed told 
the bank that she had lost her job in 2001,  she had told Barclays  a few days later that she 
was employed again.  After that her account  history had not suggested that she was still in 
financial difficulty, and she had not told the bank that she was in difficulty, so the investigator 
did not think the bank had needed to do anything. The fees had been correctly charged, in 
line with the accounts terms and conditions.
Mrs K did not accept that opinion. She said that all the times she had been  overdrawn, or 
had payments returned, should have alerted Barclays to the fact that she was struggling. 
She asked  for an ombudsman to review her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Supreme Court ruled in 2009  that the Financial  Ombudsman Service cannot  review the 
fairness of current account charges generally, so I cant uphold Mrs Ks complaint that the 
overdraft charges sometimes exceeded  her overdraft balance.  However, that does not 
prevent me from considering whether Barclays should have waived, frozen  or refunded such  
charges in response to one of its customers falling  into financial difficulty. So I have  
approached this complaint as one about financial difficulty.
My approach  in such cases is to consider  two questions. Firstly, did Barclays know, or 
should it have  known, that Mrs K was in financial difficulty? And if the answer  to that is yes, 
then the second question  is what did Barclays do about it, and did it do enough? The answer 
to the second  question, if it arises, might  be that the bank  should  have refunded  or waived 
some charges.
I have read the Finance & Leasing Associations Code of Practice, issued in 2000.  In section 
9 it states: If you find yourself  in financial difficulties, you should  let us know  as soon as 
possible. The same guidance has appeared in every similar such  guideline published since, 
such as the 2004 Lending Code and subsequent editions and the 2005 Banking Code. It is 
not in the 2016 Standards  of Lending Practice,  but I still think  it is a reasonable thing to 
expect customers to do.
Ref: DRN82503522As Ive said,  Mrs K did contact Barclays  in October 2001 to say she was unemployed, but 
only a few days later she reported that she was employed again. She complained  in 2007, 
but my colleagues have  already explained to her that the charges incurred during the six 
years after that are out of our jurisdiction.  And she complained again in 2013, so I will take 
that into account.
I have reviewed Mrs Ks statements for the period from October  2001  to January 2007. Her 
account balance  was usually in credit. It would often  go overdrawn each month, but only for 
a few days and not usually  by very much. In November and December 2001 the balance 
was not overdrawn  by more than £100, and was brought back into credit shortly afterwards. 
In later years it was sometimes more than that. But in general, the account appears to have  
been managed  well, and there is nothing which in my opinion ought to have alerted Barclays 
that anything was wrong. (I think Mrs K could  have avoided  some charges by applying  for a 
small approved overdraft facility instead of relying on an unauthorised overdraft, but that is 
not the banks fault.)
In January 2013 Mrs K complained to Barclays about its charges again,  and said that they 
were compounding her financial difficulties.  (The bank treated this as a complaint about  the 
previous six years worth of charges, and sent her a final response letter at the time. But she 
did not complain  to this Service,  which is why the six years from 2007  to 2013 are out of our 
jurisdiction. I will not reconsider this point  because another  ombudsman has already  dealt  
with it.)
After analysing Mrs Ks recent  statements, Barclays did not agree that they showed that 
Mrs K had been in financial  difficulty. This was due to the level of spending  on non-essential 
items on her account. So Barclays  did not uphold her complaint, since it said it had not had 
reason to know about her difficulties until she had complained. However, Barclays did accept 
in its final response letter  that Mrs K was in financial difficulty. So at that point Barclays  had a 
duty to treat her sympathetically and positively.
That doesnt  necessarily  mean that it had to automatically suspend or refund current account 
charges; that is only one of the options  that were  available to the bank, and it was a matter 
for the banks commercial  judgement  to decide  how to address the problem. Barclays  gave  
her the telephone number  for its Financial  Assistance Team,  and invited her to get in touch. 
It also enclosed a leaflet  identifying a number of independent debt advice charities  she could 
contact.
I have read the 2011 edition of the Lending  Code, which is the edition which was in force at 
the time.  Paragraph 182 states that on learning  that a customer is in difficulty,  a lender 
should take the following  four steps:
outline  their approach  to financial difficulties;
encourage the customer to contact the subscriber  if the customer  is worried about 
their position;
offer the customer appropriate and timely options where possible to help reduce the 
risk of deterioration in the customers  financial  well- being; and
provide signposts to sources of free, independent  money  advice.
I think Barclays letter in January 2013  fulfilled  all of these  requirements.
Paragraph 185 sets out a range of solutions  which a lender should then consider 
implementing to assist  the customer.  It is mandatory to consider them, but which  ones to 
Ref: DRN82503523implement is left to the lenders judgement.  I wont quote them  all here, but one of them is 
interest and charges concessions,  and an alternative is Promotion of availability of opt out 
from unarranged  overdrafts. Barclays chose the second one and recommended that Mrs K 
cancel her personal reserve to avoid  incurring the fees charged for that service.
From the date of that letter, 16 January 2013, to February 2014, when Mrs K stopped using  
the account, her account was only overdrawn for a total of nine days, and never  by more 
than double figures, except for one day in July when she was back in credit by the end of the 
day. So I dont  think Barclays needed to do more  than it did.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8250352