K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about the way Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) has 
dealt with a claim she made  under her motor insurance policy  when her car was damaged in 
circumstances she says werent her fault.
background
In July 2017, Ms T was driving  out of a property when rising bollards rose and damaged her 
car. She says that at the time sensors which would have detected her car and stopped the 
bollards rising hadnt been  fitted  at the property, but have been since.  So she says the 
accident was in no way her fault.
Ms T claimed  under  her Markerstudy policy for the damage to her car, and this part of her 
claim was resolved in October 2017. Ms T provided  what evidence  she could, including  the 
testimony of an estate agent  who accompanied her to the property, to support her claim that 
she wasnt at fault.
Markerstudy contacted  the owner of the property (whom Ill call D1), and the company that 
installed the bollards  (whom Ill call (D2). However  neither  would accept liability.  So in May 
2018, Markerstudy instructed solicitors. In the meantime, Ms T had to pay her policy excess 
of £350 towards  the repairs.
She also suffered  a large  increase in her insurance  premium when she renewed her policy. 
This was because a claim had been  made on her policy which  Markerstudy had to pay. This 
affected her insurance  history and her No Claims Discount  (NCD). Markerstudy said that 
as and when it recovered its outlay from D1 or D2, or anyone  else,  it would arrange for the 
extra premium she had to pay to be refunded.
Ms T complained to Markerstudy  that it had been slow to deal with her claim. She said 
Markerstudy should accept that she wasnt at fault in any way and should repay the extra  
premium she had suffered  and her excess.
Markerstudy said it had tried to get D1 and D2 to accept responsibility  and refund its outlay,  
but both refused. So it had instructed solicitors to progress matters. They were still trying to 
do this. Where liability was disputed,  as in this case,  it said that it could take some  time to 
resolve, and this would  affect future  premiums  in the meantime. 
However it acknowledged that it hadnt progressed the claim as quickly  as it should  have, 
and had failed  to keep Ms T properly informed about  what  was happening.  So it paid her 
compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset this had caused Ms T. 
Ms T said this wasnt enough. Markerstudy  should repay  the extra premium she had had to 
pay, and her excess, without further  delay.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought 
Markerstudy had dealt fairly with the repair of Ms Ts car. However until an insurer  was able 
to recover the costs it had incurred in a claim, it would  treat the claim as being a fault claim. 
This didnt  mean Ms T was responsible for the accident, but merely that the insurer  had had 
to pay out on the claim. Where, as in this case,  liability was being  disputed,  it could take 
some time for a claim to be resolved. In the meantime Ms T would  suffer an increased 
Ref: DRN87876162premium. But if Markerstudy eventually recovered  what it had expended, any excess would 
then be returned  to Ms T.
Ms T didnt accept the investigators  recommendation. So this complaint has been passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Ts frustration in this complaint.  From her point of view she was involved in 
an incident which was in no way her fault. However  following the incident, she finds  herself 
out of pocket, and cant  see when this will be corrected.
Markerstudy paid for the damage  to Ms Ts car in accordance with her policy.  As the 
investigator explained, because Markerstudy is out of pocket, this will be reflected in the 
continuing cost of Ts car insurance  and her reduced NCD. If Markerstudy manages to 
recover what it has paid from a third party, Ms T can ask for the extra premium she has paid 
to be refunded to her.
Markerstudy did set about trying  to recover what it had paid from both D1 and D2. However 
both denied liability. So in May 2018, it instructed  solicitors to act both for itself and on       
Ms Ts behalf in respect of the excess she had to pay.
Markerstudy acknowledged that it could have reached this stage sooner, and could have 
kept Ms T better informed about what was happening. So in June 2018 it agreed  to pay her 
£200 as compensation for its poor service in these respects. Like the investigator,  I think this 
was fair and reasonable compensation at that stage of Ms Ts complaint.
I have asked the solicitors  to explain  the conduct of the claim since  they were instructed in 
May 2018. Because there  are two possible defendants,  and this isnt a clear  area of law, 
they say this isnt a straightforward case. They have sought further information from Ms T, 
which say she has been slow to provide.
The solicitors say they have been trying to contact  Ms T to discuss the claim in detail with 
her since  December 2018. At the beginning of this month they were still waiting to hear from 
her. Until she does, they say they cant make further  progress  with the claim.
I conclude that since it instructed  solicitors, Markerstudy, and the solicitors  it instructed, have 
acted reasonably in trying  to take forward the claim against D1and/or D2. However Ms T 
needs to make contact  with the solicitors if the claim is to proceed  further.  
I cant say what the result  of the claim will be  thats a matter  for the courts.  However until 
such time as Markerstudy is able to recover what it has paid out from a third party  I cant 
require it to refund to Ms T the extra insurance costs  she has had to pay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and 
make no order  against  Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited.
Ref: DRN87876163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8787616