K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax hasnt treated her fairly. She 
says the interest  rates on her mortgage  have been  too high and that she was told to pay 
£9,000 to extend the term of her interest  only mortgage. But Halifax  later declined the 
extension and only offered a switch to a repayment  mortgage that was unaffordable. 
background
In 2007, Miss S took out a part repayment,  part interest only mortgage with Halifax.
In 2008, she switched the mortgage to a full interest only basis.  She said she had an ISA of 
£75,000 to repay of the mortgage balance  and would use the sale of residential property 
to repay  the rest.
In 2009, Mis S switched her mortgage to a two year fixed interest rate of 4.29%.
In 2010, Miss S borrowed  a further £80,000  also on an interest only basis.  Halifax  later gave 
Miss S consent to let out her home  for three years.
When the fixed rate expired in 2011, Miss Ss mortgage reverted to Halifaxs  homeowner  
variable rate (HVR), which it has remained on since. Miss S says that rate was unfairly high. 
In 2017 and 2018, Miss S and a financial adviser acting on her behalf, spoke to Halifax  to 
extend the term of her mortgage  as the term was due to end in 2019.  Miss S made  a lump 
sum payment to her mortgage on the understanding that it would mean  her application  to 
extend the term of her mortgage would be successful. But Halifax  said it could only extend 
the term of the mortgage on an interest only basis for 12 months   not the three to five years  
that Miss S wanted,
Miss S complains  that she has been paying the HVR for a number of years,  when she could 
have had a cheaper interest rate. She also complains that Halifax misled her to make a lump 
sum payment to her mortgage but then went ahead and declined the term extension and 
hasnt offered her a reasonable  alternative.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Halifax told 
Miss S when the fixed  rate on her mortgage would  end and it was for her to contact Halifax if 
she wanted another fixed rate. And she didnt think Halifax had treated her unfairly  in respect  
of the term extension or guaranteed it if she made a lump sum payment.
Miss S didnt accept  what the investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
interest rate 
I cant see that Halifax has given  Miss S any unfair  or misleading information  about when the 
fixed rate would end or what interest  rate she was paying. Nor has it led her to believe that it 
would proactively contact  her to arrange a new interest rate product. So I cant see that it 
has acted unfairly in applying the interest  rate it did to Miss Ss mortgage.
Ref: DRN84141962I note her point that Halifax  missed  an opportunity  to arrange a new product when she took 
further borrowing  in 2010. But she was still tied in to the fixed rate she took out in 2009  and 
subject to a significant early  repayment  charge (ERC) at that point. It would not be 
reasonable for a lender to tell a borrower  to incur  an ERC in those circumstances. So I dont  
think Halifax acted unfairly  at that time.
end of term 
Halifax has a duty to treat Miss S fairly if she doesnt (or doesnt expect to) have the means 
to repay  her mortgage  balance at the end of its term. Ive taken into account the relevant 
rules in deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case. And Ive thought about whether 
Halifax has carried out a proper exploration of Miss Ss circumstances  so it could make a fair 
assessment of whether extending  the term of her mortgage is in her best interests  and if 
not was there is an alternative that would  be. 
Having looked  at what happened  I think Halifax has treated Miss S fairly. Looking  at the 
information we have, I cant see that Miss Ss situation would  be materially  different  in the 
three to five years she suggested for the term to be extended. She hasnt put forward any 
viable proposals  to repay the balance in full at the end of any extended term. 
The paperwork we have  states that it was always Miss Ss plan to sell property to repay the 
mortgage. I accept  that plans  and circumstances change  and that is why lenders should  
consider any proposals carefully. But in this case,  I accept that Halifax  has considered 
Miss Ss proposals and made  a fair decision.  It seems likely that Miss S would be left in the 
same situation she is in now at the end of any extended term.
Switching to repayment is accepted  by all parties  to be unaffordable  in the five or so years 
that Miss S has until she plans to retire. 
I note Miss Ss point  about the lump sum payment she made to the mortgage. I agree it is 
likely that Halifax may have suggested  that it might improve her overall prospects of having  
the term of her mortgage approved. But I think its unlikely that it would have guaranteed 
approval if she made such a payment. It has offered to refund this amount. I note it said it 
would only do so for four weeks  but I think it would be reasonable for it to honour that offer 
if Miss S accepts  my decision  (if she hasnt had the money refunded already).
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8414196