K821x#15complaint
B, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC gave it incorrect information 
and did not update the name of the company when it changed.
background
B contacted Barclays in July 2018  to ask how it should notify a change in name.  Barclays  
said it would  be given  this information  directly by a third party.  The name was not changed 
and in January  2019 B contacted Barclays again. It paid B £25 for not making the change  
and said that it should have been  informed. The director of B contacted that third party  and 
was told that a different third party would obtain the information from it and then provide this 
to Barclays so the account name  could be changed. Barclays  paid B a further £25 for the 
misleading information.
Our investigator recommended that B be paid a total of £150 in compensation. B had been  
caused inconvenience and had needed to contact the third parties.
Barclays did not agree. It accepted that it had given misleading information. But it was Bs 
choice to follow this up at length  with the third parties. Barclays said that the compensation 
paid was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B had changed its company name in June 2018. It sensibly contacted Barclays to see what  it 
needed to do to change the bank accounts.  B was reassured that the update  would happen 
automatically. That did not happen and this is fairly  the responsibility of Barclays  as it had 
said it would  deal with this. B had to contact it again  to ask why the account  name  had not 
been changed. It seems  that it then must then have been corrected. B was not happy  with 
the explanation it was given about  why the change had not been notified to Barclays in the 
first place in the way it said it would. And this proved to be incorrect.  I would have expected 
Barclays to give B the right information in any explanation it gave to B so it could understand 
why the error happened.
In my view B has been caused inconvenience as the account details were not updated - as 
they easily could  have been  when  it first made contact  with Barclays.  Instead  it had to 
contact Barclays again for the information to be updated. And it was given  incorrect  
information.
The amount  of compensation fairly payable is a matter for my judgement and Ive taken into 
account our published guidance about  this. We dont  tend to award compensation for hours  
spent on a complaint  but look at the overall impact. Here I consider that compensation of 
£150 is reasonable to reflect the inconvenience caused to B.
Ref: DRN85661092my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay B a 
further £100 (making a total of £150) to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8566109