K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited  was irresponsible  to lend to him.
background
Mr G had two loans  from Harvey & Thompson  between June and July 2010 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 2 Jun 2010 £652.50 30d £750 2 Jul 2010 On time
2 27 Jul 2010 £522 30d £600 26 Aug 2010 20 Oct 2010
Mr G says he was heavily  in debt when he applied for the loans and was using multiple 
short-term lenders at the same time. He says his credit  file would have reflected this and his 
pattern of borrowing showed his financial situation  was worsening.
Harvey & Thompson says Mr Gs borrowing was short, with gaps, which is evidence of the 
loans being used exactly as intended.  It says he used its cheque  loan product and it 
confirmed he had a regular minimum income  and a cheque guarantee card.  Harvey  & 
Thompson added that the fact Mr Gs bank had issued him with a cheque guarantee card 
was evidence of his creditworthiness.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She considered that 
proportionate checks would have found  Mr G was having problems managing  his money at 
the time as he already had other short-term loans  outstanding. She recommended that 
interest and charges should be refunded on both loans (plus  8% statutory interest)  and that 
any adverse information  should be removed form Mr Gs credit file.
Harvey & Thompson responded to say, in summary, that the outstanding  short-term loans 
would not have shown on any bank statements that it might have requested as they were 
taken out shortly before the Harvey  & Thompson  loans. It adds that there was a gap in 
lending before the July loan and Mr G had paid off the other outstanding short-term loans by 
this stage. Harvey & Thompson clarified  that a credit  check is unlikely to have shown short-
term loans in 2010.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Harvey & Thompson was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make  
sure Mr G could afford to repay the loans  before  it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Harvey  & Thompson  had to do.
When Harvey  & Thompson  made its first lending  decision in June 2010, it says it confirmed 
Mr Gs income  at the time. I accept it no longer has that information,  but Im satisfied, based 
on other evidence, that Mr Gs income  was around  £2,500 in 2010.  As the required  
repayment was a large proportion of Mr Gs income, I consider proportionate checks should 
have included asking  Mr G about his expenditure, including other short-term loans.
Ref: DRN89033512Had it done so, I think  its likely Harvey  & Thompson  would  have found  Mr G already had 
three other outstanding short-term loans. I accept  what Harvey  & Thompson says about  the 
loans being too recent  to appear on any bank statement it might have requested and, 
indeed, that credit files at the time tended  not to reflect  this type of borrowing. However, it is 
for these  reasons  that proportionate checks should have included specific questions to Mr G 
about his other short-term  borrowing.
So I consider there were  clear indications that Mr G was already struggling to manage his 
money when he applied to Harvey  & Thompson  for a loan and, because of that, it should  not 
have approved further borrowing.
I accept the short-term loans referred  to above had been repaid by the time Mr G applied  for 
his second Harvey & Thompson loan, but, again,  proportionate  checks  were likely to have 
shown he had other short-term loans outstanding at the end of July 2010. This time, Mr G 
had taken out four other short-term loans prior to loan 2, none of which had been repaid 
before Harvey & Thompson made its second lending decision.
In conclusion, I dont  find Harvey & Thompson acted responsibly by approving either loan 
and it should put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Harvey & Thompson Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr G paid on the loans;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative information  about  the loans from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Harvey  & Thompson to take off tax from this interest.  
Harvey & Thompson must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8903351