K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way their home  insurance claim for water  damage was 
handled by Society  of Lloyds. The claim was dealt with by a claims administrator and 
underwritten by an under-insurer,  but for convenience Ill refer to Lloyds  throughout.
background
In early April 2018 Mr and Mrs B reported  a claim to Lloyds as they had noticed  water 
leaking around the waste pipe coming from their bathroom. They  contacted the helpline  
number and were  promised a call-back within 24 hours. When they didnt receive the call-
back, Mrs B chased up the matter. It was agreed that Mr and Mrs B would report  a claim to 
Lloyds to include carrying out trace and access of the leak. A contractor called two days 
later (on a Friday) and carried out the trace and access. He told Mr and Mrs B that a loss 
adjuster would be appointed Mr and Mrs B chased up the matter  the following Tuesday and 
complained that the contractor had done nothing to stop the leak. They  were  told by Lloyds 
that a loss adjuster wasnt needed, as they were only appointed for large claims .The leak 
had been traced to a faulty  connection on the bathroom waste pipe. The claims adviser  told 
Mrs B that the damage to the pipes wasnt covered but that the resulting damage  from the 
escape of water was.
Mr and Mrs B were  under the impression the leaking pipe would be repaired  and then 
contacted the emergency  helpline who arranged for a contractor  under  their emergency 
insurance cover to stop the leak which was unsuccessful.  I understand they are pursuing  
that separately.
Mr and Mrs B were  upset that they had been misled and that the leak was allowed to 
continue unchecked.  They  complained  initially to the claims administrator and the matter 
was then escalated  to Lloyds who recognised that the position with regard to the leaking 
pipe and the loss adjuster could have been made clearer. It offered and paid £50 
compensation, which Mr and Mrs B rejected.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably and 
didnt recommend that it take any further  action.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should just set out what is and what isnt covered under  Mr and Mrs Bs policy. 
The damage to the pipe and repairing the actual leak isnt covered, although an emergency 
repair of the leak may be covered under home emergency. This is standard  in any home 
insurance policy. Whether or not (as was said in one of the calls) there  was poor 
workmanship to the pipe its not covered. The resulting water  damage (whether to buildings 
or contents) including any drying out, and the costs  of the investigation, Lloyds has 
confirmed is covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent told that the leak wouldnt be repaired. It appears  that they 
were given the impression that this would be done  at the same time as the trace and access  
investigation. I havent heard recordings of the initial calls Mr and Mrs B made to the 
Ref: DRN83456362helpline. But it appears that they were advised  to make a claim directly  to Lloyds. In that 
claim call Mr B was asked  if he had called out a plumber and he said he hadnt done so. It 
appears that he was told it would be better to make  one rather  than two claims (one under  
home and the other under home  emergency). He did explain that the leak was a slow one 
and the water wasnt obviously gushing out.
The claims adviser did say that the repairs to the pipe werent covered. On the other hand 
Mr B talked about making two claims and not wanting to pay for parts  and she accepted that 
without going  into what he had understood. So I can understand if Mr and Mrs B were given 
the impression  that the leak would be fixed after the trace  and access  investigation.
They were  told by the contractor that a loss adjuster would be appointed.  As a contractor I 
wouldnt have expected him to advise on the terms of the policy.  He had been instructed to 
do trace  and access and it was a matter for the claims handlers  to tell Mr and Mrs B what 
was happening.  It wouldnt  have been up to that contractor to say whether a loss adjuster 
would or wouldnt  be appointed.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B were  caused  some inconvenience, although I have to bear in 
mind that by all accounts the leak had been  going  on for some  time, so leaving it a few days  
longer wouldnt  have made much difference. Also Mr B initially decided  not to make a claim 
under the home emergency cover, as the leak was a slow one causing damp rather  than a 
lot of water  coming out.
Given those circumstances, and the fact that the matter was resolved  within  a week,  I think  
the £50 paid by Lloyds  is adequate compensation. So I wont  make any finding against 
Lloyds.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8345636