K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that, in respect of his home  insurance claim for water  damage,  Society of 
Lloyds has abandoned any attempt at recovering his losses  from the owner  of the flat above 
him.
background
Mr S made a claim for water damage  to his property  to Lloyds  in November 2016. The leak 
came from the flat upstairs and Mr S advises  that the owner of the flat failed to do anything  
about the leak for several weeks until he called the council  and the leak was finally dealt  
with. The owner  is a landlord whose property was managed by a letting agency.
Lloyds dealt with Mr Ss claim and he had to pay a £350 excess.  It tried over a couple  of 
years through the letting agency  to get the upstairs owner to respond  to letters  and 
telephone calls so that it could establish  the cause  of the leak and if the owner was legally  
responsible. It met with no success and eventually in June 2018 told Mr S that it had 
abandoned any attempt at recovery. Mr S was dissatisfied with this as the owner had an 
office a few doors away from his flat and he saw him all the time. He also said the owner  had 
a staff member who filtered  his calls and always said he was out. He felt that Lloyds had an 
obligation to recover  his losses.
Lloyds explained  that having  made  strenuous efforts  to get in touch with the owner, it 
couldnt justify  pursuing it any longer. It assessed  its chances of recovery as poor so 
declined to take any further steps.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably. 
Mr S didnt agree and the matter has been  passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has advised Mr S, theres no obligation on Lloyds part to recover losses 
from a third party. The terms of the policy say that it will pursue such  claims at its option. 
Having said that it should take reasonable steps to try to recover the losses if it felt that was 
appropriate. Here  over a period of two years Lloyds made a number of attempts to contact 
the owner through the letting agency but met with no response to letters phone calls or 
emails.
In those circumstances the only choice would  be to issue  court  proceedings against the 
owner. But to do that Lloyds  would  need to believe it had a reasonable chance of success. 
In this case it didnt  know where the leak came from or crucially whether  there  was a 
reasonable prospect of establishing that the owner  had been  negligent.  It assessed  that its 
chances of success  were poor and given the value of the claim it wasnt worth  instructing  
solicitors to pursue  it.
Im afraid that Lloyds  has no obligation to take matters further, Im satisfied that it made  
strenuous efforts to get a response  out of the owner. It was up to Lloyds to decide whether it 
had a reasonable prospect of success.  Just because the leak came  from the upstairs flat 
Ref: DRN88472332doesnt necessarily  mean  that the landlord  was at fault, legally speaking. And the cause of 
the leak couldnt be established without  the owners co-operation.
I appreciate that Mr S feels differently about the situation and he is free to pursue legal 
proceedings himself.  And I know it must be frustrating for him. But I cant reasonably expect 
Lloyds to take any further steps.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8847233