K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Metro  Bank PLC unfairly  placed a Credit  Industry  Fraud Avoidance  System  
(CIFAS) marker against his name.  He says this has stopped him from being open to bank 
account. He wants  Metro to remove the marker  and compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
background
Mr C opened a current account with Metro in November  2015.
In March 2016, three payments were  made  into Mr Cs account:
7 March 2016 £15.00
11 March 2016  £20.60
15 March 2016  £2,900.00
On 15 March 2016, Metro Bank was contacted by another  bank, which I will refer to as bank 
A, who said their customer did not authorise  the payments  to Mr Cs account.  Following  this 
notification, Metro returned  £2,905.50 to bank  A. And it decided to close  Mr Cs account.
Metro also thought Mr C had misused  his account  so they applied  a CIFAS marker.  Metro 
didnt ask Mr C any questions about the payments into his account before making the 
decision to close the account and apply  the CIFAS marker. 
Mr C says it was only in 2018 when he tried to open a new bank account that he discovered 
Metro had placed a CIFAS marker  against  his name. He said he didnt know  anything  about 
the payments  into his account. Mr C complained to Metro. He accepted Metro had closed his 
account but wanted Metro  to remove the CIFAS  marker. 
Metro said it had complied with the terms and conditions when it closed Mr Cs account.  And 
told Mr C if he wanted to challenge the CIFAS marker he should contact bank A or provide 
proof of his entitlement to the payments along  with a summary of events.  Metro  said it hadnt  
done anything  wrong. And it had complied with an indemnity which  it had received from bank 
A and had returned the money  to the sending  bank. Unhappy with this response Mr C 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Cs case and asked  Mr C and Metro some additional questions  
about the payments. Mr C said hed opened the account when he was 16 years  old and 
intended to use it to have his wages  paid into when he got a part time job. He said hed 
never used  the account and kept his bank card, PIN and online banking  details  in a school 
bag. Mr C said he forgot about the card.  And didnt realise it wasnt in his possession  until he 
received Metros letter in March 2016.
Mr C says someone must have got access to his bank card and banking  information. He 
hasnt been able to provide any specific information as to when  this was or who this might  
be. Mr C says he never contacted Metro at the time because  his parents told him to focus on 
his education.  
Metro said it wasnt able to return all of the £2,935.60 as £30 had been withdrawn using a 
cash machine prior to it receiving bank As request. Metro said it believes Mr C made  this 
cash withdrawal so it said the CIFAS marker  had been  correctly applied. 
Ref: DRN87157092An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint.  She thought Metro was unfair when it applied 
the CIFAS marker. She asked Metro to provide evidence it had carried out an investigation  
at the time to make sure the marker was applied correctly. And evidence  to show  that Mr C 
was responsible for the £30 cash withdrawal.  But due to the passage of time Metro said it 
was unable to provide  anything. So the investigator  said Metro should  remove  the marker. 
She also said Metro should  pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
the marker  caused  him. 
Mr C accepted what the investigator  said. Metro disagreed. It said Mr C hadnt  kept his bank 
card and details safe. And by not taking adequate care of his details he had facilitated the 
subsequent events. Metro said the withdrawal of £30 was made close  to his home so its 
likely Mr C authorised the payment as his genuine  card and PIN were used. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro says it applied  the CIFAS marker  because bank  A said their customer  didnt authorise 
the payments  made into Mr Cs account. So Ive looked at whether  Metro was fair to apply 
the marker,  based  on the evidence it had, the investigation it carried out. And what the rules  
say about applying such markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that Metro needed to have enough 
information to make a formal complaint  to the police or other relevant law enforcement 
agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed  cases  of fraud,  rather than mere 
suspicion. In addition, CIFAS guidance sets out businesses  are expected  to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.  
Having looked  at whats happened  here, I havent  seen any evidence that Metro contacted 
Mr C at the time and asked him for information  about the three payments made to his 
account. And it hasnt  shown that it contacted bank A, which raised  the indemnity for any 
clarification. So in this particular case, I dont think Metro carried  out sufficient checks  to 
satisfy the burden  of proof required to apply  the marker. 
Metro has pointed out that Mr Cs account  received £1,500 in January 2016 which was 
withdrawn at £300 intervals over a number of days. Metro says this activity is suspicious.  
Whilst I appreciate Metros position, it hasnt been  able to provide any evidence  to support its 
suspicions  such as these funds being  confirmed  as fraudulent.  Ive also kept in mind  that 
Metro didnt raise any concerns it may have had about these payments with Mr C at the 
time.   
I think Metro shouldve contacted Mr C as this wouldve  given him the opportunity to explain 
the circumstances surrounding the payments into his account. Had it done so, Mr C wouldve 
been able to explain more about the activity on his account. And what  he knew  about the 
payments. He wouldve also been  able to provide Metro with information  about where he 
kept his bank card and other banking information.  And that he no longer had his bank card 
and banking credentials.
Ref: DRN87157093The information Metro  held was the indemnity  it had received from bank A. But Metro didnt 
explore the possibility that someone  else got access to his card and PIN. And were  able to 
use them  without his knowledge. So I dont think it had enough evidence to satisfy  the 
criteria set out in the CIFAS guidelines.  Metro  has also confirmed that due to the passage  of 
time it no longer  has the evidence to show Mr C authorised the £30 cash  withdrawal. So I 
agree with the investigator that it was unfair for Metro to put the marker against Mr C in 
these particular circumstances  and it should now be removed. 
Mr C has told the investigator  that as a result of the CIFAS marker being applied  it was 
difficult for him to open a bank  account. I can see that Mr C was able to open a basic bank 
account. But Ive kept in mind that at the time Mr C was about to go to university and needed  
an account to receive  his student loan and receive any salary  from work he was able to 
obtain to help him through his education.  From  what Mr C has said I dont doubt that the 
marker recorded by Metro  has impacted  on him. So I think  Metro should pay Mr C £150  
compensation for what took place. I think that amount fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Metro Bank PLC to contact CIFAS and ask them  to remove  the CIFAS marker 
Metro placed on Mr Cs record  and to pay Mr C £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by applying the marker. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8715709