K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr M says FICL mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1996.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr M owed on his store  card. The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mr M couldnt work  because 
he had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Mr M says the PPI wasnt discussed with him and he was 
just told where to sign on the form.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  for the PPI. A tick has been placed in the box to confirm that Mr M 
wanted the cover and he has signed  the application form which suggests it reflected what  
he wanted. If Mr M didnt want the PPI he could have left the tick box blank.
Mr M has told us that he didnt tick any boxes and was just told to sign the form by the sales  
assistant. Whilst I appreciate his comments,  Mr M was making an application  for additional  
credit and I would  have expected him to have read through the form before he signed it. And 
if he didnt want to take out the PPI, I think he would  have  raised  this with the sales  person 
at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mr M 
chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse  it if he didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mr M. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for him. But FICL did need to make  sure it 
gave Mr M clear enough information about  the policy to enable him to decide for himself if he 
should take the policy. 
Ref: DRN83717312Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr L 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
he was already aware. And it seems  like it would have  been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mr M has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  detailed  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8371731