K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about information Bank  of Scotland plc has reported to credit  reference 
agencies.
background
In May 2016  Miss H took out a loan from Bank of Scotland. A total of £29,881.20 was 
repayable over 5 years, through  monthly repayments of £498.02.
In June 2018 Miss H contacted Bank of Scotland and explained that she was having some 
financial difficulties. The bank said that for three months it would accept lower repayments  of 
£165. Miss H asked the advisor she spoke to if this would affect her credit  file. They told her 
that they didnt  know  the exact  impact  it would have, but confirmed the arrangement  would 
be reported to credit reference  agencies. Before Miss H agreed to the arrangement she 
contacted a credit reference agency and was told that it would show on her credit file as an 
arrangement to pay.
She later found that whilst her credit file showed  an arrangement  to pay was in place in for 
the first month, the following two months had late payment markers, signifying that the 
account was in arrears.  
Miss H complained to Bank of Scotland. It said that the information  it had reported  about her 
loan account was accurate. And that it had informed her the arrangement  would be reported 
to credit reference agencies.
Miss H says that had she known it would impact her credit file in this way she wouldnt have 
entered into the arrangement.  And she wants Bank of Scotland to remove the negative  
information from her credit file and pay her compensation.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that Bank of Scotland wouldnt have known that arrears 
would be accruing on Miss Hs account as a result  of the repayment  plan.  And felt it should  
have made  her aware of this, and the adverse impact on her credit  file. They  thought it was 
unfair for the bank to have  agreed to this repayment plan when Miss H had made it clear  she 
was tying to avoid  negative information being recorded on her credit  file. And they asked it to 
remove the late payment  markers from her credit  file, and pay her £150 compensation.
Bank of Scotland didnt accept these  findings.  It says the information it recorded was 
accurate, and its advisor had made  Miss H aware the reduced repayments would be 
reported to credit reference agencies. So the case was passed to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 2 December 2019.  In summary I said 
that;
I was satisfied the information  Bank of Scotland has reported  to the credit reference 
agencies was accurate. By making reduced repayments Miss H wasnt  maintaining  
the loan account in line with the original loan agreement. This meant that arrears had 
accrued. And this was now being  reflected by the markers  on her credit file.
Ref: DRN85770362I said banks have  an obligation to provide accurate information to credit reference 
agencies about how accounts are maintained. And that I could hear Bank of Scotland  
had made Miss H aware it would report the arrangement. 
I explained that exactly how that information  is then recorded  and displayed is up to 
the credit  reference agency. So whilst  I appreciated Miss H was upset Bank of 
Scotland hadnt confirmed exactly how this arrangement would be shown on her 
credit file and the impact  this would have, I also didnt think its advisor  had given her 
any incorrect information. 
I explained that listening to the telephone  calls Miss H had with Bank of Scotland  I 
could hear its advisor had confirmed her account  wouldnt  be defaulted. But that hed 
also explained that the arrangement would be reported to credit  reference agencies. 
And when she asked he didnt give her any assurances that this wouldnt have a 
negative impact on her credit file.
I considered the fact Miss H has told us that she wouldnt have entered into the 
arrangement if shed known it would have  a negative impact on her credit file. I said I 
sympathised with her and I could  see shed taken steps to research the arrangement  
before entering  into it. But I didnt  think Bank  of Scotland had made an error  here.  
I also said that I wasnt  persuaded  that, on balance, its likely Miss H would have 
otherwise been able to avoid some form of negative  information  on her credit file 
during this period as it was clear  she was struggling with her finances.  I noted that 
shed told Bank  of Scotland that shed had to apply  for repayment holidays already. 
And that she had other bills to pay and was trying to balance her cash  flow. 
Bank of Scotland had also explained  that it carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment for Miss H and this showed  a large  deficit. 
And I didnt think Miss H had sufficient  funds in her bank account throughout the 
whole three month period (i.e. not just on the date payments were due) to have been 
able to cover the additional amounts required to make up the full contractual  loan 
repayments.
I said Id asked Bank of Scotland if, as a gesture of goodwill, it would be willing  to 
amend the information  reported  on Miss Hs credit file. But that it had said it wasnt  
willing to do this. And I didnt feel I could fairly and reasonably  compel it to do so.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision. Miss H acknowledged receipt but 
did not offer any further information  for my consideration. Bank of Scotland did not reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has submitted any new information for 
me to consider, Ive reached the same conclusions  I did in my provisional  decision. 
I do sympathise with Miss H, and I know shes disappointed that her credit rating has been 
affected. But Bank of Scotland  did tell her it would report that she was making  reduced 
payments. And whilst it correctly told her the account would not be defaulted, it didnt 
suggest that her credit  report would not be adversely  affected.  Im also still not persuaded 
that she would have otherwise been  able to avoid her credit file being negatively impacted 
during this period given her financial situation.
Ref: DRN85770363my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8577036