K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that when  he made a claim on his motor insurance policy after an accident, 
Covea Insurance  plc didnt offer him enough for his written-off car.
background
Mr B believed his car was insured  for £2,000 when the policy  started on 7 August 2018. 
Shortly afterwards, it was damaged in an accident.  Covea said the cost of repairing the 
damage was more than the cars  market  value. It said the market  value was £1,385. But it 
noted that there was pre-accident damage  to the car. It made a deduction of £385 for that. It 
also deducted the policy excess of £150.  And as Mr B was paying his premium in 
instalments, it deducted the remaining sum due, which was £245.01.  So it offered Mr B 
£604.99 as the cars  total loss settlement  sum.  Mr B thought it should have paid him £2,000.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. He thought  Covea had acted 
reasonably. He said the policy only offered the market value if a car was written-off.  He 
noted that Covea had based its offer on the values  given  in three trade  guides  for similar 
cars to Mr Bs car. He thought that was fair. He said the figure of £2,000  set out on the policy 
schedule was only an estimate of the cars  value.  He thought Covea had made a fair 
deduction from the cars market value for the pre-accident damage  found on it.
Mr B said Covea hadnt sent him the policy wording,  so he wasnt  aware hed only be paid 
the cars  market value.  He said he didnt know hed have to pay the remaining premium,  
either, or the policy  excess. He said two of Coveas engineers had taken photos of the car 
without his permission,  and that hed been told the car would be repaired. 
The investigator pointed  out that Covea is an online company, so all its documents are 
available online.  It only sends documents by post if a policy holder requests it. He thought 
that was reasonable. He said it was standard practice for insurers to require  the full premium 
to be paid if a car was a total loss. So he didnt think Mr B would have acted differently if hed 
been aware of that. The investigator said insurers usually allow  a policy  holder to put another 
car on the policy. But in this case, Mr Bs policy was cancelled by Covea  for an 
unconnected reason. He said Mr B had made  a separate complaint about the cancellation. 
The investigator accepted that Mr B was inconvenienced by having  to deal with two of 
Coveas engineers, due to his restricted mobility. But he didnt think it was wrong for them  to 
start taking  photos of the car before Mr B got outside his property. Mr B again disputed that 
the policy details  were available online. He repeated that he wanted  £2,000  for his car, but 
he accepted Coveas offer as an interim settlement.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea says Mr B found the policy through a comparison  website. It says the details set out 
on the policys Statement of Fact  including the cars insured value of £2,000  - were all 
provided by Mr B. He says that isnt the case.  But that sum is just an estimate of the cars 
Ref: DRN82010702value anyway, regardless of who set it out. The policy states that Covea will only pay the 
cars market  value in the event of it being written-off.  
We think using the figures  set out in the national trade guides is the best way to establish a 
cars pre-accident market value. We usually dont  rely on adverts, as they show  asking 
prices, which  are subject to negotiation. I think it was fair for Covea to offer Mr B the average 
sum quoted  by three of the trade guides. We checked the valuation in a fourth trade  guide.  
Using that as well may have produced a slightly higher  sum for Mr B. But I also have to 
consider the deduction Covea made for the cars  pre-accident damage.  Having seen the 
photos of the damage and the engineers  report,  I think Covea made a very reasonable 
deduction for it. So I dont think it should have to increase  its offer for the car. 
Mr B isnt happy that Covea also deducted  his policy  excess  and the remaining part of his 
premium from the sum it offered for his car. The policy says the excess will be deducted in 
the event of a total loss. And its standard practice  across the industry for that to happen. 
The same applies to the policy premium. Mr B had made a claim on the policy.  As the 
damage would have cost more than the car was worth to repair, Covea offered him a 
settlement sum for it. So the policy fulfilled the purpose for which Mr B bought  it - it covered 
the loss of his car. In this situation, its standard industry practice to require the full premium  
to be paid. So I dont  think Covea acted unreasonably in making these deductions.  
Mr B says he didnt see the policy documents, so he isnt bound by their terms and 
conditions. He says Covea said it would send them to him by email and by post, but didnt do 
so. Ive listened to the call in which Mr B agreed to buy the policy.  The advisor said the policy  
documents were  available to view online  or they could  be posted out for a charge of £15. 
Mr B said hed prefer to see them online.  The advisor didnt say shed send the documents  
to Mr B by email.  She said shed send him a confirmation email with details of how to get into 
the online documents, which would  be stored  in his online account.  
Covea has provided  notes from its system to show that Mr B called on 1 August 2018 to say 
he was unable to see his account online, as his computer was broken. Covea agreed to 
send the documents to him by post,  free of charge. The notes show that two days later, Mr B 
rang again to say he still hadnt got the documents. The advisor said theyd been posted  to 
him but could take a few days to arrive. There are notes dated  22 August 2018 that say Mr B 
called again, and that on the same date the documents were  posted to him again, by first 
class mail.  Covea says it didnt get any more calls from Mr B about  the documents.
When Mr B first called Covea about the policy documents, he didnt say he hadnt got the 
details of how to access them  online  from Covea. If his computer wasnt  working, Mr B could 
still have accessed  the documents using  any other computer. I think  the file notes show  its 
far more likely than not that Covea sent the documents to Mr B by post. But even if he didnt 
get to see them, I dont think he was disadvantaged by that in terms of the issues hes 
complained about.  
Had Mr B known about and objected to only the market value being payable in the event of a 
total loss, I think hed have struggled  to find another insurer with a policy that offered  more 
than market value  in his situation. Agreed  value policies arent common. They usually cover 
cars of a much higher  value than Mr Bs car. And theyre  more  expensive to buy. 
In requiring  Mr B to pay the policy excess and the full premium, Covea applied  the terms and 
conditions that were set out in Mr Bs policy. But those terms and conditions reflect standard  
industry practice. So Mr B is very unlikely to have found a policy  that didnt require him to 
pay the policy excess and the full premium  in a total loss situation.
Ref: DRN82010703Mr B says Covea sent two engineers  at different times to assess  his car at his home.  He 
says that was inconvenient.  He thinks its wrong that they took photos  of his car without his 
permission before he got outside to the car to meet them. He also says he was told that the 
car would be returned to factory condition  rather than written-off.  
I havent seen  any evidence that Covea  considered  repairing  Mr Bs car rather  than writing it 
off. Covea has explained that initially, it instructed an engineer to inspect the vehicle. But as 
he didnt do so as quickly as expected, it instructed a photographer to take images of the car 
and report back.  Covea says there was a cross-over  between  it cancelling the engineer  and 
instructing the photographer,  so both of them visited Mr Bs address to see the car.
It must have been inconvenient and difficult for Mr B to have to get outside his home and to 
the car twice to have it assessed. But the engineer and the photographer  were acting for 
Covea in its attempt  to assist Mr B with his claim. I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for them 
to take photos  of the car whilst waiting  for Mr B to make his way to it. And I dont think the 
level of inconvenience  Mr B faced is sufficient to merit compensation. 
In my opinion, Mr B hasnt  been  able to show that Covea acted unreasonably in dealing  with 
his claim.   So although  I can see that he found  the process difficult, and genuinely thought it 
should have been handled differently,  I cant uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201070