K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC unfairly refused to process chargebacks when 
she disputed timeshare  purchases shed made.
background
Mrs L took out several contracts with timeshare suppliers between 2007  and 2011 using her 
Barclays account. In late 2012 she asked Barclays to process a chargeback on her account 
because she said one of the timeshare contracts shed paid the deposit for by debit card was 
fraudulent. Barclays issued a final response letter in December 2012 to say it couldnt 
process the chargeback because the request  was more than 120 days  after the transaction. 
Mrs L contacted Barclays  in 2013 to request a chargeback on a transaction  from July 2011. 
She got in touch  again in 2017 to ask it to process  more chargebacks.  Barclays  refused 
because it said the transactions were bank transfers so Mrs L complained. Barclays  looked 
into her complaint but rejected it because chargebacks arent  possible  for bank transfers  
and, for any payments made by debit card it wouldve been too late to process a chargeback 
by that stage. It apologised for taking so long to get back to Mrs L and credited her account  
with £50 by way of apology  for that. Mrs L wasnt happy with this so she came to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld so Mrs L asked  for 
review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs Ls complaint is that Barclays refused 
to process chargebacks she requested  in 2017  for the payments shed made between 2007  
and 2011 for the timeshare properties. For the payments made by card, there  are time-limits 
on the chargeback  scheme which are governed by VISA. This means that a chargeback  
request has to be brought within 120 days of the statement date or, in some  cases  the time 
limit can be extended  to 540 days.  When Mrs L first contacted Barclays in December 2012  
with her concerns,  more  than 540 days had already passed since  the payment was made in 
June 2011. And by the time she contacted  Barclays in 2013 and 2017,  years had passed 
since she made the transactions. So Barclays wouldnt have been able to process these 
requests in any event  because  of the time passed.
Chargebacks can only be made for payments covered by the VISA chargeback  scheme. So 
a chargeback request cant be made  for transactions made by bank transfer. Barclays  has 
provided evidence  that at least  one of the disputed transactions in July 2011 was made by 
bank transfer. So it wouldnt have been  possible to process  a chargeback  for this.
I can understand that Mrs Ls very upset that she cant claim her money back  when  she feels 
so strongly that she hasnt  had the services  shes paid for. But in the circumstances, I dont 
think theres anything  more Barclays could do to help her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Ref: DRN87747102Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8774710