K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the balance on her catalogue  shopping  account  with Studio Retail 
Limited, the decision to default the account and the customer service  she received.
background
Mrs C had a catalogue  shopping account  with Studio. In July 2016 she contacted  it to tell it 
that she was in financial difficulty and would be able to resume  payments once she had her 
divorce settlement.  Studio put the account  on hold (meaning she didnt  have to make any 
payments and no interest was charged) from July 2016 until July 2017  when it was taken off 
hold because Mrs C hadnt made  contact. The account was put on hold again from October 
2017, following  a call from Mrs C explaining shed  soon be in a position  to resume  payments  
onto the account.  
In November 2018, Mrs C contacted  it to say she was disputing  the outstanding balance on 
the account. She explained shed been  told the balance would be archived. She also said 
shed ordered  some goods in February 2016 which she didnt receive, and she said shed 
had poor customer service. Studio explained  the balance of £889.16 was valid from July 
2016, and the outstanding balance had been  sold to a third party. It didnt accept  its staff had 
been rude, arguing Mrs C had failed to give any specific instances of poor service.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Studios response  and so she complained to this service about 
the outstanding balance,  and the fact the account  had since been defaulted. She said that 
while on the phone to Studio to try and discuss the missing items and the final balance on 
her account,  she was left on hold,  and the advisor  pretended he couldnt hear her. She could 
also hear laughter in the background, and the call was terminated. 
Our investigator didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld. He listened to the calls Studio 
had provided, concluding  the customer service was satisfactory and commenting  he didnt 
hear anyone  laughing,  or making fun of Mrs C in the background. He explained the available 
invoices reflected that what she had bought  had been charged  correctly and that he was 
satisfied the account balance was fair. He noted  the last time the account was charged for 
an invoice was in February 2016, and the last payment was also in February 2016. And he 
was satisfied that, as there was no payment on the account since  February 2016, the default 
had been fairly added. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint  and has asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. She maintains the customer service was bad for several years.  Shes 
unhappy the balance on the account  has increased, and maintains it isnt correct. Shes 
unhappy our investigator didnt listen  to all the calls she had with Studio, and that she didnt 
know the account balance had been sold to a third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusions  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mrs Cs account  was charged for an item that she didnt 
receive, and Mrs Cs confirmed she hasnt got any proof.  So, I cant ask Studio to do anything.  
Ref: DRN86594872Mrs C disputes the balance on her account, but shes  failed to explain the basis on which 
she disputes the balance. Studio reviewed the balance and confirmed it was correct.  And the 
available statements show the balance hasnt increased since 2016, so in the absence of 
any evidence that the balance was wrong when it was placed on hold in February 2016, Im 
satisfied it was correct.
 
The main  issue for me to consider  is whether  Mrs C was treated fairly  when  she was in 
financial difficulty. Studio stopped charging  interest  on Mrs Cs account once it learned she 
was in financial difficulty. It also put the account on hold meaning she didnt need to make  
any payments. Im satisfied that was fair. Interest was added to the account  for the months  
when the account wasnt on hold, but Studio eventually accepted some interest had been 
charged to the account in error. This interest was subsequently refunded,  and Im satisfied 
that was fair.
According to the account  agreement,  Mrs C was contractually  obliged  to make  monthly  
payments to pay off the outstanding balance. She last made  a payment in February 2016, 
and the account was defaulted in April 2019. Im satisfied  the decision to default the account 
was fair and in line with the guidelines from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
that when a customer is at least three months behind their payments, a default may be 
registered on their credit  file (and it would be expected for a default to be registered  if a 
customer is six months behind their payments).  
Arguably, Studio could  have defaulted the account sooner, for example in July 2017, when it 
was apparent that Mrs C still wasnt able to make the monthly payments. If this had happened,  
the default would have  cleared from Mrs Cs credit file sooner. But Mrs C had told Studio shed 
be able to resume payments, so dont think its decision to delay  the default was unreasonable. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mrs C was treated fairly  and reasonably while  she was in financial 
difficulty. I understand shes found  her financial situation distressing, but Im not persuaded 
this is a result of anything  Studio has or hasnt done. 
customer service
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence, including the call recordings, and I 
havent seen any specific instances of poor customer service. Mrs Cs said the advisor had 
pretended he couldnt hear her, but Ive listened  to the call and the line was crackling and it 
was difficult to hear what she was saying.  Similarly, I was unable to find any instances  where  
the call handlers  terminated  the call, or where  there was laughter  in the background.
Mrs Cs said we havent listened to every call, and its right that Studio has been unable to 
produce recordings of every call. But its not our role to search  for examples of customer  
service in the absence  of complaints about  specific instances. Overall,  Im satisfied the 
customer service  Mrs C received from Studio was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN86594873my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.  
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8659487