K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc has treated them  unfairly with 
how it has priced their buildings and contents  insurance over a number  of years.
background 
Mr and Mrs J have insured their home with St Andrews  for several  years. They last changed 
their policy with St Andrews in 2008 when they moved from a mortgage linked insurance 
policy to a standalone one. At this point  they increased their cover from buildings only to 
buildings and contents. When this policy was taken  out it cost £265.58 per annum. The 
renewal price offered  in 2016 was £597.46.
Mr and Mrs J had spoken with St Andrews  at different points throughout the time they were 
insured with it to discuss the price of their policy and seek a discount.  But in 2016 after 
seeing a number of articles  about  loyalty pricing  and how customers  who stay with the same 
provider for many years potentially pay more for their insurance than customers who shop 
around each year,  Mr and Mrs J looked to see what the cost for comparison was. They were 
shocked to realise  they could insure  their home for as a little as £120.00 per annum.
We looked into Mr and Mrs Js complaint and explained that we didnt think wed be able to 
consider all the price  increases on their policy.  We explained St Andrews hadnt consented 
to us considering  how their previous  policy, cancelled in 2008 was priced. This was because 
is was more than six years from the date of the event  complained  about and more  than three  
years from the point when  we felt Mr and Mrs J ought reasonably to have known there  was 
cause for complaint. Because  they cancelled the older policy for a new one with significantly 
more cover than the older one for a very similar price, we felt they ought  reasonably to have 
been aware there was cause for complaint about  the price  of the previous policy  at the time.  
There was no indication  of any exceptional  circumstances  stopping  Mr and Mrs J being able 
to bring this complaint sooner. Because they didnt  bring the complaint to us until 2019,  we 
felt this part of their complaint had been brought too late.
We did think we could  look at how St Andrews had treated Mr and Mrs J with how it priced  
their policy from 2008 until the policy was cancelled  in 2016.
Following the complaint  being brought to this Service, St Andrews made  an offer to settle it. 
It felt the price it offered Mr and Mrs J each year for their insurance  was fair and had been 
priced in line with its approach to risk. But it felt when  Mr and Mrs J called to seek  a discount 
with their policy in 2013, it didnt explain all the options that were available  to them.  And this 
meant a cheaper  alternative policy wasnt discussed. To put things right it offered to refund 
the difference in what Mr and Mrs J paid for their insurance from 2013 until the policy was 
cancelled against  what they would have  paid had the alternative policy been offered. It 
offered to pay interest at 8% on top of this as well as an additional £100.00  for the distress  
and inconvenience.
Our investigator looked at the offer and explained that they felt this was fair. 
Mr and Mrs J have said they dont  agree and because  of this, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN82235192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint and I believe  the offer made  by St Andrews to put things right is fair.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J has been  insured with St Andrews for many  years and feel theyve 
been overcharged and treated unfairly  because of their loyalty. But as our investigator said,  
its important to be clear that we cant consider  the price of their insurance for its duration 
with St Andrews.
DISP 2.8.2 sets out when  a complaint can be considered by us and whether it has been 
brought in time. As our investigator  has said,  this explains that a complaint needs  to be 
brought within six years of the date of the event complained about. Or three years from the 
date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware)  
that they had cause  for complaint. We can only consider a complaint brought to us which is 
late, if there  have been exceptional  circumstances which resulted in the delay.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs J changed their policy from a building only one to a buildings and 
contents policy. This change in cover resulted in an increase in premium  of less than £10.00. 
With the change  in cover being so significant and the price  increase so small, I think  its 
reasonable to believe  that Mr and Mrs J ought  reasonably to have been  aware  they had 
cause for complaint at the time about  their previous policy price. They didnt  question  this 
until 2019 over ten years  after they changed the policy and havent  said there is anything 
which stopped  them from being able to question this sooner. 
There isnt anything which Id consider  to be an exceptional circumstance which stopped Mr 
and Mrs J from questioning the price  of their previously policy before this complaint was 
brought. Because of this, I wont be considering the price increases of their previous policy 
which was cancelled in 2008 as this part of the complaint  has been brought  to us too late.
Ive considered how St Andrews has treated Mr and Mrs J from 2008  onwards when they 
took out their buildings and contents  insurance  policy. 
Our role isnt to tell a business  what it should charge for the insurance it offers. To do so 
would be interfering  with their commercial judgement. But we can check to make sure a 
business has treated  customers  fairly with the insurance and price theyve offered. We want  
to make sure someone hasnt been  treated differently because of how they have  or havent 
engaged with the cost of their insurance  overtime.
Mr and Mrs J have engaged with St Andrews on the price of their policy  at different times 
since 2008 and sought a discount on what they were paying. In 2009  this resulted in the 
price being  frozen in 2010. They spoke with St Andrews again in 2013  and a discount of 
£32.51 was applied to their renewal.
When a customer speaks  to their insurer about the cost of their policy  and looks for 
discounts with this, they are engaging on the price  clearly  looking to reduce this. Overtime  
insurers review the products they offer and some  introduce new similar products which  might  
be suitable to existing customers. So when  a customer speaks with their insurer  about the 
policy they have  with a view to reduce the cost of their cover, wed expect the business to be 
Ref: DRN82235193clear about  the options it has available and provide information on any suitable alternatives  
to allow  them to make  an informed choice.
St Andrews  has said in 2009  there  was no suitable  alternative product available  that it could 
have offered Mr and Mrs J and the discount it offered was the best it could do at the time 
when trying to reduce  the price  for them. But in 2013  when Mr and Mrs J spoke to them  
about the cost of their policy, there  was a suitable  alternative available.  This policy was 
cheaper than the policy  Mr and Mrs J had and because it didnt give them the details of this 
policy at the time, St Andrews feels it didnt give them  all the information  they needed to 
make an informed choice.  
St Andrews  has offered  to refund Mr and Mrs J the difference  they paid for their insurance 
from 2013 onwards  above the cost of what they would have paid had they been offered the 
alternative policy at the time and taken this out.
The alternative policy St Andrews had was suitable for Mr and Mrs J and provided cover  
which was similar to what they already had but offered this for less than they were paying. I 
think its reasonable to expect they would have taken this out at the time if offered. And when 
St Andrews  failed to provide the information  about  this policy it meant  Mr and Mrs J couldnt  
make an informed choice  about their insurance  and whether  the price they were  offered was 
fair.
St Andrews  offer to refund the difference  Mr and Mrs J paid in excess of the cost of this 
alternative policy against the policy they had feels like a fair way to put right this failing. It 
puts Mr and Mrs J back  in the position they would have been  in had St Andrews done what it 
should have and provided them with all the information they needed to make  an informed 
choice at the time. So St Andrews has offered what Id expect with this offer.
There were times when Mr and Mrs J didnt engage  with St Andrews on the cost of their 
insurance and the cost increased during some of these years. But having looked  at the 
reasons why the price increased, Im satisfied that St Andrews has treated Mr and Mrs J 
fairly. The increases  were  inline with how we know it recoups new business  discounts and 
with how it applies its pricing  strategy  to all customers. I cant  share the detail  of this with Mr 
and Mrs J as it is commercially sensitive but I dont  think St Andrews has treated them  
unfairly here.  
Overall I think  the offer made  by St Andrews is fair to resolve this complaint and it should 
pay Mr and Mrs J the following:
The difference in what they paid for their insurance from 2013  onwards which  was in 
excess of the price of what the alternative policy would have cost but wasnt  offered.
8% interest should be added to this amount with tax deducted at the normal rate if 
St Andrews deems this necessary.
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against St Andrews 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Ref: DRN82235194Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8223519