K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was unable  to participate  in a corporate action, due to problems with 
Interactive Investor  Services  Limiteds (IISL) online facility  and customer  service failings. He 
says hes lost out financially as a result.
background
On 20 December 2017 IISL sent shareholders an email notification that Company S was 
undergoing a corporate action. S was making a rights issue and IISL gave  its customers  a 
deadline of 5 January 2018 to make their online election. 
Mr B says that on 4 and 5 January 2018  he encountered problems with the online election  
facility and was advised to call IISL instead. He says that over those two days  he called at 
least five times but his calls were  not answered,  despite him hanging on for at least  ten 
minutes on each occasion.  
On 5 January  2018, just before 5pm, Mr B sent a secure message explaining the problems 
he was having.  He followed this up with a letter  on 8 January 2018, asking IISL to review the 
situation and remedy his position.  He explained  that hed sold his existing shares on 4 
January 2018  at £5.82 per share, intending to take up the offer at £0.05 per share.  As a 
result of the problems hed encountered,  he calculated his immediate financial loss at £164.
IISL issued its final response letter on 5 March 2018, not upholding Mr Bs complaint. It said 
it was unclear why Mr B wasnt able to accept the corporate action online. But its Terms of 
Service stated that the company was unable  to guarantee that the website  would always be 
available. IISL also acknowledged that call volumes  had been  higher during that time,  but 
that customers were asked to stay on the line if their call was urgent. It concluded that Mr B 
had had sufficient  opportunity to make his election  in time. 
There followed some  further  correspondence, but Mr B remained  unhappy,  so brought his 
complaint to us.
Amongst other things Mr B said it was common practice to elect close to the deadline, that 
he shouldnt be penalised for IISLs high call volumes and that the standards  of service hed 
received fell well short  of what he should reasonably expect.
One of our investigators  looked in to Mr Bs concerns. She acknowledged  his frustrations 
but did not uphold his complaint. In summary,  she said that:
IISLs terms and conditions state  that it cannot  guarantee online access
Mr B had the option of submitting his election with more  time before the deadline
we couldnt  penalise IISL for having high call volumes when Mr B was trying to call
it wasnt reasonable to expect  a same day response to his secure message, and
IISL had responded to his complaint within  the timeframe set out by the regulator.
Mr B did not accept our investigators opinion. So his complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.  
Ref: DRN81650842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I dont doubt that Mr B experienced  difficulties with the online election facility over 4/5 
January 2018.  His account is supported by the contemporaneous evidence of his login 
history on those days, coupled with the text of his secure message on 5 January. But its not 
clear to me why this was. 
IISL has said that there were no reports of problems.  It said online election was made by 
other customers and provided  screenshot evidence  from 4 January 2018 to show  this. But in 
any event, IT issues do occur, and IISLs terms and conditions confirm  that service cannot 
be guaranteed.  
Mr B indicates that IISLs call waiting times were unreasonable and, in conjunction  with other 
issues, prevented him from making his election.  Ive seen information from IISL confirming 
that call volumes were high on 4/5 January 2018.  And service standards  did drop on those 
days. But I dont  think it would be fair to say that this makes IISL responsible for Mr Bs 
inability to take up the share offer.
Ive also considered what happened  after Mr B sent his secure  message.  IISL has said that it 
aims to respond to secure  messages within 1 working day, but it can be up to 5 working 
days at busier times. IISL responded  to Mr B on the third working day. And when Mr B raised 
his complaint, it responded within the timeframe set by the regulator.  So I dont think  IISL did 
anything wrong  in these respects.
Mr B has also said that Company S actual  offer closure date was some time after IISLs  
deadline - so there was still an opportunity for him to be included.  But I dont think  IISL acted 
unfairly in not accepting  Mr Bs request after its posted deadline. Stockbroking companies 
routinely ask shareholders  to submit their elections  in advance of the offer companys 
deadline, to ensure that all instructions are processed in time. Ultimately,  IISLs  deadline was 
clearly posted in the email notification of 20 December 2017.  And it was Mr Bs responsibility  
to submit his instructions  prior to that deadline. 
I understand Mr Bs arguments about  waiting  until close to the offer deadline to make his 
election decision. But in doing  so, he was increasing the risk of not being able to participate, 
should he encounter problems. 
And it was Mr Bs decision to sell his existing  stock when he did. Im also mindful that the 
share offer was subject to scaling, so Mr B sold his existing shares  with no guarantee of 
being able to reinvest to the same  level. 
Overall, Ive not found that IISL has done  anything wrong, or treated Mr B unfairly. So I dont 
accept that Mr B has lost out as a result  of IISLs actions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN81650843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Jo Chilvers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8165084