K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in July 2002. The store  account itself was 
opened in December 2001.
The policy cost £1.00 per £100 Mrs G owed on her store card.  The policy  would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs G couldnt work because  she 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning  below.
Mrs Gs PPI policy was sold over the phone. FICL  hasnt been able to provide a phone  call 
recording - although  this isnt surprising considering the length of time since the sale.  As the 
credit card account had been set up around seven months before the policy  was sold  I 
think Mrs G wouldve known the policy was optional. I also note that Mrs G says the PPI was 
added without her knowledge.  But without further  evidence to support what shes  told us, I 
think its more likely  she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs G and I think  thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs G clear enough  information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs G 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Mrs G has told us that she wouldve  received 12 months full sick pay if she was off work 
sick. She initially told us she was entitled  to between six and twelve months worth of sick 
pay. 12 months full sick pay is relatively  unusual and without paperwork to support what  
Ref: DRN86397782shes told us I think its unlikely her full sick pay entitlements wouldve  paid out for this length 
of time. The PPI would  have paid out on top of any employee benefits she wouldve received 
and until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance  was cleared  
whichever came first. And the policy would cover  the same term if she was to lose her job.
Mrs G also told us she had around  £3,000-£4,000  in savings. I note that she had initially  told 
us she had no savings  at the time of sale. Regardless, the PPI also wouldve allowed her to 
use any savings she did have to cover other necessary expenses  at what  couldve been a 
difficult time financially  if she found  herself out of work. So I still think  the policy couldve 
been useful to her. And overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been  told, 
I dont think Mrs G has lost out as a result  of anything FICL  did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8639778