K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with her home emergency  insurer Aviva Insurance Limited.  It has declined 
her claim for repair of a waste water pipe.
background
Ms B had a problem  with her waste pipe in 2015. Aviva attended and found there were 
cracks, fractures and holes in the pipe.  The pipe was lined.
In 2018 Ms B noticed  a funny smell in the area of the waste pipe and contacted Aviva again.  
Aviva attended but found no blockage. Experts acting  for Aviva,  and others acting for Ms Bs 
home insurer, found that the pipe had sunk (bellied) and whilst it was still free flowing, some 
water was being held (in the dip). Aviva said this wasnt covered. Aviva did note though  that 
it had cancelled an appointment and not called Ms B back  when it should have done. It 
offered £100 compensation.  
Ms B complained to this service. In her view Avivas repair  in 2015 had failed. Later  Ms B 
said she felt if this sinking  was really an issue then Aviva should have noticed during the 
2015 repair and told her then.
Our investigator felt that the problem likely  wasnt covered by Ms Bs policy because,  
amongst other reasons,  there was no blockage. She also found there was no evidence 
linking the current  issue to the 2015 repair or to show  that this problem existed at that time. 
She felt the compensation offered by Aviva was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms B remained of the view that Aviva is responsible for fixing  the pipe. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any upset this will cause Ms B, Im not minded to uphold  her complaint. I think 
Avivas decline of her claim and payment of compensation  were  fair and reasonable. 
Avivas policy  offers  cover for domestic  incidents  as well as emergencies. In respect of 
plumbing and drainage  the cover related to waste  pipes refers specifically to resolving leaks 
and/or blockages. Ms Bs drain isnt currently blocked or leaking. So I cant  fairly make Aviva  
accept her claim under the policy.
There is a report available  from 2015. In 2015  the pipe was found to be leaking. The leaks  
were resolved by the pipe being  lined. Theres no reference to the pipe bellying at that time. 
Im not persuaded, based on what Ive seen that the pipe was showing signs of sinking at 
that time.  And Im satisfied that the work Aviva did in 2015 didnt cause the problem being 
experienced now. The two are unrelated.  
Aviva could have handled  the claim better. I accept that Ms B has been caused some 
frustration and inconvenience. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN86330892my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ms B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8633089