K821x#15complaint
Mrs O says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs O took out in 2003.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.  
Ive decided that this PPI policy was mis-sold,  because I dont think  FICL gave Mrs O clear 
enough information about the policys exclusions.
This policy excluded  any sickness claims resulting from a pre-existing medical  condition.  At 
the time of the sale, Mrs O had a medical condition which shed been dealing  with for several 
years, and which wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt  have  claimed on the policy 
for everything she mightve  expected  to be able to.
I think that this wouldve  mattered to Mrs O. Her condition appears to have been one that 
would significantly affect her day-to-day  life. And it couldve  resulted in a number of very 
serious complications. Indeed, I think Mrs O wouldve considered  it the most likely condition  
to cause her to take time off work.  But the policy excluded  any sickness  claims that resulted 
from her condition.
I cant see that FICL gave  Mrs O clear information about this exclusion at the time of the 
sale. I think that if it had, then its most likely  Mrs O wouldnt have bought the PPI.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs O would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs O owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN85888412If Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund Mrs O 
has already received for the commission part of this PPI policy.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs O would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs O would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs O paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mrs O 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year .
D.FICL should tell Mrs O what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8588841