K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK plc trading as Cahoot blocked  a payment he tried to 
make. 
background
Mr C attempted to make a payment in January 2019 to a company he had made a number 
of previous payments to. He says the payment was declined despite receiving a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) and was eventually  told that security checks were being carried  out. Mr C 
says he lost about £30 due to exchange  rate changes and that Cahoot paid him £50 
compensation. Mr C would like answers  to his questions  about what  happened  rather than 
compensation.
Cahoot upheld  Mr Cs complaint and apologised  for what took place. It says the payment 
was blocked for security  reasons  but it had Mr Cs wifes telephone number as its first 
contact. Cahoot  has paid Mr C £50 as a goodwill gesture and says the account terms and 
conditions make clear that some  transactions may be declined  or delayed for security  
reasons.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Cahoot had given Mr C misleading information about his wifes telephone number and about 
an e-mail  it sent him. The investigator recommended Cahoot increase its compensation offer 
to £100 which he thought  took account  of what took place and that Mr C had passed 
Cahoots security.
Mr C doesnt accept  that view and in summary he says he would like a full letter of apology  
from a more senior member of Cahoot  with a greater explanation about what took place. He 
says there  are major  concerns about Cahoots systems and questions  how many other 
customers are in a similar  position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
I accept that fraud and the protection of customers money is a major concern  for banks and 
building societies. I am satisfied that Cahoot  makes  that clear  in its terms and conditions 
which I think Mr C would  have agreed  to when the account was opened, that it may decline 
or subject  certain  transactions to further  security  checks. So I dont think  Cahoot  made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by making the decision to carry out further security checks on Mr 
Cs payment. I accept that such security measures can cause inconvenience to customers 
but I also think that its up to a bank or building  society to decide upon  such  matters  when  
exercising its commercial  judgement and is not an area I can fairly interfere in.
I appreciate that in this case Mr C received  an OTP and later passed Cahoots  security 
questions. So I accept his frustration and concerns  in those circumstances.  I also accept that 
Cahoot gave Mr C misleading information  about  the reasons  for the security  checks and told 
him that it held his wifes  number as its first contact and couldnt explain the e-mail it sent Mr 
C. I am sure all of that caused Mr C inconvenience in having  to speak to Cahoot and I 
Ref: DRN80331402appreciate that he would like a more  detailed investigation into what  took place. But I am 
satisfied Cahoot  has apologised  for what took place and that over the course  of this 
complaint has tried as best as it can to explain what took place.  I accept that explanation 
doesnt answer all of Mr Cs questions but I dont think  Cahoot can do any more  to help Mr C 
or provide him with a more detailed explanation.
Im satisfied the total compensation offer of £100  is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects  the 
exchange rate loss Mr C suffered and the inconvenience he was caused. Im also satisfied 
that Cahoot has apologised and so I dont think it fair to order  it to issue  a further letter of 
apology. I dont think it matters what level of staff sent the letter of apology  as its Cahoot that 
is apologising and not the staff member. I cant fairly comment on any other complaints 
about the business or comment on Cahoots systems as we are not its regulator.
I appreciate Mr C is likely to remain  unhappy with my decision.  But I think  that brings an end 
to what we in trying  to sort out this complaint informally can do to assist Mr C. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK plc trading as 
Cahoot to pay Mr C a further £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8033140