K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) mishandled the 
handing back of a car when a hire purchase agreement was voluntary terminated. She also 
says that BMWFS unfairly charged  her for damage  found on the car when it was inspected.
background
In January 2017 Ms B entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  with BMWFS for a 
used car. The car was just over four years old and had a mileage of 32,000,
In February 2019  Ms B decided to voluntary terminate the agreement and hand the car back. 
An appointment was arranged for the car to be inspected and collected on behalf  of BMWFS 
by a third party  company.
On the day of the agreed collection the inspector  didnt arrive at the appointed time and 
Ms B had to then arrange  for the car to be collected  from her place of work. When the 
inspector did arrive Ms B was upset by their attitude and behaviour  which included smoking 
on the premises which was prohibited.  
Ms B says the inspector  did point out some  damage to the car and said she may be charged 
for it but had said in relation to a scratch on the car door that this could probably be polished 
out.
Ms B received an invoice for damage found on the car which  BMWFS said was beyond fair 
wear and tear. Damage  had been recorded  as chips to the rear bumper - £106,  scratch to 
one of the doors - £160 and a scratch to the wing -£106.There was also a charge for excess 
mileage. 
Ms B complained to BMWFS about both the invoice she had received and the behaviour of 
the inspector when  hed collected the car.
BMWFS partially  upheld  her complaint. It removed the charge for the chips  to the bumper 
and offered £50 compensation for the behaviour  of the inspector.  Ms B was unhappy at 
BMWFSs response  and complained to this service.
Ms B said she thought  the compensation was inadequate and, although she agreed the 
excess mileage charge, she thought the charge for the scratch to the door was unfair 
particularly as the inspector had said it could be polished out.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. She said that taking 
into account the behaviour of the inspector  on the day of collection £100  would be fair to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms B. Our investigator also said that 
although the scratch to the door was noticeable and would require repair  she thought  that, 
taking into account  the age of the car, the scratch to the wing should  fall under fair wear  and 
tear and not be chargeable.
The investigator also said that BMWFS had issued a default  notice  for the outstanding  
invoice, but Ms B had always said she was happy  to pay one amount  of £106 in respect  of 
the damage and the excess mileage. The investigator said that so long as this was settled  
promptly it would be fair for the default  notice  to be removed from Ms Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN85255752Ms B agreed with the investigators view but BMWFS disagreed. It said that the damage to 
the wing was chargeable in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines, which  were used by the industry to set the standard  as to 
what was and wasnt fair wear and tear on a vehicle that was returned when an agreement 
ended. BMWFS disagreed the damage to the wing was fair wear and tear for a used car.
BMWFS said it had agreed to increase the compensation to £75 which  it thought was fair to 
reflect the manner  in which the inspector had behaved.
BMWFS said that as it believed the invoice had been raised fairly it wasnt willing  to remove 
the adverse information from Ms Bs credit file.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that it isnt disputed  that the manner in which the inspector behaved on the day the 
car was collected would have caused Ms B unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience. 
BMWFS says that £75 fairly  reflects the impact this had on Ms B. Ive seen  that this was 
more than just being  late, but also concerned their attitude and smoking at Ms Bs works 
premises. Taking into account where  Ms B works,  I think  compensation of £100 is fair and 
reasonable. The behaviour caused  her considerable embarrassment with her new employer.
BMWFS says that the BVRLA guidelines apply in exactly  the same  way regardless of the 
age of the car being returned.  Our investigator was of the view that when a car is older, as 
was the case  here, then the guidance  can be used  as a reference  as a certain amount of 
wear and tear should be expected to a cars bodywork.
I think that there is an unavoidable natural deterioration of a cars  bodywork due to day-to-
day use. So I think that it would be unfair to judge a car that was around  six years old by 
exactly the same standards as a newer  one that has had less use in regards to acceptable 
wear and tear to the bodywork. 
Looking at the inspection report,  that comes  complete with photos of the damage, the 
scratch to the wing appears minor and the photo  isnt clear as to how deep  it is, whereas the 
scratch to the door is more visible,  is longer and looks deeper as it has gone down to the 
primer. Im satisfied that it would be fair to consider the scratch to the wing as fair wear and 
tear and therefore not chargeable.
So I think its reasonable for BMWFS  to invoice Ms B for the excess mileage and the scratch 
to the door. From this amount the compensation of £100 should  be deducted leaving Ms B 
with a total to pay of £67.26 to pay.
Ms B has always said she would pay for one amount of £106 in respect  of the damage  to the 
car and for the excess mileage and I think  this is what she should be fairly required to pay. I 
appreciate that BMWFS say it was correct to issue the invoice as it did, but in these  
circumstances I think it would be fair for any adverse  information about the non-payment of 
this invoice to be removed from Ms Bs credit file and Im asking BMWFS to do this.
Ref: DRN85255753Ms B has raised with this service the negative impact the adverse  information on her credit 
file has had. However, I think that is separate complaint to this one and if she wishes  to 
purse that then Ms B should complain first to BMWFS to allow  it to investigate. 
So for the reasons given above  Im upholding Ms Bs complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint. Im asking BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to do the following:
Remove the charge of £106 for the scratch to the wing of the car from the invoice. 
Increase the compensation to Ms B to £100 to reflect the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused when the car was collected.
Remove any adverse  information from your credit file relating to the non-payment of 
the invoice for damage and excess mileage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8525575