K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) changed its terms and access which meant 
he couldnt use its service  the way he wanted,  and gave poor service when he complained.
background
Mr B opened  an app-based electronic money account with Revolut in 2016 and transferred 
money into it. At the time it was possible to top up funds up to an agreed limit without 
verifying his identity and Mr B says this why he opened the account. He says hes concerned 
about fraud so hes unwilling to share his identity  documents online. 
In March 2018 Mr B tried to top up his Revolut account but it failed because he needed to 
verify his identity. Revolut  says its terms changed  in 2017  after new money  laundering 
regulations were introduced - and users needed  to verify their identity for all top ups in 
future. It says Mr B was contacted by text message to tell him about the new terms and 
conditions in advance  but hadnt rejected  them. Mr B didnt verify his identity or complete the 
top up in March 2017 because he decided to run down his balance and close  the account.
In August  2018  Mr B contacted Revolut because his card wasnt working.  Revolut said it was 
because he hadnt  verified his identity.  Because of this, Mr B asked for the remaining 
balance on his account to be returned  and Revolut asked him to provide details of the bank 
account the money would  be sent to. Mr B didnt agree to this because of security  concerns. 
There was considerable back and forth about the issue  from 4 August until 16 October  
through the apps chat system. Mr Bs money  was sent back on 15 October. 
On 4 August  Mr B tried to raise a complaint through Revoluts chat system but the session 
disconnected and his complaint wasnt recorded.  Mr B mentioned that he had a complaint to 
Revolut agents  during  August and September and one agent  sent him a link to record  his 
complaint, but nobody  recorded the complaint  on his behalf or checked if it had been set up.  
After being contacted by our service, Revolut  issued a final response letter on 7 September.  
Revolut didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint because its terms and conditions  allow  it to require 
identity details and Mr B had been  notified of the new terms before  they were  introduced.  
Revolut also said that Mr B caused  the delay by not providing details of his bank account.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Revoluts final response and asked our service  for an independent 
view. He complains that Revolut mis-sold  the product by changing  the terms after he opened 
his account; changed its app so it no longer  worked on his phone;  blocked  his card without 
notice; didnt return his money promptly after he asked for it; and didnt acknowledge to his 
complaint and have  given  poor customer service. Our investigator  considered  didnt uphold  
the complaint  because  they thought that Revolut  had acted reasonably when  it changed the 
account terms, and when it asked Mr B to confirm his details before returning his money. Mr 
B disagreed with this view entirely  so asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B has raised several individual points 
in his complaint  and I have considered all of these, although my decision focuses on what I 
consider to be the crux of the issue.
Ref: DRN80565952I can see that changes  to Revoluts terms and app over time meant  that Mr B couldnt use 
the service as hed expected, then he had difficulty  closing his account for similar reasons. I 
understand that the situation  wouldve  been very frustrating for Mr B and took longer to 
resolve than he expected.  But  for reasons Ill explain below  I think Revolut acted 
reasonably when it made these changes.  
Revolut required all customers to provide identity verification from 2017. Revolut says  and 
I have no reason to doubt  that the changes were  because of new money laundering 
regulations affecting  financial services  companies.  So although the change was inconvenient 
to Mr B personally, I dont  think it would  be fair to find Revolut at fault for responding to new 
regulations intended to protect consumers. 
And Im satisfied that Revolut was entitled  to do this under the terms and conditions that    
Mr B accepted when  he opened his account.  Revolut says - and I have no reason to doubt 
that this is correct - that the terms and conditions that were in place in 2016 said that you 
agree to cooperate with all requests made  by us or any of our third party  service  providers 
on our behalf in connection  with your Revolut Account, to identify or authenticate  your 
identity or validate  your funding sources or Revolut Transactions. This may include,  but not 
limited to, asking you for further information  that will allow  Revolut to reasonably  identify you, 
including requiring you to take steps to confirm ownership of your phone  number or payment 
instruments or verifying your Information  against  third party databases  or through  other 
sources. Because of this, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with the terms 
when it asked Mr B to provide identify verification and I think  the change  was reasonable. 
The terms also say we reserve the right to close, suspend, or limit access to your Revolut 
Electronic Money Account  and/or the Revolut Services in the event we are unable to obtain,  
verify such Information or you do not comply  with our requests under 7.1 of these Terms. 
So although  Mr B was annoyed  when  his card was stopped, I think Revolut was also entitled 
to do this under the account  terms.
Mr B argues  that the changes  meant he was mis-sold the service.  But Im satisfied that his 
Revolut account  worked  in the way he expected when he first opened  it and that Revolut 
was entitled to change its identity requirements  as it did here. So although  the account 
wasnt right for Mr Bs needs as a result  of these changes, I dont accept that was always  the 
case or that Revolut misrepresented the situation to Mr B when he opened the account.
Revolut says it notified Mr B of the changes to the terms before they took effect, although it 
hasnt got records  of the message. Because Revolut  says it contacted all its affected 
customers at the time, on the balance of probability I think that Mr B was messaged  - but he 
might not have appreciated the relevance of this change to him. In any case, I dont think  this 
changed the outcome here because  if hed rejected the new terms, he wouldve needed to 
close his account  as he did later. The account didnt cost him anything  in the meantime.
Ref: DRN80565953Revolut offered to return Mr Bs money  when  he asked to close  his account rather  than verify 
his identity. Mr B was understandably annoyed  when  he was asked to provide proof of his 
bank account  to get his money  back, when this type of request was exactly why he wanted  
to close his account  and I know he thinks Revolut  was deliberately  making it hard for him 
to get his money. But Revolut says that because so much time had passed since  hed made  
the payment it couldnt simply reverse it, so it needed to confirm the bank account details to 
make the payment. And although I sympathise with Mr Bs annoyance and his reluctance  to 
share his details, I think Revolut was acting reasonably by checking it was sending  money  to 
the right place. Im not persuaded that this was a deliberate attempt to keep Mr Bs money 
and I dont think it would be fair to say Revolut acted unreasonably  here.
Its unfortunate that it took some  time for Mr Bs balance to be returned and that there were 
so many messages  between him and different Revolut agents. I think  the delay was partly 
due to this back  and forth - and partly  because Mr B and Revolut couldnt agree on whether  
hed provide bank account details. This wouldve  been particularly  annoying for Mr B 
because he has trouble accessing the app to send  and receive  messages, and hed already 
had some technical problems with the app. But I dont think it took an excessive  amount  of 
time to resolve considering it wasnt a straightforward situation and Mr B wouldve been 
aware that Revolut  was an app-based service when he opened his account. 
When Mr B first asked to register a complaint  on 4 August, the chat session dropped  out 
before it was done. From the transcripts, I believe Mr B thought  his complaint had been 
logged because from then on he regularly asked other agents for a deadlock letter. But they 
didnt check if a complaint  had been recorded  or ask what he was talking about. And another  
agent sent Mr B a link to the website to register complaints, but again didnt check  what  had 
happened to Mr Bs original complaint. 
I can see the situation wouldve been  confusing  because there were lots of short,  interrupted  
chat sessions.  I think  this was due to the difficulty Mr B had logging on to the app and 
staying online to complete conversations, which wasnt his fault or Revoluts. That meant  Mr 
B dealt  with a lot of different Revolut customer service agents  and he often asked for the 
deadlock letter at the start of a new chat session, before hed been connected to a live 
customer service  agent. I think Revoluts agents couldve taken more care to follow  up on 
the complaint,  particularly  because Mr B was obviously unhappy with the situation.  But on 
balance, I think this was a genuine error by the Revolut agents and not an attempt to stop Mr 
B from recording  a complaint. Revolut says its given its customer service  agents training on 
these situations  and  because I think this was an understandable  mix up that didnt change  
the outcome - I wont  be asking Revolut to do anything more here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8056595