K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the charges  Arval UK Limited (AUL) is requiring him to pay following 
the end of his car leasing agreement.
background 
Mr S says an agent collected the car when he wasnt present and took eight dubious and out 
of focus photos  on a very bright day. He says the car hadnt been washed and he was sure 
of two marks that he knew hed have to pay for. However, he says hes also been charged 
for two other items of damage that he disputes.
Mr S also says AUL sent him an MOT reminder for his car, but it had someone elses details 
on it, showing that persons name and address. So, Mr S says hes concerned AUL may also 
have sent his personal details to the wrong recipient.
During our investigation AUL offered to remove the charge of £80 for one of the items  of 
damage Mr S had complained about, reducing the total outstanding  damage charges to 
£390.
Our adjudicator thought this was reasonable and that Mr Ss complaint should be partly  
upheld on this basis. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said AUL should  reduce the balance  
of £390 by 50% to settle the complaint because he thought the prices for the repair work 
were too excessive. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ss complaint  and to require AUL to reduce the damage  
charges its requiring him to pay by £80, leaving a balance due of £390. Ill explain why.
I see Mr Ss leasing agreement  says that on termination the condition  of the car would be 
assessed by reference to a set of guidelines  widely recognised in the vehicle leasing 
industry. The agreement  also says AUL would invoice Mr S for repairs (whether or not 
carried out) if the car was subject  to damage which would constitute  unfair  wear  and tear 
according to those guidelines.  
The principle  underlying the guidelines  Ive referred  to is that car leasing businesses should  
be able to recover the cost of any damage  likely to have an adverse impact  on the resale 
value of the car. 
Im pleased to see that AULs now agreed to waive the £80 charge  for a scratch to the 
bumper, so the only outstanding charge  Mr S specifically disputes  relates  to a charge of 
£135 for a scratched offside quarter  panel.    
Ref: DRN88772472Ive looked carefully  at the image showing the scratch to the quarter  panel  and Ive looked at 
the industry standard guidelines  against which Mr Ss car was inspected at the end of his 
leasing agreement.  And Im satisfied from what Ive seen that AULs decision to charge Mr S 
for this damage is in accordance with those guidelines. 
I also see that the repair cost for each item of damage identified  was determined by the 
business that carried out the inspection. Thats normal practice in the vehicle leasing 
industry and I havent seen anything to lead me to conclude the charges are excessive or 
unreasonable. So, whilst I acknowledge Mr S considers the repair  work could be carried  out 
more cheaply,  I cant  uphold this aspect of his complaint and I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to require AUL to reduce the outstanding damage charges  any further.
I note Mr S is also unhappy about receiving documentation from AUL containing another 
persons name and address and hes concerned  that this suggests his own information may 
have also been  mistakenly shared with third parties. I havent seen anything indicating        
Mr Ss personal details have been shared in this way, so I dont have  enough information to 
uphold this aspect  of his complaint.
So, for these reasons,  I partly uphold Mr Ss complaint and require AUL to reduce the 
damage charges  by £80, leaving a balance due of £390. 
 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Ss complaint against Arval UK Limited. It must reduce the damage 
charges its requiring him to pay by £80.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8877247