K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a CIFAS marker  placed  against Mr M following a mortgage 
application that he made to Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax in 2016.  Mr M says it 
caused him to lose a new job because the employer found the CIFAS marker after hed 
started working. He wants the marker removed and compensation for loss of earnings.
Although the complaint arises from a joint application Mr M made with his mother, its about 
a CIFAS marker recorded solely against Mr M, so only he needs to bring the complaint.
background
Mr M applied  for the mortgage in 2016.  Halifax granted the mortgage  but later found what it 
considered was conflicting  information  about Mr Ms income. It placed the CIFAS marker. 
Our investigator thought Halifaxs action was reasonable. Mr M says it must have been a 
mistake by the broker that introduced  the mortgage  application.
The case  comes to me to review and decide whats fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to consider here is whether Halifax was justified in applying the CIFAS 
marker. Mr M is understandably unhappy and frustrated at not being given much detail about 
the reason for the marker. The bank has told us the reasons for its decision, but in 
confidence.
Our rules permit this; either party to a complaint  can submit evidence  it would  prefer  the 
other side not to see. Its then for me to decide whether its fair to rely on evidence  that only 
one party has seen.  Our rules give me that discretion, and Im not required to justify to either 
side in the dispute how that discretion has been exercised. Im impartial  from the parties to 
the complaint  and dont take their instructions  on how I deal with a complaint.
The information (and its source) is sensitive and on balance I dont believe it should be 
disclosed. But its also clearly material to the issue of whether Halifax  has treated Mr M fairly. 
So Im persuaded  I should take it into account when deciding the outcome of the complaint.
Thats what  Ive done, and the conclusion  Ive reached is that Halifax  didnt  act unreasonably when 
it applied the CIFAS  marker. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I make no order or award. My final decision concludes  this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the 
merits of it.
Ref: DRN84389602Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 16 February 2019 .
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8438960