K821x#15complaint
Miss J has complained about a loan Avant Credit of UK, LLC (trading  as Avant Credit) 
provided to her in 2015. Shes  said that the loan was irresponsibly given  to her as she had a 
poor credit rating due to having  had a number of payday loans. Miss J also says the loan 
contributed to a dependent borrowing cycle which lasted for years and which had a huge 
impact on her financial situations and mental health.  
background
Miss J approached Avant  Credit for a loan in July 2017. Miss J was provided with a loan of 
£6000 and this was to be repaid over 36 monthly  instalments of £274.39.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Avant  Credit  and Miss J said. She thought that it was 
unfair for Avant Credit to have provided  this loan to Miss J. Avant Credit  disagreed  and as it 
did so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
Avant Credit lent to Miss J while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Avant  Credit.      
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back  to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
Ref: DRN81249272[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
Ref: DRN81249273(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Avant Credit  complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that  
Miss J would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss J wouldve been  able to do so?
Did Avant Credit  act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Avant Credit didnt act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss J and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did Avant  Credit complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Miss J 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time Avant Credit lent to Miss J required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss J could afford to repay her 
loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
Ref: DRN81249274The affordability check had to be borrower-focused  so Avant Credit had to think  about 
whether Miss J would  be able to repay  the loan sustainably. In practice  this meant  that Avant 
Credit had to have enough  in order to be able to reasonably conclude that making the 
payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss J undue  difficulty  or adverse consequences.  In 
other words, it wasnt enough  for Avant Credit to simply think about  the likelihood  of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that Avant Credit completed  for Miss Js 
loan was proportionate, I have some  overall  observations about its defence of its case.
Avant Credit says it carried out a number of checks before it decided to lend to Miss J. It 
says that it carried out a credit check and this together  with the income and expenditure 
information provided by Miss J was evaluated by its industry-leading risk assessment 
model. From what I can see, Avant  Credit  appears  to be relying on heavily on Miss Js 
application having been evaluated by its model. But it hasnt provided any detail about  the 
parameters of its industry-leading risk assessment  model. I get the impression that it expects 
us to simply accept its lending model  always results in a fair lending  decision being made. 
To be clear, Avant Credit is responsible for the lending approved by its systems. This service  
cannot and will not search through dozens of pages  of coded information  looking for 
evidence to support  Avant Credits defence of its model and Miss Js complaint. Id also point 
Ref: DRN81249275out that the use of such a model  isnt in itself demonstrative  of the fact that Avant Credits 
process leads to fair lending decisions. 
Given Avant Credit insists that Miss Js loan was responsibly lent, it ought to know  and 
have explained   how it interpreted the information it gathered and what  exactly  it was that 
led to a responsible  lending  decision being  made  in this case. Without this explanation from 
Avant Credit, I cannot and will not take it as read that this lending decision was fair. 
Were Avant Credits checks  reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought  about what Avant Credit has said, I dont think that its checks did go 
far enough.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
Miss Js loan required her to make payments of around £275  for around two years. So the 
total charge for Miss Js credit was in excess of £4000.  Im also mindful  that Avant Credit 
says that Miss J was asked what the purpose  of this loan was and she said that she was 
going to use the funds  to consolidate existing debts.  
At this point, it might be helpful for me to explain  that bearing in mind Avant Credits 
regulatory obligations as well as good industry practice, a less detailed  affordability 
assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the 
consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  the borrower is being expected to maintain 
payments for a longer  period of time,  the cost of the credit is high and the purpose  of the 
loan is to consolidate existing debt, I think that any affordability assessment needs to be 
more detailed and contain a greater  degree  of verification and scrutiny, in order  for it to be 
fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think that Avant  Credit needed  to get a thorough  
understanding of Miss Js financial  position. So as well as asking Miss J about the details of 
her income and expenditure, I think that Avant  Credit needed to take steps to verify what it 
was being told by Miss J and scrutinise the information received. 
Equally given the purpose of the loan was recorded  as debt consolidation and Avant  Credits  
credit search flagged up a substantial  amount  of existing debt I also think  that Avant  Credit  
ought to have taken steps to establish which debts,  if any, Miss J would actually  be 
consolidating with this loan. By failing  to do so, Avant Credit ran the risk of increasing         
Miss Js debt unsustainably. Id also question how could  it possibly  have worked out what 
Miss Js disposable income  would  be going forward without having  any idea of which credit 
commitments shed  still be left with after she was given this loan. 
As theres  no evidence  that Avant Credit did properly scrutinise the information  on the credit 
check, the purpose of the loan or the information it obtained from Miss J, I dont think it 
completed reasonable and proportionate  affordability  checks before providing this loan.
Ref: DRN81249276Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to Avant  Credit  that Miss J 
would have been unable to sustainably repay  the loan?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Avant Credit that it was unfair to offer this loan to Miss J. 
Miss J has provided us with evidence  of her financial  circumstances at the time she applied  
for the loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Miss J has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Avant Credit mightve carried  out. But in the absence of 
anything else from Avant  Credit showing what this information would have shown, I think  its 
perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication  of what   
Miss Js financial  circumstances were  likely  to have been at the time.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that, in my view,  Avant  Credit  was required 
to establish whether Miss J could sustainably make  her loan repayments   not just whether 
the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being  affordable  on this could be an indication  that a consumer  
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  CONC  defines  sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And, in my view, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Miss J has provided in light of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows Miss J had an overdraft which  she was in 
continually in, in the months  leading up to this loan application. And Miss J didnt see a credit  
balance even when  she received her monthly salary. Indeed Miss J was struggling to make 
ends meet to such an extent that she was even  supplementing her overdraft by using short  
term loans from a number  of different providers. Indeed what Ive seen suggests (and the 
information Avant Credit  is aware of) Miss J had taken, at least, 72 payday  loans for a 
cumulative amount of approaching £43,000.  
Ive also thought about the argument Avant Credit has made about Miss J not having had 
returned direct debits, which it considers to be an indication of financial difficulty. I have 
concerns that Avant Credit appears to be arguing that returned direct debits are the only 
indicator of a consumer  being in financial difficulty. But, in any event,  even if I were  to leave 
my concerns  about Avant  Credits point to one side, the information it has provided  us with 
shows it ought to have been  aware that Miss J did have a number of returned direct debits in 
the period leading up to her taking this loan. So it seems to me that the information  Avant  
Credit itself was in possession of ought  to have  alerted it to the fact that Miss Js 
circumstances meant  that she met its own definition of experiencing financial difficult.   
And, in these circumstances, I cant see any fair, reasonable or rational basis  for Avant 
Credit advancing  this loan to Miss J. So overall think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks, involving  even  the most basic degree  of rational scrutiny of the information obtained, 
Ref: DRN81249277would, in itself,  have alerted Avant  Credit  to the fact that Miss J would not be able to 
sustainably make the repayments to this loan.     
Did Avant  Credit act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Avant  Credit  acted unfairly or unreasonably  towards  Miss J in 
some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
three of this decision,  I think that Avant Credit unfairly and unreasonably provided Miss J 
with this loan because it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and its 
more likely than not that such checks wouldve shown Avant Credit that Miss Js wouldnt be 
able to sustainably  repay the loan. So Avant Credit shouldnt have provided the loan to   
Miss J. 
As Miss J ended up paying interest and charges on a loan proportionate checks  would more  
likely than not have  shown shed be unable to sustainably repay, I think  that she lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong.  So Avant  Credit should put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  Avant  Credit  needs  to do to put things right  for Miss J
Ive carefully thought  about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean Avant Credit 
putting Miss J in the position shed now be in if he hadnt been given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Miss J 
was given the loan in question and shes used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Miss J back  in the 
position she would be in if she hadnt  been  given this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to fully explain 
the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Avant Credit to put things 
right in the following way.
interest and charges 
As Ive explained, Miss J received  the funds for this loan and shes  used them.  So I think  its 
fair that she pays back what she borrowed. In reality its the interest that Miss J had to pay 
Avant Credit on the loan that is the problem, as she kept having to find additional funds 
(usually through borrowing  elsewhere)  to pay this interest. 
And she then had to borrow again, on a number of occasions, to either repay  others or cover  
the hole left in her finances and she incurred more  interest and charges when she did this. 
So to start with, I think that Avant  Credit  should refund any interest  and charges Miss J has 
paid as a result of this loan. 
Ref: DRN81249278Ive also given thought to the argument that Miss J had to borrow   from elsewhere   in 
order to repay the interest and charges she paid to Avant  Credit  and so she should be 
refunded any borrowing  costs she incurred to pay Avant Credits  interest and charges.
I accept that there were  occasions where  Miss J was simply cycling  money around 
borrowing from multiple sources in order to pay debts. For example, its clear  that Miss J 
made a number of payments by using  her overdraft.  And, in circumstances, where it is clear 
that a consumer incurred additional  costs in order to be able to repay a lenders interest and 
charges, it might be appropriate  to direct a lender to pay the consumer extra compensation 
to cover those additional  costs.
But, in this case, Miss J is borrowing from so many different sources.  And I cant  see a clear  
correlation showing that funds from a particular source (or sources)  of credit directly went  
towards repaying Avant Credits interest  and charges. In other words, I cant  say exactly  
what directly additional  cost Miss J incurred  at a given time.  So, in these circumstances, 
I dont think that Avant Credit should  refund extra interest because Miss J mightve paid 
interest elsewhere in order to repay  her Avant  Credit loans.
That said,  its clear that Miss J did lose the use of the funds she used to pay the interest, 
I now think that Avant Credit needs to refund to her. As Miss J lost the use of these funds, 
I think that she should be compensated for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid 
(in other words any overpayments over and above  the amount of money Miss J received), is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Miss Js credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.  As the 
monetary award Im making reflects this, I see no reason to depart  from our typical approach 
in this case. So I think that Avant Credit should  remove any adverse information recorded on 
Miss Js credit file as a result of this loan.  
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of     
Miss Js complaint for Avant  Credit  to put things right in the following way:
refund  all interest, fees and charges Miss J paid;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they were  
paid by Miss J to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Js credit file as a result  of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN81249279my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Js complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
(trading as Avant Credit) should pay Miss J compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124927