K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained that Old Mill Financial Planning LLP (Old Mill) charged him a £764 on-
going servicing fee, but provided  no service for his pension.
background
Mr C complained that between 1 December 2015 and 30 November 2016 Old Mill didnt 
provide him with any service but charged  him £764. Hed checked  with the pension scheme 
and Old Mill hadnt  accessed his pension account  during that time.  He wanted a full refund of 
the charges taken. He didnt believe they had done any work  to merit the charges.
Old Mill said Mr C had signed an agreement with it on 25 November 2015. The terms were 
set out in a customer  service proposition  and covered ad-hoc advice with an ongoing cost of 
0.5% of assets invested. Mr C had signed an adviser charges form to allow Old Mill to 
receive payment  from his pension scheme.
Old Mill said it advised Mr C in early 2015  but by the summer  it became clear Mr C would 
need to transfer  his pension to a new provider. The transfer was started in November 2015 
and completed in March  2016. A fee of £600  was paid for the work on the transfer.
Old Mill didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint stating hed signed a Letter  of Engagement agreeing  
to pay the £600 implementation fee as well as the ongoing fee of 0.5%.However,  the 
business confirmed  that no further charges would be taken by Old Mill. In order to resolve 
Mr Cs complaint, the business  offered  him £382.50 as a goodwill  gesture.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said I had reviewed the contract terms set out in 
the customer proposition  between  Mr C and Old Mill and referred to in the letter of 25 
November 2015.  In particular it said the following:-
A fee of 0.5% was payable  for an ad hoc service available  when Mr C requested  it. 
Old Mill would  issue  an annual investment summary and keep Mr C up to date on the 
value of all the investments  held on his behalf.  
It would  undertake a fund review to monitor performance and advise on any changes 
it believed were  necessary.
It would  provide an update service and would  write every  January to highlight  various  
tax allowances.
While some aspects  of the service were  ad hoc and required Mr C to initiate contact it is 
clear that there were aspects that required  Old Mill to initiate.
Old Mill thought  Mr C might have  misunderstood  the arrangement as a discretionary 
investment management  service but this wasnt the case. It wasnt aware of the underlying  
investments in Mr Cs pension. It didnt know why Mr C hadnt taken advantage of the ad hoc 
service but it was still entitled  to payment even if Mr C didnt make contact.
I noted Old Mill gave  advice in July 2015 regarding moving his pension to a new provider. 
This was actioned and a fee of £600  paid. That amount isnt disputed  by Mr C.
Ref: DRN88806002The regulator issued  a factsheet  (Factsheet  010) in September 2014 stating that ongoing  
adviser charges  such as these may only be levied  where an ongoing advice is supplied. An 
example it provides is regularly reviewing the performance of the clients  investments. As 
these terms were entered into in 2015 it is clear  that Old Mill shouldnt have been  making  
charges without providing a service for the ongoing  service. 
Apart from dealing  with the transfer of pension for which  a fee of £600 was paid,  I have seen 
no evidence to show that Mr C was contacted proactively during the twelve month  period in 
question to provide  any of the ongoing  services  set out in the client  service  provision.
I was of the view that Old Mill failed to meet the requirements for ongoing services  set out by 
the regulator and had failed to meet its contractual commitments for the provision of service.
I therefore proposed  to uphold this complaint and direct that Old Mill should refund  Mr M the 
£764.26 he has paid plus 8% simple interest  from the date of each  payment  to the date of 
my final decision.
Mr C said had nothing further to add.
Old Mill said it had been dealing  with Mr C since 1998 and was therefore  aware  of the 
investments in the pension as it had recommended them. The fact it hadnt logged  into 
Mr Cs account was irrelevant as it received regular statements which  enabled it to review  
performance. It had received valuations in April and October 2016 and in the period from 1 
December 2015  to 30 November 2016 there  was an overall increased of 5.32%. It said it had 
been in regular contact during the time of the pension transfer and had multiple exchanges 
about withdrawing money tax efficiently and updating expression of wish forms. It said the 
key reason Mr C subscribed  to the ongoing service was to receive advice on tax efficient 
withdrawals so that he could make  contact on an ongoing basis.  It offered to supply 
documentary evidence  to evidence this further  contact.  It was asked to produce that 
evidence but failed to do so.
Mr C commented on the reply from Old Mill and said that during the period 1 December 
2015 to 30 November 2016  he didnt  ask them for any advice by letter,  telephone or email  
and received no yearly  statements. His account showed that no investment or disinvestment 
actions were taken during  that time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed my mind  as I have seen no supporting evidence to show 
that Old Mill provided  services during the period in question.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that that Old Mill Financial Planning LLP should pay Mr M the £764.26 he has paid 
plus 8% simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of my final decision.
Old Mill Financial Planning LLP must pay the total compensation  within  28 days of the date 
on which Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay further 
Ref: DRN88806003interest on the compensation from the date of the final decision until the date of payment at 
the rate of 8% simple  per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from the interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr C can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr C should refer back to Old Mill Financial  Planning LLP if he is unsure of the approach it 
has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs  if they want  to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8880600