K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that a motorbike he has been financing  through  an agreement with Black  
Horse Limited, trading  as Black Horse  Finance (Black Horse),  has not been of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Mr L has been represented by his solicitor  throughout  this complaint but for ease I will refer 
to Mr L in this decision.
Mr L took receipt of a new motorbike in March 2017.  He financed the deal through  a three 
year hire purchase agreement with Black Horse but hes had problems with the bike and he 
now wants to reject it.
Within weeks of taking  charge  of the bike Mr L says he had to have repairs completed  to the 
flywheel which had become scorched. The repairs were carried  out free of charge under the 
warranty.
In June 2018 when the bike had completed about 4,000 miles Mr L says there  was a 
problem with the oil valve stem seals which caused the bike to smoke. Again this work was 
completed free of charge  under warranty but the bike wasnt returned  to Mr L until early  
August 2018 and by that time hed told Black  Horse that he wanted to reject  the bike and 
terminate his finance agreement.
Black Horse  would not allow a rejection.  They explained that they were only responsible for 
the quality of the bike when it was supplied to Mr L and that they were not responsible  for 
problems that occurred subsequently.  They were persuaded that the initial problem  with the 
flywheel was most likely  to have been present or developing at the point of supply. They  paid 
Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this would have caused him.
But Black Horse did not accept responsibility  for the problem which occurred in June 2018. 
They said there was no evidence the fault was there, or developing, at the point of supply so 
although the warranty covered the cost of the repair, they were not responsible  for it or for 
the losses Mr L said hed incurred as a consequence i.e. obtaining a suitable replacement  
whilst his bike was being repaired.
Mr L disagreed with Black Horse.  He was also disappointed that the bike was the subject of 
a manufacturing  recall in December  2018. He said this further demonstrated that it was not 
of satisfactory quality and he referred his complaint to this service  where  our investigator 
provided her opinion.
She explained that where there was a fault at the point of supply the business had the right 
to repair  the vehicle. She was satisfied that the initial fault with the flywheel was the 
business responsibility but she noted they had successfully repaired the bike.  She wasnt 
persuaded that there was sufficient evidence the subsequent problem was the result of an 
issue developing at the inception of the deal and she therefore  didnt think  it was Black  
Horses responsibility or that they needed to reimburse Mr L for any consequential losses  
hed experienced.
She went on to consider  the manufacturing  recall but she didnt think this was a reason why 
Black Horse  should allow rejection. Overall, she was satisfied that the £100 Black  Horse had 
Ref: DRN86361552provided in relation to the initial breakdown was sufficient and she didnt  think  it would be fair 
to ask them to take any further  action.
But Mr L disagreed  and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr L so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his bike under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the bike should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Black Horse,  who are also the supplier of the bike,  are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a bike the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the bike was supplied to Mr L. This was a 
new bike so I would  not expect there to be any faults  with it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the bike was faulty when supplied and this fault made the bike not of satisfactory 
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.  
In the first instance  the relevant legislation allows Black Horse  one opportunity to repair a 
fault thats present or developing  at the point  of supply. Im satisfied that here the first fault 
with the flywheel was their responsibility and that they took the appropriate action.  The bike 
was repaired and Mr L received what I think was a reasonable level of compensation in the 
circumstances.
Black Horses responsibility for the bike is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
The relevant  legislation  says that:
Ref: DRN86361553goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case. And here I dont think Ive been provided  with sufficient information to show  the 
problem with the oil leak was present or developing at the point of supply. Im persuaded that 
due to the age of the bike at the time (it was over a year old) its more  likely the fault had 
developed at some point  after the inception of the finance agreement.  
I understand that Mr L received a manufacturers  recall but I dont think thats evidence of a 
fault with the bike at the onset of the agreement. The recall appears to have  been  a 
preventative measure to eliminate a potential issue with the bike.  Im not persuaded that 
there was anything wrong with the bike: only that the manufacturer had identified  that 
something may go wrong and wanted to prevent it.
So overall, Im not persuaded that Black Horse  need  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8636155