K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Canada Square Operations Limited (who were  trading at the time as Egg) mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy on a credit  card in 2003.  For simplicity 
Ill refer to the business as Egg for the rest of this decision.
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2003  in connection  with a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
So the questions  I need to consider are whether  Egg gave Mrs S information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she could make an informed 
choice about the insurance she was buying.  And whether in giving any advice or 
recommendation, Egg took adequate steps  to ensure the product  it recommended  was 
suitable for her needs. 
Egg has said it did not give Mrs S any advice  about whether she should take out the policy.  I 
need make  no firm finding on this because, having assessed this case on the lower  test  a 
non-advised sale  and for the reasons  given  below, I do not think  that Egg ensured Mrs S 
was in a position to make a properly informed choice. 
I am upholding  Mrs Ss complaint because I think that Mrs Ss employment  status  would 
have made  it hard to claim  under the terms of the policy, most likely. I say this because  
Mrs S has told us that she was a temporary worker through  an employment agency  at the 
time of the sale. 
EGG told us that the terms that apply to this policy state that unemployment cover is not 
provided if the person is, employed on a temporary  basis. So it seems that Mrs S would 
have not been able to claim for unemployment benefit if she was made unemployed from her 
job. I think this is something  that she wouldve thought important.
The term is found in the policy document that Egg has provided but this term was a 
significant one and needed to be sufficiently highlighted  to Mrs S. Having looked at all the 
submissions made in this case I do not think it Egg has demonstrated that it made clear that 
there may be restrictions to when  a person could claim  for unemployment.  So I dont think 
Mrs S was given enough information about  the policy when she decided to take it out.  
Egg has questioned whether Mrs S was in fact working as a temporary worker at the time of 
the sale. I have  considered that when completing  the credit  card application, Mrs S chose  to 
describe herself  as being employed.  Mrs S has said that she chose that description  as she 
was working  i.e. she was employed. She felt that she had not selected an inaccurate 
Ref: DRN85053992description of her working life. So whilst its disappointing that Mrs S didnt  choose  a more 
accurate description  of her work, I read nothing particularly negative  into it. 
In saying that, I have  had due regard to the submissions made by Egg and in particular  the 
details collected  about Mrs S from the point of sale. And I have considered that these record  
Mrs S as working for a nursing agency in its application details. And I have  considered that 
when bringing  her complaint to us, Mrs S told us she worked for a different agency than the 
one she told Egg about at the time of the sale.  However,  I have noted  that Mrs S has been 
consistent in saying that she was working in a temporary capacity through  an agency. And I 
read nothing  negative into her inability to accurately recall which agency she worked for. 
As part of our investigation we asked if Mrs S had any evidence of her employment status. 
Mrs S contacted the recruitment agency, who has said that due to the passing  years they no 
longer hold any employment or pay records for her.
 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale that would shed clear  light on this matter. The sale happened  over 15 years 
ago, so its maybe not surprising that such evidence isnt available. Where there isnt much  
evidence for me to consider,  I need  to make  my decision based on a balance  of probabilities 
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have  said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened.  
Having done so I think its more likely that Mrs S was a temporary worker through  the 
agency that Egg recorded her working for at the time of the sale in 2003.  
I think that if Mrs S knew about the temporary employment  terms she wouldve thought she 
was only likely to benefit from part of the policy and wouldve thought  the policy expensive 
because of that. So I dont think she wouldve taken it out if properly informed.
I think that the policy was mis-sold and Egg needs to do something to put things right.
what the business should  do to put things right
Egg says the account closed in 2005.  Egg should  put Mrs S in the financial position  shed  be 
in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.Egg should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed  her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Egg should then refund  the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Egg can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Egg should add simple interest  on the difference between  what  Mrs S would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
Ref: DRN85053993interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Egg works out what Mrs S would  have owed  each month without PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Egg should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed Egg something  on her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
D.Egg should tell Mrs S what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Egg to take off tax from this interest. Egg must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint  and I direct  
Canada Square  Operations Limited to pay Mrs S compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8505399