K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 alongside  a credit card. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. Ive seen a 
copy of the application  form which shows Mrs G selected PPI. Although  the form 
shows a printed X rather than a manual  selection, Mrs Gs personal details have 
also been completed electronically  and as the PPI was sold during  a branch meeting 
I think its more likely that the information and choices  on the form reflected the 
discussion between Mrs G and the representative.  Mrs G also signed this form and 
so if she had any doubts about PPI at this time, she could  have raised this with the 
representative.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what she has said about  her other 
means of making  repayments. But these points dont change  my decision.  The PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Gs sick pay and would  also have paid out if she lost her job. 
Mrs G hasnt provided us with the details of her savings and so I havent been able to 
conclude that Mrs Gs savings were such that the PPI wouldnt have been  of good value for 
money in her circumstances.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs G paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs G back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN80154422my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8015442