K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that he was misled  into applying to a current account with 
National Westminster Bank Plc because  he wasnt told a card reader is required for many of 
the online banking  facilities.  Mr S also complains that he wasnt  paid a switching incentive. 
Background
Mr S says he tried to apply  to switch his current account to NatWest online but wasnt able to 
do so. He then visited a branch and completed an application  with an advisor on 
26 October 2018. Mr S says that the advisor didnt  tell him that he would  need  a card reader 
to use all the features  of its online banking facility. 
After the account  was opened Mr S had to order a card reader. Mr S says there were other 
problems, including  being sent a PIN that wasnt readable without help from the branch. 
Mr S says the issues he experienced made dealing with the estate of a late friend 
unnecessarily difficult  and complained. 
NatWest responded  on 7 November 2018  and said details of its card reader were  contained  
on its website in the online banking section. NatWest confirmed Mr S met the terms for the 
switch incentive  and it would be paid into his account in February 2019. NatWest  paid Mr S 
£25 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr S raised  further  concerns  after his PIN wasnt readable and 
the card he needed  wasnt sent in good  time. NatWest went  on to apologise and paid Mr S a 
further £50 taking the total award  paid to £75. 
Unhappy with NatWests  response,  Mr S referred his complaint  to our service.  An 
investigator looked at what  had happened  but didnt  ask NatWest to take any further  action. 
He thought NatWest  had provided information about the card reader to Mr S during the 
application process. In addition,  he said Mr S didnt receive the switch  incentive because  he 
closed his account before 8 February  2019. Mr S didnt  accept and asked for his complaint 
to be appealed so its been  passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S wasnt happy  when  he found out that NatWests  online banking facility  
uses a card reader for certain functions. Important account facilities, like setting up payments, 
require a card reader. Mr S says more information  about the card reader should have been 
given during the application process and he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known. 
NatWest has sent us a lot of information  setting  out how applications are handled  in branch. 
Its sent a step by step guide showing  the process  advisors should  follow.  The process  is 
lengthy and involved  but I can confirm that it does include  a section that shows  information 
about a card reader  should be provided. Mr S says that information wasnt given  to him in 
branch when he applied. But NatWest says it would have been provided as part of the 
account application process. 
Ref: DRN80397472In cases where information is incomplete or contradictory, I will base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I consider most likely to have happened in light of all 
the available  evidence and information.  In this case, whilst I accept Mr S says information  
about a card reader  wasnt  given to him, I have  to balance that against a process document  
that indicates providing that information formed  part of the application. Like the investigator, I 
think its more likely  than not that NatWest did give some information about  the card reader 
to Mr S during the application process,  in line with the process they were meant to follow. 
Ive also thought about whether the use of a card reader is inconvenient to the point where 
Id specifically expect  a business to warn customers during an application.  Whilst I 
understand Mr S wasnt happy to use a card reader, I dont think using one to access  full 
online banking facilities is unreasonably inconvenient. I wouldnt expect NatWest  to highlight 
a card reader beyond mentioning it during application process. And, as Ive explained  above,  
on balance, I think it most  likely  provided that information to Mr S. 
NatWest says Mr S didnt receive the switch incentive  because the account was closed 
before he qualified. NatWests terms said no switch incentive would be paid if the account 
was closed before 8 February 2019.  But Mr S account was already closed by that point. 
As a result, he didnt qualify. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr S but as he didnt qualify for the 
incentive I dont  think it would be fair to tell NatWest to pay it. 
Mr S has raised concerns over the service he received, including having to visit a branch to 
read a PIN he was sent and problems  with his card. I agree that there  were  some service 
issues in this case and some inconvenience  to Mr S. But NatWest has paid a total of £75 
and, having considered everything Mr S has told us, Im satisfied that fairly reflects  the 
impact of the issues raised.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but I think NatWest has dealt with his complaint fairly so Im not 
telling it to do anything  further. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8039747