K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that when she used her roadside  assistance policy,  underwritten  by DAS 
Legal Expenses Insurance Company  Limited, she received very poor service.
background
Miss S asked for help with a clutch problem on the evening of 9 March 2019, when she was 
partway through a long-distance journey. A technician advised her over the phone to pump  
the pedal to reset the pressure. He also said she should take the car to a garage, but as it 
was 8.30pm on a Saturday, and she was far from home, Miss S was unable to do that. She 
says the technician didnt advise her not to drive on, so she completed her journey. 
On 11 March 2019 Miss S found the clutch wasnt working, so she couldnt start her journey 
home. She called DASs  breakdown team and it confirmed  that the policy entitled her to 
recovery. That was her preference, but the technician who later attended topped up the 
clutchs fluid level and said Miss S should pump  the pedal if she had a further  problem. She 
says he told her it would  take a series of five delivery trucks for a recovery  home,  which 
would take all day. Miss S says she queried  whether it was advisable  to drive the car home 
instead. As the technician said it was, reluctantly she did so. But partway through  the journey 
the clutch failed  on a motorway, causing Miss S great alarm  and distress.
Miss S called for help again and said she wasnt going to drive  on until the fault was 
repaired. A technician  said a recovery truck would be sent out. Over  90 minutes later a 
recovery driver called  to say hed been  given the wrong location. Miss S later had her vehicle 
repaired at a cost of £1,230. She thought some of the damage was caused  by driving on 
once the fault was apparent. She had difficulty in using the breakdown services complaints 
process and was given  incorrect  details. Eventually,  DAS offered her £75 compensation.
One of our investigators  said DAS should split the repair  bill equally with Miss S, as he 
thought some damage was likely to have been done  by her driving on, rather than being 
recovered home. DAS asked for an explanation of how driving on had affected the initial 
problem. It didnt accept  that there was any technical evidence  to show it should pay for half 
the repairs. But it increased the compensation  for poor service to £150.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Clearly there was a problem with the clutch on Miss Ss car before she contacted  DASs  
breakdown service. The clutch had to be replaced entirely. DASs technical team said if the 
clutch was already worn, both it and the additional  parts shown on Miss Ss invoice  would 
always have needed  replacing. But it was prepared to consider any evidence from Miss S 
about drive-on  damage.  Unfortunately, Miss Ss garage said it wasnt  prepared  to comment 
on the work that would  have been necessary  due to the original fault or by driving on. 
I think its possible that further damage was done by Miss S driving on with a worn  clutch.  
But in the absence of any technical evidence I dont think its reasonable to ask DAS to pay 
for half the damage. No-one can be sure how much  extra damage (if any) was caused.  I 
understand why Miss S may consider that unfair, as she got such  poor service from DASs  
breakdown service. But I think that should be dealt with separately, and in my opinion,  it 
would be reasonable for DAS to pay her more than it has offered so far for that. 
Ref: DRN86263992I think its far more likely than not that Miss S made  it clear  she wanted her vehicle to be 
recovered when  the first technician attended on 11 March 2019.  Although  he disputes that, I 
dont think it makes any sense that Miss S would have  wanted to chance  another  breakdown 
when that could have been  avoided. I think it looks as though the technician tried to put her 
off having a recovery by explaining  that five recovery  vehicles would have to be involved, so 
it would  take all day. Miss S couldnt have  known about that had he not raised  it as an issue. 
So I think he actively discouraged her from insisting on recovery. I dont think  theres  any 
reason to doubt Miss Ss account that he said if he were  in her place hed drive home. In the 
circumstances, I think  that was poor advice, but Miss S was persuaded to accept  it. 
Miss S later faced a very alarming, dangerous and distressing situation when the vehicle  
broke down  on the motorway.  That situation wouldnt have occurred but for the technicians 
advice. The recovery was then delayed as an error was made by DASs  breakdown  service 
about her location.  DAS accepted that it was at fault and said the technicians  manager 
would address the issue with him. It also accepted that there  were  problems when  Miss S 
tried to make a complaint. I think its clear that Miss F was inconvenienced and very 
frustrated by these  events, having  been  seriously  let down about the initial  recovery.   
I dont think the £150  compensation DAS has offered Miss S reflects the substantial effect its 
poor service had on her. In my opinion, given the extent of the distress  and inconvenience  
she faced, it should  pay her £500 compensation  in total.   
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Miss S accepted it. DAS said if it was 
being asked to pay £425 on top of the £75 it had already paid, it accepted the decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My understanding is that DAS had 
already offered Miss S £150, so my proposal was that it should pay her a further £350. 
Either way, Im pleased to see that DAS has agreed to pay Miss S £500 in total.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Miss S £500 in total for distress  and inconvenience.  Under  the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my 
decision before  1 June 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8626399