complaint
Mr G has complained that Sabre Insurance  Company Limited didnt pay him a fair market  
value for his car when  he claimed under his car insurance policy.  Hes also unhappy about 
how long it took for Sabre to settle  his claim.
background
Mr G bought a car insurance policy with Sabre. In July 2018 he made a claim as his car had 
been damaged  by fire.
Sabre settled Mr Gs claim as a total loss and paid him an initial  market  value  of £1,075.  It 
deducted £100 from its valuation of £1,175 as Mr Gs car didnt have a valid MOT at the time 
of the fire.
In October 2018 Mr G complained to Sabre  as he didnt think the valuation  it paid was 
enough. So Sabre reconsidered and increased the settlement sum by £603   and in 
November 2018  it increased it again  by a further £222. This meant  the final valuation Sabre 
paid Mr G for his car was £2,000.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he asked to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt think 
Sabre had caused undue delay. But she looked at the four main  motor trade guides and 
found that the average valuation for Mr Gs car came to just under £2,254.00. So she 
thought Sabre hadnt been reasonable to Mr G. She recommended it increase the market 
value by a further £250  with interest.
Sabre accepted the investigators recommendations.  Mr G said he thought the market value 
of £2,250 for his car was now reasonable. But he wanted Sabre  to also pay toward the costs  
of parts hed changed on his car and for replacement tyres.
As Mr G didnt  agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Sabre didnt cause any undue  delay while  dealing  with
Mr Gs claim. He contacted it in October 2018 to ask where  his settlement cheque was. But 
hed moved address and Sabre didnt know. So Sabre issued its cheque  again. And as Mr G 
didnt agree with the settlement, it reviewed his case  and his complaint. In doing so, it 
increased the settlement sum it paid. This took some time  but I dont think  Sabre took 
longer than necessary to investigate Mr Gs concerns.
K821x#15
Ref: DRN8175419We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  the insurer reached its valuation  in a 
reasonable way  and in line with the policy.
Mr Gs policy  with Sabre says the most it will pay in the event of a claim  is the market  value  
of his car at the time of loss. We have  a long standing approach  to valuation complaints. 
Generally we think its fair for an insurer to rely on the main  motor trade guides when 
deciding a market  value for a car.
They tend to be more  reliable than adverts as they are based on likely selling prices. And 
they can provide average valuations based on the cars make, model, age, condition  and 
mileage.
Adverts can vary widely and tend to have a higher advertised price  than the final selling price
 because a seller allows a margin for negotiation.
Weve looked  at the trade guides to check if the market value Sabre decided was within  the 
range of the trade guides. I dont  think Sabre acted reasonably here. Its first engineer 
decided a valuation  for Mr Gs car based  on a trade price  which  wasnt  correct or in line with 
the policy. And having checked the motor trade  guides, we found that the final valuation 
Sabre paid of £2,000 was about £250  lower than the average.
So while I think Sabre promptly  investigated Mr Gs concerns about the settlement it paid, I
think he would have  received a fairer  sum much  sooner if Sabre had acted reasonably.
So I think Sabre  should pay Mr G an additional £250 to bring the market value for his car to 
within the range of the main motor trade guides. And I think it should  pay interest on the full 
difference between  £2,250 and £1,075 from the date it paid the first settlement cheque to the 
date it pays Mr G the additional  £250  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  a year.
Mr G said he carried out extensive work to his car  but I havent  seen anything to show me 
this would have  made  his car worth more  than the market value of it. It seems  the work  Mr G 
did to his car was to keep  it maintained  and roadworthy. These arent costs that I think  Sabre 
should meet  in addition to the total loss settlement (which I think it should increase).
Ref: DRN8175419K820x#14my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Sabre Insurance Company
Limited to do the following:
 pay Mr G an additional £250  for the market value of his car  bringing the total to
£2,250. It should pay interest on the difference between  £1,075  and £2,225 
from the date it paid the original settlement sum to the date it pays  Mr G.
 It should pay interest  on the difference between the £1,075  and £2,225 at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date it sent the original settlement 
sum to the date it pays the £250.
Sabre Insurance  Company Limited must  pay the difference within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also 
pay interest on the £250 from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Sabre Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much  its taken 
off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8175419