K820x#14complaint
Mr and Miss C complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  
payment protection insurance (PPI).  
background
In 2002 Mr and Miss C had a meeting  in a Halifax branch with one of its advisors. They took 
out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP) to 
protect their mortgage repayments. This covered  Mr C in the event  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Mr and Miss C believe  they initially had an interest only mortgage  (although  that changed 
later). 
In 2006, Mr and Miss C borrowed extra money  on their mortgage account  when they took 
out a further advance. This meant  that their mortgage became regulated  under new rules 
that had come into force by then. But they didnt take out any extra PPI at that time.  So Im 
concentrating in my decision on what happened  when Halifax  sold them PPI in 2002.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr and Miss C 
disagree. In summary,  Mr and Miss C said PPI was added without them  knowing and it 
wasnt something they needed  as they had other means to rely on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Miss Cs complaint.
Normally Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. Halifax hasnt been able to provide anything  
signed by Mr and Miss C to show how they agreed  to take out the PPI. But I dont think thats 
surprising. The PPI was sold over 16 years ago. I wouldnt expect Halifax  or Mr and Miss C 
to have kept all the paperwork for this long. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Miss C have said,  but what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. Where theres only limited 
information I have  to look at all the available  information and decide what  I think  is most 
likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used to sell PPI around this 
time. And we already  know from looking at other cases  what the process  was when Halifax 
sold TMPP. Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt  have followed its normal sales 
process here. And Ive seen a copy of a record of a discussion they had with Halifax about 
their particular needs  when  it looks like Halifax identified that Mr and Miss C had a need for 
PPI and advised them to take out this cover   along with other  insurance.
Ref: DRN81597362So, whilst its understandable  that theyve  forgotten this after so long, I think its likely that 
PPI was discussed and recommended for Mr and Miss C. And I think Mr and Miss C 
wouldve been aware at the time that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted  to 
have any of this insurance  cover.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Miss Cs home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On balance,  I think its more 
likely that Mr and Miss C decided they wanted  to have the benefits PPI could offer. And the 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover was added  to their mortgage  at their request 
when they chose to buy it.
Mr and Miss C say PPI wasnt recommended to them. But I think its fair to look at this 
complaint on the basis that Halifax recommended PPI to Mr and Miss C. If a business makes  
a recommendation  about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a 
clear way. It has an extra obligation to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. So looking at the complaint this way gives  Mr and Miss Cs 
complaint the best chance of success.
It doesnt look like PPI was an unsuitable recommendation based on what Ive seen  of 
Mr and Miss Cs circumstances at the time.  
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr C was unable  to work 
because of accident or sickness.  PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if 
he became unexpectedly  unemployed.  Looking at what theyve told us about their financial 
circumstances at the time, it looks like the PPI provided Mr and Miss C with significantly 
better protection that they wouldve had otherwise (even taking into account new information 
that Miss C was entitled to some sick pay as well).  Repeat claims were possible providing  
long term protection  for their mortgage.
I dont know how long its likely that Miss C wouldve been able to keep up the mortgage 
monthly repayments on her own if Mr C was unable  to work as he was substantially the main 
earner. PPI provided dependable cover that protected their home  so it couldve been  a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time. 
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr C was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any redundancy  money  he mightve  got, giving Mr and Miss C some additional 
financial security if hed lost his job. And, although they both had some  life insurance set up, 
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. Ive seen no 
information to make me think  that the PPI they took out as part of the TMPP duplicated  life 
insurance they already had set up. 
So I think the PPI was suitable.  
Mr C wasnt affected by any of the main  conditions limiting the policys benefits. So I think  it 
unlikely that knowing  more about  what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr and Miss C off 
taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Miss C about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out when they didnt have to have it and 
so appear to have  wanted this type of cover. Ive seen nothing  to suggest it was unaffordable 
Ref: DRN81597363for them. Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a 
successful claim  was made I think the policy couldve  provided Mr and Miss C with a 
worthwhile benefit .  
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr and Miss C wouldve made a different decision about taking 
out PPI if Halifax had given them better information. So, even if there were failings in the way 
Halifax sold them PPI, I dont find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Halifax mightve 
done wrong.
 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  to Mr and Miss C some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Miss Cs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Miss C paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN8159736