K822xcomplaint
Miss Ys complaint is about  a claim under  a removals insurance policy  with The Baxendale
Insurance Company.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  part of which is copied 
below: 
Miss Y took the policy to cover items being shipped overseas. When  the items were
delivered to her in November 2017,  several were damaged and so she registered a claim
under the policy.  The policy covers the cost of the repair  or replacement of any items lost or
damaged. There has been considerable discussion and debate  between  Miss Y and
Baxendale about the settlement offers for the items damaged. Ill summarise  this below:
furniture and lamp
Some items of furniture (desk, bedside tables, coffee table, TV unit and a lamp  base)  were
damaged and the quotes for repair exceeded the insured values and the cost to replace
them. Baxendale therefore agreed to a cash settlement in lieu of repair/replacement. Miss Y
was not happy with the amount offered and also that she would have to allow Baxendale to
retain the items.  Baxendale also stipulated that the items should be in the same condition
they were when they were assessed  for repair. Miss Y wanted to receive  the full insured
value of the items but also wanted  to keep the desk and lamp specifically and have them
repaired herself.
Miss Y was also unhappy that Baxendale had offered  only in relation to the lamp  base and
not the shade (which was undamaged) but she said she bought both together  as one unit.
Baxendale said that Miss Y could keep the items  but it would then only pay a percentage of
the insured value; and that if she wanted to keep any of these items she would have to keep
them all and it would pay a percentage settlement for all of them.
television
There was some considerable discussion  about  a TV. Miss Y said neither could not be
replaced in the country to which shed moved  for the insured  value  and examples Baxendale
gave were from online auction sites, or non-high street retailers with special discounts.
Miss Y was concerned about them  not being available at the date she bought  them and
raised other  concerns, including about exchange rates. Miss Y wanted  the full sum insured
without any discounts.  Baxendale  said if it was possible to replace the items for less than the
sum insured then that is the limit of its liability.
Baxendale purchased a higher specification TV and arranged for it to be delivered to Miss Y.
I understand Miss Y is satisfied with the replacement.
toaster and kettle
A similar debate was had about the kettle  and matching toaster.  I understand Baxendale
provided a replacement of the same kettle Miss Y had but it has not yet settled the toaster.
Ref: DRN88087782microwave turntable
A glass microwave turntable  was chipped. Baxendale found  it available and offered the cash
sum to purchase the replacement. Miss Y said it was not available at that price where she
was located. Baxendale  offered to pay for one to be shipped to her and also said that it was
available in her location for a similar price.
mattress
Miss Ys mattress  was also torn. Baxendale said it could be re-stitched for around £60.
Miss Y disputed this, as the quote obtained by Baxendale was from a repairer on the other
side of the country  to her and no repairers could be found in her location.  She also said
shed been told it was illegal to repair mattresses.
leather jacket
Baxendale refused to pay for a damaged leather jacket, as it said it was not a listed insured
item. Miss Y disputes this and says she had itemised the jacket  under  the evening  wear
section of the insurance proposal form.
other items
I understand that a hard drive was also damaged but a cash settlement has been agreed for
this. And Miss Y had incurred a fee with an assessor  who provided the required repair
quotes for the furniture. She wants  this reimbursed.
Miss Y is extremely unhappy  with the handling of the claim and the offers  made by
Baxendale. She says Baxendale has spent considerable time delaying paying her what  she
is entitled to.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that it be upheld in part.
The investigator didnt  think Baxendale was unreasonable in requiring salvage  of the items
of furniture, if Miss Y wanted the full insured value of them.  However, she didnt think it had
established that the mattress could be repaired for the amount offered within a reasonable
distance of where  Miss Y was living. Therefore  she recommended that it pay the insured
value, so she could  buy a replacement. The investigator also concluded that Baxendale
should provide  cash  in lieu of settlement for the lamp and base, as they were  a unit; and
reimburse the assessors fee. The investigator  also recommended that Baxendale pay
interest on the amounts for the toaster, assessors  fee and mattress.  She did not
recommend that Baxendale pay interest on any parts of the settlement that it had made
reasonable offers on before.
Baxendale accepted the investigators assessment and also confirmed it would pay the
insured value of the mattress and collect it for salvage with the other items. It didnt agree to
pay interest on this though, It agreed to pay for the lamp base and shade, even though the
shade was not damaged; it also agreed  to refund the repair  assessor fee plus interest
Miss Y does not accept all of the recommendations either. She agreed to the salvage  of all
the items  of furniture.  However, Miss Y is still very unhappy with the way the claim has been
handled. She has made a number of submissions, both in her initial complaint and in
response to the investigator. Ive summarised these  below:
Ref: DRN88087783Baxendale did not offer replacements  of the same value for several  items,  particularly
in relation to the items of furniture and the television. Instead it offered items of lower
value and quality  from obscure retailers. After  much haggling it provided a television
of the similar  or better quality.
Baxendale took over a month to get back to her to approve the assessors  fee and
confirm that it would refund this so she could  get a quote to repair  damaged furniture.
She had to chase  multiple times.
Baxendale then rejected the quotes she got for the repair of the furniture, telling her it
would not accept any quote  unless  it was less than the insured replacement value.
It couldn't provide/recommend any repair companies within  her location. Instead it
simply provided her with a link to the yellow pages  and the name of a company over
600km away to repair the mattress.
Baxendale simply refused to allow her to receive  the full insured  value  and keep
some of the items of furniture which had sentimental  value to her and provide the rest
for salvage.
It would  not respond to her queries about why it offered up to 50% less than the
insured amounts.
There is nothing in the terms of the policy that says in order to receive settlement,
items must be provided for salvage,  either  individually  or as a "block" of items.  As
there is nothing in the terms of the policy that says items must be returned for
salvage, there is also nothing to say that the items  must  be in the same condition  as
at the time of the claim.
Baxendale expects  all the furniture to be surrendered for salvage  in the same
condition as in photographs submitted for the claim made in mid-November  2017.
Due to the time this has taken, there  will naturally be wear and tear on these items,
so they will not be in the same condition.
In any case, it is irrelevant what condition they are in given that Baxendale would
have had to pay her the full value of them if they were destroyed completely.
Baxendale also expects the furniture to be surrendered  for salvage, with payment to
follow at a later date/time.  She does  not trust it to act fairly and it could simply say the
items were not in the required  condition and then pay her whatever  it wanted.
Our published guidance is that where insurers opt for replacement, we consider
whether a reasonable replacement can be obtained  in the way the insurer has
proposed and that replacements  should be provided  from major high-street retailers.
And that any retailer should  be within  a reasonable distance and if no replacement
can be found, then the consumer is entitled to the full cash  value. So, Baxendale
should pay her the cost of the items in her resident  country and not where  she
originally purchased them.
There should also be a percentage increase in the insured sums  to reflect the time
since the claim was made and interest should be added to the settlement figures for
all the items.
Baxendale confirmed that the collector would assess  the condition  of the items being
salvaged when he collects  them and (provided they are as expected)  payment would be
made within 24 hours.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
Ref: DRN88087784reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
table lamp, desk, bedside tables,  coffee table, TV stand
Miss Y wants Baxendale to pay the full insured value for these items but to also keep the
lamp and the desk and have  them  repaired herself.  Baxendale  offered to pay the full insured
value of these  items  but asked that they be returned to it. It says that if Miss Y wants  to keep
the items,  then it will pay her a percentage of the insured value instead. I agree with the
investigator that this is not unreasonable.
It is a matter of insurance law that on an insurer providing full indemnity (which  Baxendale
would have if it pays the full insured value under the policy terms) it acquires the
policyholders rights over the insured item.  Accordingly, in this case it would own the
furniture and lamp and could sell them or dispose of them as it wishes. If Miss Y therefore
wants to keep them, she would have to establish she could have them  repaired for less than
the insured amount and Baxendale will pay that cost instead; or it may offer a part cash
settlement (it offered 50% for the desk,  50% for the bedside tables, 30% for the coffee table,
30% for the TV stand and 65% of the lamp  it says this is also the same for each item as it
would cost to replace  them) and she can keep them.
Theres no convincing evidence that it would cost more than the amounts offered to replace
each of these  items  and there is no other convincing evidence that this offer is unreasonable
given the damage  to each item  they are all, as I understand  it, usable  but scratched or
dented. Baxendale says it offered a higher percentage  settlement  for the items  that had
more damage.  Miss Y says the amounts offered are not enough to have them repaired but
that is not the deciding  factor. It is not a settlement  based on repair of the items. So if Miss Y
is unhappy with the amounts offered, she can instead receive the full sum insured for each
item and allow  Baxendale to collect the salvage.  It doesnt have to let her keep any of the
items, it is entitled to the salvage and so this is an offer outside  of the normal  claims process
and it is then up to Miss Y if she accepts it or not.
mattress
Baxendale offered £60.12  for the repair of the mattress  (which I understand had a tear at
one of the seams)  based  on a quote from a company some  distance from where Miss Y lives
but says a more  local repairer should  be able to be found. Miss Y says she has not been
able to find a repairer  local to her and has asked for the insured value of the mattress
instead.
The investigator didnt  think this was reasonable and therefore recommended  that it pay the
cost of a replacement mattress plus 8% simple interest calculated from date of claim till date
of settlement. Baxendale has agreed to pay the replacement value of the mattress  but does
not agree  to pay interest in this amount.
Interest is intended  to reflect a delay in indemnifying  for loss  so where a consumer has
been without the insured item or the settlement of its value. Given the mattress has
apparently been  usable  (Miss Y has said she is worried therell be a delay in receiving
settlement after the items are collected by Baxendale in part because  she would need time
and funds to get a new mattress) with only a small tear, I do not consider it fair to require
Baxendale to also pay interest on the settlement amount  for the mattress.
condition of items to be collected
Ref: DRN88087785Miss Y says the condition of the items  should be irrelevant and she expects to receive the
settlement at the point of collection.  Baxendale has said it will pay within 24 hours of
collection and verification of the condition and the collector will verify their condition  on
collection.
The reason  the condition  is relevant, is that the items have  a salvage value and Baxendale is
entitled to sell them to recoup some  of its outlay for the claim. This is not unusual  or unfair.
So, if they have  suffered  further material damage  which would significantly affect the value of
them then Baxendale might  be entitled  to take account of that. Miss Y says there will be
some usual wear and tear, given the passage of time. I accept  that and would expect
Baxendale to be reasonable in its assessment.  Miss Y says she doesnt trust Baxendale to
be fair about this but it has to be permitted to go through this process.
microwave oven  turntable
Miss Y says there was a chip in the glass turntable plate for a microwave. Baxendale offered
£46.86 for the cost of replacement, which Miss Y said was not enough as it is the price from
a company in the UK and doesn't include postage  and packaging.  However, there is other
evidence available  that a replacement could be bought  in Miss Ys location for a similar
amount or less and she has not shown  any evidence to the contrary. I am therefore satisfied
this offer is reasonable.
leather jacket
Baxendale refused to pay for the damaged leather jacket, as it wasn't  listed  in the items
insured when Miss Y took out the policy. The proposal  form completed  by Miss Y required
her to list every item to be insured. It had several  sections  for clothing, including one for
jackets, one for coats and one for evening wear.  The only items of clothing that Miss Y listed
were: one dress at £100, one item of evening wear at £250 and one pair of gloves at £15.
Nothing is entered under the section for coats  or jackets.
Miss Y said that I did not insure the leather  jacket as a leather jacket. But I did insure
evening wear for £250. That leather  jacket is one of my primary items  of evening wear.  If that
is not what  [Baxendale] had in mind when  it included evening  wear on the form then that
should have been made explicit...
Miss Y also told the investigator that she doesnt  have evening  dresses or ball gowns but
has a few jackets that she considers to be evening wear  two leather  and one silk. She
says she put the jacket in the evening wear  section as the specific  section for jackets gave
guide prices which were too low.
I consider the form to be sufficiently clear. The proposal form has guide prices  for most items
but Miss Y had entered higher insured values for many items. For example, the guide price
mattress is £250  but she insured hers for £620.  The form also provides the opportunity  to list
items that dont fit into any of the set sections.  I am not therefore persuaded by Miss Ys
explanation as to why, if she wanted to insurer the leather jacket,  she did not enter the jacket
under the jacket  section.
Based on this, I do not consider there is enough evidence that the leather jacket was an
insured item and therefore I dont consider that Baxendale needs to meet  this part of the
claim.
Ref: DRN88087786claims-handling
Miss Y is very unhappy with the way the claim was handled by Baxendale and says it
repeatedly tried to delay  her clam and constantly trying to evade meeting its obligations
under the policy.  I can see it took a long time to reach agreement on some items and the
matter has still not been  concluded.  However,  I am not persuaded that there were any
avoidable or unnecessary delays on the part of Baxendale. It was negotiating the claim with
Miss Y and answered all communications  within reasonable time. She was not happy with its
response on many occasions  but I am not persuaded it was being  unreasonable.
interest and other matters
I note it has been  agreed  that Baxendale will reimburse the assessors fee together  with
interest and will pay interest  on the amount for the toaster from the date it could have paid
this or replaced the toaster. I think this is reasonable and as that has been agreed, I will not
consider those points  further. Interest on the assessors fee would be liable for interest  from
the date Miss Y incurred this expense, which I understand was February 2018. So interest
should be paid from the date she paid the fee to the date of reimbursement.
I agree  with the investigator that interest is not required to be added  to the settlement of the
other items of furniture.  Baxendale was not solely responsible for the time taken to settle  this
part of the claim and for the same reasons  as given above in relation to the mattress, I do
not agree  that interest is warranted. Theres no evidence that Miss Y has not been able to
use these items since the claim was made.  The photographs show  scratches but no damage
that would  render them unusable. I therefore consider that interest is only required on the
assessors fee and the toaster.
I am not persuaded that there  should  be any uplift on the insured value. The replacement
values of the items might well have increased, though  there is no convincing evidence of
this. However, as I am not satisfied  that the time taken to finalise the claim is solely  due to
anything Baxendale has done wrong, it follows that I do not consider it is liable for any
inflationary increase  in the cost of replacing  these items.
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint  against The Baxendale Insurance Company in part and require it to
do the following:
reimburse the assessors fee, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from
the date Miss Y paid the fee to the date of reimbursement; 
collect the furniture  items, lamp  and mattress and pay the insured values; or pay the
cash offers  as set out above, if Miss Y decides shed rather keep all the items;
pay £46.86  for the microwave oven;
pay £75 for the toaster together with interest  at 8% simple  from February  2018  to the
date of reimbursement.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision, with any further  information  or 
arguments they want considered. 
Ref: DRN88087787Miss Y has confirmed she received my provisional decision. She has asked  two questions:
1.Is she expected  to surrender the items for salvage and wait for an assessment of 
their condition  before receiving the pay out? Who will arbitrate if/when Baxendale 
assess the items incorrectly or refuse  to pay?
2.Are the items still expected to be in the same  condition  as when the claim was made 
in November 2017? Or will reasonable wear  and tear be allowed for since  then?  Who 
decides what constitutes reasonable wear and tear?
Miss Y also wanted a number of points noted  for the record.  In summary,  they are as 
follows: 
The insurance was specifically for the cost of replacement in the country the goods 
were destined  for. She did as instructed and insured the items for the replacement  
value in the country in which she is now resident.  
Baxendale consistently failed to make offers based on the cost of replacements  from 
recognised or high street  providers in that country; it also would not agree to have  the 
items repaired, identify  reasonable  and feasible  repair options, or agree  to pay the 
full cash value. 
It offered  cash values at its own discretion, of significantly less than the insured 
value, or cash values based on prices  they have  found on ebay and/or from obscure 
or unknown online  sellers having  sales.
Baxendale's  initial offer for the furniture and lamp, five months  after she made her 
claim, was for settlement at 20% of the insured value for all the furniture items or 
surrender of all items for salvage, if she wanted the full insured value. When she 
rejected this, it made a subsequent offer of 30% - 50% of the insured values, or 
surrender of all items for salvage. This shows that the original offer was not made in 
good faith and that Baxendale had no intention to deal with the claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner.
Baxendale has not found replacements of equal  value of any of the furniture, or 
proposed any alternatives for getting them repaired. It says the settlement for these 
is the same as it would  cost to replace them but has provided no evidence of this. 
She provided examples from high-street  retailers for replacements of equal value and 
quality at the outset  but these prices will have increased since then. 
Its unfair that she has to either keep all the furniture items or surrender them  all 
when they do not come  as a set. She corresponded at length with Baxendale about 
her attempts  to get a viable repair option  for the mattress. She could not find anyone 
who would repair the mattress or provide  a quote. It would be in her best interests  to 
get the mattress  repaired as she cannot now find a replacement  of equal quality for 
the insured value.  Baxendale  did not offer a reasonable replacement, provide 
reasonable alternatives for repair and was not prepared to adjust the cash  offer,  
which it said as at its discretion.
She provided Baxendale with proof that the lamp base and shade were purchased as 
part of a set and the cost of the item.  It didnt respond and refused to adjust the 
valuation, propose a reasonable replacement or provide alternatives for repair.
With regard to the microwave turntable, Baxendale did not offer to purchase the 
turntable with shipping  to her included. It asked  her to purchase it from a UK retailer  
and delivered  to its shippers to then be delivered  to her; or she could get friends to 
ship it to her and then reclaim the postage from Baxendale. Baxendale didnt find a 
replacement in her location  and she hasnt  either  but as it is impossible to prove  a 
negative, she cannot provide evidence of this.
Ref: DRN88087788Baxendale has also confirmed receipt  of the provisional decision and that it has nothing  
further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In answer to Miss Ys questions, as mentioned in my provisional decision  Baxendale  
confirmed that the condition  of the items would be assessed by the person collecting them 
and payment would  be made within 24 hours  of collection. I also mentioned in my provisional 
decision that I would expect Baxendale to be reasonable when assessing  if the items are in 
the same  condition as when  the claim was made, allowing for some signs of use since  then. 
I cant make  any more  definite direction than that. If there is any dispute about their condition 
or any difficulty with the payment, then Miss Y will need to raise that with Baxendale and 
then would be able to bring  a new and separate complaint to us, if it is not resolved.  
Baxendale has to be allowed to collect the items (unless Miss Y decides to keep  them)  and 
go through that process, and any dispute can be looked into afterwards. 
The other points  raised  by Miss Y have all been  considered previously. As no new 
information or arguments have been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against The Baxendale Insurance Company in part and require it to
do the following:
reimburse the assessors fee, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from
the date Miss Y paid the fee to the date of reimbursement; 
collect the furniture  items, lamp  and mattress and pay the insured values; or pay the
cash offers  as set out above, if Miss Y decides shed rather keep all the items;
pay £46.86  for the microwave oven turntable;
pay £75 for the toaster together with interest  at 8% simple  from February  2018  to the
date of reimbursement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8808778