K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
Some of the paperwork  refers to a different trading name. But as Lloyds  Bank PLC is 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint, to keep things simpler Ill just refer to Lloyds as 
the seller in my decision.
background
Mr B took out PPI with his mortgage  in 1994  which covered him for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Although he later took out further  advances on his mortgage account, it doesnt  look like he 
ever paid for any more  PPI. So Im mostly concentrating in my decision on what  happened  in 
1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  find there  was enough evidence to uphold Mr Bs mis-sale complaint. 
Mr B disagrees. He mainly said that he took out PPI only because he was told that he had to 
accept insurance policies that were  sold to him at the same  time as he was arranging his 
mortgage. Mr B told us he didnt need  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Heres why I say this.
what happened  in 1994
I cant know exactly what was said when Mr B arranged his mortgage  and the PPI. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall  exactly what was discussed at the time.  This 
means that what Mr B says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  his 
complaint.
I have to look at everything  Ive seen and been told and decide what I think is most  likely. 
Theres nothing mentioned on Mr Bs mortgage application which  suggests  that PPI was a 
requirement of getting the mortgage. Next to where  it says:  Do you require cover  against 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment? it looks like there  are yes and no tick 
boxes. So I think Mr B wouldve been able to see that PPI was offered as an option  and he 
couldve declined it if he hadnt wanted  to take it out. 
Mr B has ticked in the yes box on his signed mortgage application. And hes answered 
questions to check he was eligible and able to benefit from the policy. 
Ref: DRN81905382I can see why Mr B mightve wanted PPI. His mortgage was a big financial commitment and 
his home  couldve  been at risk if he hadnt  been  able to make his mortgage monthly 
repayments in full and on time. So I can understand that protecting his repayments wouldve 
been an important  consideration  for him. On balance, I think  its more  likely that Mr B 
decided he wanted  to have the benefits  the policy offered and it was added to his mortgage 
account when  he requested this.
Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr B. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable as well as giving him important policy  information  in a clear  way.
Mr B told us that in the event of sickness he wouldve received sick pay from his employer 
for less than 3 months. But the policy wouldve paid out for quite a lot longer - up to 
12 months, and on top of his work  benefits,  each time he made a successful claim. 
I think this couldve been useful if Mr B wasnt able to work  especially as he mightve had 
extra costs  and expenses  as a result of being sick or disabled.  
The policy wouldve also paid out if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Ive taken carefully into account  information Mr B has provided  that relates to a life insurance 
policy he was also sold alongside  his mortgage. But the PPI provided a different sort of 
cover and paid out in different circumstances.  So this doesnt affect my view about whether 
he was mis-sold the PPI. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy.  So, given his situation and the serious problems that can 
happen when  mortgage payments arent paid in full and on time, I think PPI was suitable for 
him. 
Some information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI possibly wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like this wouldve 
affected Mr B. So I dont think its likely that being told information about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  put him off taking it out. 
I dont know if Lloyds  gave Mr B clear information  about all aspects of the PPI costs.  But he 
chose to sign up for the cover when he didnt have  to  so he appears  to have wanted it. And 
the PPI seems to have  been affordable for him. Overall, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve 
made a different decision if Lloyds had given him better information.  
Mr B took out additional borrowing on his mortgage  account. When he applied for this, the 
application form he filled in explained that his PPI would automatically  extend cover to 
protect his new borrowing   unless he wished to amend his cover. The loan offer and 
agreement he signed clearly stated that he didnt have to take out any insurance through the 
lender  and the only insurance he had to have wasnt PPI.
The paperwork Ive seen  from 2001 suggests  that when Mr B took out this further  advance  
on his mortgage  account the amount he paid for PPI never increased. So I think  its likely 
that Mr B chose not to extend the amount of benefit to cover his additional borrowing. 
Ref: DRN81905383And theres  nothing to suggest he had any more  PPI when he took out another further 
advance in 2011. As far as I can see, the only PPI he ever paid for covered his initial 
mortgage borrowing. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr B some of the commission  he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types  of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Bs mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission  Mr B paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
Its understandable  that Mr B mightve forgotten some details from sales that took place so 
long ago. But, based on all the information  Ive seen,  I dont find hes lost out as a result  of 
anything that Lloyds did wrong  when  it sold him PPI. 
This means  it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8190538