K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss online  account was blocked by Lloyds Bank Plc. Hes unhappy with the service he 
received while trying  to sort things out. 
background
Mr S had problems accessing his online  banking.  He spent a lot of time talking to Lloyds. 
And the bank suggested he get his computer cleaned because it might  have malware  on it. 
But the problems  continued. Mr S had to make a number  of calls to Lloyds and hes unhappy 
with the poor service  he received. He spent a lot of time waiting on telephone calls. And 
Lloyds had now said it will close his accounts because of the language he used when 
speaking to its staff. 
Lloyds said Mr S had been  able to use online banking  until July 2018.  Its fraud  operations 
team had then blocked his access.  It was concerned he had malware on his computer. 
When the bank  tried to guide Mr S through a one-time  logon to try and fix the problem Mr S 
had responded  that he didnt have time. Mr S had continued to contact the bank.  And hed 
used offensive  language  when dealing with its staff. So itd taken the decision to close  Mr Ss 
accounts. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Lloyds response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could see Mr S was very unhappy with the service  hed received.  
But she felt Lloyds had tried to fix Mr Ss problems. And she couldnt tell Lloyds how to 
operate its telephone service. So she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. 
Mr S didnt agree. Hed had to call Lloyds on many occasions. And he felt that proved hed 
been wronged. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration. He needed  access to his online banking so he could 
make payments. But he was having problems logging on. And he didnt think  Lloyds did 
enough to help him. So Ive looked  at everything Mr S and Lloyds have  said to see what has 
happened.
Lloyds placed  a block on Mr Ss account  because it thought he might  have malware  on his 
computer. That would  have put Mr Ss financial information at risk. So I think it acted 
reasonably in suggesting Mr S try and clean  his computer before attempting a one-time 
logon under  Lloyds supervision.
Although Mr S cleaned  his computer he still had problems. And he says he didnt have time 
to try Lloyds  solution. But I cant really  hold Lloyds at fault for that. It was trying to help Mr S 
get back his access.  
Mr S was also unhappy Lloyds telephone banking service became automated at certain 
hours of the day. So Lloyds offered him a security number so he had full access. But Mr S 
said he didnt want Lloyds  to send it to him as he was unhappy with how things were going.
Ref: DRN80858882I do think Lloyds were  trying to help Mr S solve the access problem. I can appreciate  Mr S 
was unhappy  with the time he had to wait on the telephone to speak to the bank. But its a 
commercial decision for Lloyds to make  when it decides how many staff it employs  to 
answer calls. And Lloyds  did say it would note Mr Ss concerns and see if it could improve 
matters. 
From what  Ive seen the relationship between Mr S and Lloyds appears to have  broken 
down. And Lloyds has given Mr S 65 days notice to find an alternative provider in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  I realise this must  be difficult  for Mr S. But Lloyds is 
entitled to decide it doesnt want to do business with Mr S  just as Mr S can decide  to move 
his banking to another  bank. And its given Mr S the necessary notice that it wants  to close 
the accounts. So I cant say Lloyds has acted  unfairly.
I do recognise how upset  Mr S is with the service hes received from Lloyds. But Ive looked 
carefully at everything  hes said. I know Mr S has spent a lot of time talking to Lloyds.  But 
that doesnt necessarily  mean hes had a poor service. I think Lloyds has tried to help Mr S 
solve his online access issues. And its offered him different ways of accessing his account  
while the problem  is resolved. 
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant  really say Lloyds has done 
anything wrong  or treated Mr S unfairly. And I wont be asking  it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8085888