K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services  Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs C bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a store card.  She applied for 
the store card and PPI policy by filling out a leaflet she was given.
At the time,  Mrs C was employed  as a sales assistant and had worked there for a year. She 
has told us she was entitled to sickness or redundancy  pay worth less than 12 months pay. 
She has said she was entitled to at least six months full sick pay - and at least  12 months  
redundancy pay (which,  given her other  comments  and length of service, I think was worth 
less than a years pay). Mrs C has told us she didnt have any other means of repaying her 
store card if she couldnt work. She has also told us shed had medical surgery around  thirty 
five years earlier.
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment, and also had life cover, subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mrs Cs store  card balance in the 
event of Mrs C being  unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. The life 
cover would, subject to its terms, clear the card balance on death.
The policy also provided purchase cover. Mrs C hasnt complained about this element of the 
insurance policy so I will not consider it further  in this decision. 
FICL has told us the policy at the time cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.
Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mrs Cs representative says:
FICL  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs C wouldnt have taken  out 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs Cs representatives believe there  to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN86611102The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  FICL should have told Mrs C about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means FICL should  have  explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs C and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mrs C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN86611103The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller   its agent  was acting as an intermediary.
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance.  FICL was a 
member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its associated requirements. The 
seller  but not FICL   was a member of the FLA and subscribed to the FLA Code, so I 
consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a member  of the FLA) should have 
complied with its code  when selling PPI, and this extends to when it was acting as an agent 
of FICL. So Im satisfied  it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Cs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so FICL  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN86611104Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether FICL gave  Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and 
FICL, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
FICL had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mrs C says she had no interest in PPl 
and it was included  as part of the package with her card.  But her credit  agreement had a box 
to tick if the PPI was wanted. On Mrs Cs agreement this box was ticked.  Nothing  that was 
said above the box or elsewhere on the agreement said the PPI had to be taken or said the 
box for it had to be ticked if Mrs C didnt want the cover. So I think the tick likely reflected 
Mrs Cs wishes  at the time. Taking everything  into account, I think  its more likely Mrs C 
knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did FICL provide  advice?
FICL says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mrs C hasnt said FICL  did give advice. 
With all this in mind, I dont think FICL  did give advice. This means FICL didnt have to check 
if the PPI was suitable for Mrs C. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
the information
FICL has provided us with Mrs Cs credit  agreement  showing that PPI had been  selected. 
Ive also seen a copy of terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - 
applied to policies  like Mrs Cs.
Looking at the information provided to Mrs C at the time, I dont think FICL gave Mrs C the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  when  Mrs C was given a leaflet to fill in. I dont know what FICL told her 
about the PPI but I think its unlikely she would have agreed to take it out without at least  
having a broad understanding of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and 
Ref: DRN86611105unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mrs C would have thought  it was free. I say this 
bearing in mind also that above the box for the PPI on credit  agreement it says the policy 
was cover against sickness, accident,  unemployment  and loss of life  and says: Please 
debit my Account  with the relevant premium until further notice .
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Cs attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs C, including the need to maintain premiums  during 
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. Also its unlikely  FICL  adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Cs representative  considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on FICL. 
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs C. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken out the policy,  had FICL done things properly. 
Ref: DRN86611106Mrs C says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs C had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what she thought she was getting  is 
not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs C ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that FICL  didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mrs C didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs C knew  or ought to have known  
about or which she had received  advice or treatment for from a medical practitioner in 
the 12 months before the start date of the policy;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs C wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs C be stopped from 
doing her own job, or any similar job, and any paid work which her experience, education  
or training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  the policy  was 
not as good as she thought and she might  have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
The policy wouldnt  have covered Mrs C for time off work related to the issue  for which shed 
had surgery in the past. But given  how long ago that issue  was and what  she has said about 
it - and the absence of evidence suggesting  that it caused her ongoing problems or that she 
thought it likely to cause future problems - Im not persuaded Mrs C wouldve thought  herself 
at risk of having time off work in future as a result  of that past issue.  So I dont  think  better 
information about this exclusion wouldve put Mrs C off agreeing  to the cover. And I havent 
Ref: DRN86611107seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been  caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions. So I think Mrs C still had good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to her 
from taking the policy,  Mrs C, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs C had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which  her education, experience or 
training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have  played into her thinking about what 
to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Cs 
circumstances, on balance, I think she would  still have  been interested in taking the cover.
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs C would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mrs C would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs C would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN86611108represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude that FICL  should pay Mrs C compensation, as that would put her in a better  
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs C thinks FICL misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
FICLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why FICL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  FICL gave  Mrs C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find FICL negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs C and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that FICL had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8661110