K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss D says MBNA Limited  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
When Miss D first took out her credit card, she was offered the choice to take or leave 
PPI, and at that stage  she didnt choose to take it. Her application went forward,  and 
later her policy was sold by MBNA over the phone. Because  of all the time thats passed, 
there isnt still a recording of the call. But Ive looked at the sales process  MBNA  staff 
used at the time of Miss Ds sale. From  that, it looks like they were instructed to give her 
a clear choice about whether shed like PPI or not, and then to only set it up with her 
permission. And I think its more likely than not that the staff member followed the normal 
process. So I think its most likely that MBNA made  it clear Miss D didnt have to take out 
PPI and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand why she 
might not remember doing so given how long ago it was.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. It did have to make  sure Miss D got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to 
have changed  her mind.  But based on what Ive seen of Miss Ds circumstances at the 
time, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. 
And she didnt have any other significant  or long-term protection in case she was off sick 
or lost her job. So the policy  could have been  useful for Miss D if something went wrong. 
And if she changed her mind or her circumstances changed, Miss D could cancel  the 
PPI at any time without  a penalty. So overall, I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI was likely to have  put her off taking out the cover.  
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But MBNA will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN86967722what the business needs  to do
MBNA has to pay back to Miss D any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. MBNA should also pay back to Miss D any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Miss D the difference 
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA should  also pay Miss D 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss D.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Miss D any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done  this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8696772