K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave him loans
that he couldnt afford to repay.  The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ws behalf by
a claims management  company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken
by Mr W.
background
Mr W was given four loans by Sunny between May 2017 and February 2018. Each of the
loans was repayable in six monthly instalments. At the time Mr W brought  his complaint to us
the first three loans  had been  fully repaid. But a balance remained outstanding on his final
loan. A summary  of Mr Ws borrowing from Sunny is as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 21/05/2017 31/05/2017 £ 100
2 26/06/2017 31/07/2017 £ 100
3 31/07/2017 08/08/2017 £ 600
4 13/02/2018 - £ 500
Mr W said that Sunny hadnt properly  undertaken affordability checks  or adequately
assessed the signs of his overindebtedness. He said that he was in a debt spiral.  Payday
loans had dominated his life for years. On his paydays, almost all his money  disappeared
and he had to take out more loans.
Sunny said that it had conducted proportionate creditworthiness checks.  It had carried out a
credit check  and asked Mr W for his income and regular expenditure details for Loans 2 to 4.
It said that it took account of the adverse information  at the credit reference agency,  so it had
offered Mr W a small amount  of credit relative to his stated income.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator initially noted from Sunnys spreadsheet that it had upheld Mr Ws complaint
about Loan 1. But Sunny said that this was a mistake. The adjudicator then said that Sunny
hadnt carried out sufficient checks before Loan  1 as he couldnt see that Sunny had
completed any checks before that loan. But the adjudicator also said that if it had done  so,
Mr W was likely to have provided  it with similar information to that he declared  before 
Loan 2. So, the loan would have been deemed to have been  affordable.  With regard to 
Loans 2 to 4, the adjudicator noted that Sunny  had asked  Mr W for his income and regular 
expenses before those  loans.  He concluded  that Sunnys checks went far enough. He noted 
that Mr Ws declared disposable income  was at least £650 before those loans. He said that it
would have been reasonable for Sunny  to rely on the declared information  as an accurate
reflection of Mr Ws finances.
Mr W disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN85944872After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Sunny on 5 February 2019. I summarise my findings:
I noted that Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to make  sure
Mr W could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing, the length  of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
I explained that the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mr W 
borrowed from Sunny. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps  to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The regulations define sustainable as being able to make 
repayments without  undue difficulty,  and that this means borrowers should be able to make 
their repayments on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to 
meet these repayments.
Sunny had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. Before Loan 1 it appeared
that it had only carried out a credit  check. With regard to the other loans  Sunny carried  out a
credit check  and asked Mr W for details of his income and his regular expenditure before
agreeing each loan. I noted that the amounts of credit commitments declared by Mr W 
before Loans  2 to 4 were  different to the credit commitment amounts shown in Sunnys 
credit check.  But I didnt think the discrepancies  were of sufficient magnitude to suggest to 
Sunny that it should have asked Mr W for more  information about his credit commitments 
solely on the basis of its credit check.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for the amount of £100  and was to be repaid by five monthly  instalments of
£28.99 and a final instalment of £28.96. It appeared that Sunny did carry out a credit check
which showed that Mr Ws last payday  loan was five months previously and for the amount
of £80. The check also showed that Mr W had no county court judgements,  no debt
management plan and he didnt have an Individual Voluntary Arrangement. So I didnt think
the credit  check results should have caused  Sunny to think  it needed to dig deeper into
Mr Ws circumstances.
Sunny didnt hold a record of Mr Ws income and regular expenditure for this loan. But I
thought it was reasonable to assume that it would  have  been similar to its record  for Loan 2 
which was taken out around a month  later. Mr W said before Loan 2 that his monthly income  
was £1,500 and his regular expenditure was £650. Given these figures, the relatively  
moderate amount  of the loan repayments  and the fact that Sunnys credit  check didnt 
appear to have shown anything  which should  have caused it additional concerns about 
Mr Ws financial situation, I thought the checks Sunny  carried out here were  proportionate. 
Altogether, I didnt find that Sunny  had lent irresponsibly.
Loan 2
Mr W repaid Loan 1 within ten days of borrowing it even though it was scheduled to be
repaid over six months.  Mr W then borrowed  an amount of £100 for Loan 2 almost  four
weeks after repaying  Loan 1. I thought that behaviour might have caused some  concerns to
Sunny. But the amount Mr W asked to borrow was again £100 and his repayments (five
monthly instalments  of £33.33 and a final instalment of £33.35) appeared to be easily
Ref: DRN85944873affordable based  on what  hed declared to Sunny about his disposable income. On balance,
given the early stage  of its relationship  with Mr W, I thought Sunny was entitled  to rely on 
what Mr W had said about his finances. So, I thought it was proportionate for Sunny to have 
considered Mr Ws declared income and expenditure, without making  further checks  for 
Loan 2. So, I didnt think Sunny had done anything  wrong in giving Loan 2 to Mr W.
Loan 3
Mr W repaid Loan 2 within ten days of borrowing it even though it was scheduled to be
repaid over six months.  Mr W took out Loan 3 on the day he repaid Loan 2. I thought that
behaviour might have  again caused  some  concerns  to Sunny. The loan amount had
increased substantially  to £600  and the six monthly  repayments had increased significantly
to £200. Mr Ws declared regular expenditure had increased to £850,  leaving a reduced
disposable income of £650. I also thought  Sunny ought to have been concerned as to why a
person with an apparently relatively  high level of disposable income was coming back to it
for a third loan in just over two months. I thought all these  factors  might have suggested to
Sunny that Mr W was using short term loans as a supplement to his normal  income, rather
than using them to meet a temporary  one-off problem, and that his finances  were likely to be
under some pressure. Id also considered  that the loan was to be repaid over six months.
So, although  I thought it was still reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information  Mr W had
declared to it, I thought  Sunny should  have additionally asked him some  very specific  
questions about  any other short term lending he already  had outstanding.
Loan 4
Mr W took out Loan 4 over six months  after hed repaid Loan 3. I thought  it was reasonable 
for Sunny to have seen this gap as an indication that Mr Ws finances had moved on from
whatever situation  had required  his previous  loans. So I thought that Sunny could  have
approached Loan 4 as though  it was lending to Mr W for the first time. Mr Ws declared
disposable income had increased  to £875  and the six monthly repayments were around
£150. I thought  the repayment amounts were relatively modest compared to Mr Ws declared
disposable income. So, I thought in these circumstances it was proportionate for Sunny to
consider Mr Ws declared income  and expenditure, without making further  checks  for
Loan 4. So, I didnt think Sunny had done anything  wrong in giving Loan 4 to Mr W.
Although I didnt think the checks Sunny  did for Loan 3 were sufficient, that in itself didnt 
mean that Mr Ws complaint about this loan should  succeed. I also needed to see whether
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown Sunny that Mr W couldnt
sustainably afford the loan.
I said that I would normally have looked at a consumers bank statements for the month 
before the loan to check a consumers short term credit commitments so as to see what 
better checks would  have shown.
So Id asked  the adjudicator to ask Mr W if he could send us his bank statements for
June and July 2017. Mr Ws representatives  sent us some bank statements but unfortunately
the statement  covering most of the month  before Loan 3 was missing. I asked the
adjudicator to ask again for this information  which he did on 21 December 2018. But it wasnt  
received. That meant I didnt have a full picture  of Mr Ws short term lending before
Loan 3. So I didnt know what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate 
checks. And so I couldnt say that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks, it wouldve 
found that Mr W couldnt afford to repay  Loan  3 sustainably
Ref: DRN85944874.
So whilst I didnt think that the checks Sunny carried out were  proportionate for Loan 3, Id 
not seen enough to make me think that had Sunny carried out sufficient checks,  these 
wouldve prevented  it from lending Loan  3 to Mr W.
So based  on what Id seen, I couldnt  say Sunny  was wrong to lend to Mr W.
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Mr W responded to say that he accepted  my provisional decision. Sunny hasnt provided any 
further information in response  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr W has accepted my provisional  decision  and Sunny has given me nothing  
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombusman
Ref: DRN8594487