K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Pentagon (UK) Limited is looking to terminate her debt management 
plan (DMP) because she doesnt  accept its advice regarding bankruptcy. She also says that 
had she been  told to declare herself  bankrupt years  ago she would  be in a better  position  
now.
background
Mrs B entered into a DMP in 2005. In March 2018, the DMP was reviewed and Mrs B says 
that on this call she was told that bankruptcy was the only solution to her debts. She says 
she explained that since starting  the DMP she had been continually advised not to take the 
option of bankruptcy, to which she says that advisor  told her she had been given the wrong 
advice. She then received a letter from the advisor which  said she had agreed  to self-
manage her debts which was not correct.
Mrs B was told that her DMP would cease after the March 2018 payment  (although  this was 
extended) and she feels that her DMP is being terminated because  of her age. She says she 
has been told her DMP is commercially unsustainable but says she has been  paying the 
same fee for many years  and previously  had negative disposable income  so it shouldnt now 
be an issue.
Pentagon says that the advice on setting up the DMP was provided by another company and 
then Mrs Bs case was passed to it. This happened  in 2005. It says that the option of 
bankruptcy had been discussed on a number  of occasions with Mrs B and she has made it 
clear she did not want to take this option.  It says that in the call in March 2018,  Mrs B wasnt  
told that previous  advice  was wrong  but that the adviser thought the advice  at this point 
should be for her to consider  bankruptcy. This was because at that time Mrs B had a 
negative disposable  income and did not wish to include her husband in her income 
calculation. 
Pentagon says that in March 2018, Mrs B did not ask to self-manage her debts  but that she 
asked about contacting her creditors and making arrangements. She was told that she could 
do this and that a list of her creditors would be sent to her. 
Pentagon says that there is not an issue with Mrs Bs age but that it cannot continue  a DMP 
if Mrs B has negative  income and that it cannot  take fees when she has no disposable 
income available.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She noted Mrs Bs comments  regarding 
advice about bankruptcy  but thought Pentagon had done what  was required of it by 
providing Mrs B with the options available to her. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence to suggest that Mrs B would have opted for 
bankruptcy at an earlier date had she received advice to declare  bankruptcy  sooner. 
Mrs B asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman. She reiterated that on a 
call in March 2018 she was told all previous  advice  was wrong and that bankruptcy  was the 
solution for her and that her DMP would be terminated in April. She said this was different to 
the advice she had received in previous years when she was advised not to go bankrupt.  
She said that had she been advised to go bankrupt  at the start and had this explained  to her 
Ref: DRN85952152then she would have  acted on the advice.  She also said that she had not said on the call 
that she would self-manage but is now having to negotiate with her creditors. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pentagon has mentioned our jurisdiction in cases such as these and has said that we cannot 
consider events that happened more than six years  before the complaint was raised. The 
rules about  which complaints we can consider are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook and are known as the DISP rules.  DISP 2.8.2 contains two parts  in regard to 
timing. The first part says the complaint cannot  be considered if it is brought more  than six 
years after the event. The second  part says that the complaint cant be considered  if it is 
brought more  than three years  after the consumer became aware, or ought to have 
reasonably been aware, of their cause  to complain. Exceptional circumstances can also be 
considered.
In this case I accept that Mrs B only became aware of the issue following the call in 
March 2018, when she says she was told that previous advice had not been correct.  
Because of this I find that we can consider issues going back  to when the service was given 
jurisdiction over these cases, that is April 2007.
Mrs Bs complaint is that in a call in March 2018  she was told that bankruptcy  was the only 
solution and she feels that had she been  told this previously she would have taken the 
advice and now been in a better position.
I have listened  to the call that took place in March 2018. On this the adviser says that having 
gone through everything Mrs B is overspending by £30 and that it couldnt continue with the 
DMP because of this. The adviser  explains that Mrs B can deal with her debts directly or use 
a free debt service.  Mrs B says that she has been  in the same  position for years  and that her 
DMP has continued.
The adviser then discusses bankruptcy and Mrs B says she was told when she set up the 
plan not to go bankrupt. The adviser says that Mrs B should have been  told to go bankrupt in 
the previous review and at the start of the DMP. He then confirms it is the best option for 
Mrs B at that time.
I understand why Mrs B says that she should have been told about bankruptcy at the start of 
the DMP. However as this took place before 2007, I cannot consider this part of her 
complaint. I also note that the information at that time was provided by a different entity.
I have looked  at the information provided from Pentagon  about more recent correspondence, 
in particular details  of the conversations with Mrs B in 2015,  2016 and 2017. It is clear from 
these that the option of bankruptcy was discussed. Mrs B made it clear she did not wish to 
take this option.  It is also noted that Mrs B had spoken to another  party  and it had 
recommended bankruptcy and again she had not wished to pursue this. Pentagon has also 
said that Mrs B was sent the In Debt?  Dealing with your creditors guide  in 2015 and 2016  
and the Bankruptcy Journey leaflet in 2017  and 2018.
I do not have information  going  back to 2007, and so I cannot say whether bankruptcy was 
discussed at that time. But having  looked  at the information available, it is clear  that 
Ref: DRN85952153bankruptcy has been discussed on a number of occasions and each time Mrs B has said 
she does not wish to take this option. Therefore, on balance, I find it more  likely than not that 
had bankruptcy  been discussed at an earlier  stage  Mrs B would not have  done  anything 
differently.
I understand that Mrs B wishes her DMP to continue. I also note that the most recent income 
and expenditure  figures showed she did have positive disposable  income. However 
Pentagon has said that the DMP will be terminated on 1 March 2019.  It has noted that Mrs B 
has refused to increase her payments to her outstanding creditors  when she has settled 
other debts,  which  was part of its process. It said that a debt was settled in November 2018 
and a further one settled  in December 2018.  
I understand why Mrs B is upset that her DMP is being terminated.  However,  given the 
concerns that Pentagon have raised  about  its suitability  for Mrs B and its concerns about  
managing the DMP, I do not find that Pentagon is doing anything wrong.
I understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs B, but in this case I dont find that 
I have enough  evidence to uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8595215