K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs I bought  the policy at a meeting  in 1996  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
Mr I was employed at the time as a teacher  and had been there for around six years. He has 
told us he was entitled to six months full sick pay as well as redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs I 
have said they also had £1000 in savings  they couldve used to make  mortgage payments. 
The mortgage questionnaire recorded only Mr Is income details and said Mrs I had no 
income at present  so it looks like the mortgage was taken  based  mainly on Mr Is income. 
But Mrs Is profession was written  on the questionnaire,  alongside housewife.  She has told 
us she worked in her profession on a self-employed basis.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr I for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Is mortgage 
costs in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £14.94  a month.  
Mr I has told us he was in good health at the time of the sale.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that Mr and Mrs I took a further advance  in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Is representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Is representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs I wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Is representatives 
believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Halifax  should have told 
Mr and Mrs I about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr and Mrs I and the impact 
they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN85041692The information Mr and Mrs I received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs I disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Is. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs I arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN85041693The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Is case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Is complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised Mr and Mrs I with reasonable care and skill  
in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs I sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them  to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Is favour, 
I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr and Mrs I suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs I and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN85041694did Mr and Mrs I know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs I have said they had no 
interest in PPI and they say it was just added as part of the package with their mortgage. But 
their mortgage application  form had boxes  for them to sign to say either Yes or No to the 
Mortgage Repayments  Insurance. Mr I signed  in the Yes box and Mrs I signed in the No 
box. So it looks like Mr I wanted to be covered  and Mrs I didnt. To take the PPI Mr I also 
signed a separate PPI application form. Ive nothing that makes me think Mr I was led to 
believe he had to sign the Yes  box or the PPI application form if he didnt want the cover. 
With all this in mind, it looks  like the PPI was presented as something  separate from the 
mortgage and something Mr and Mrs I had a choice  about taking. So although Mr and Mrs I 
have said the PPI wasnt discussed,  what Ive seen makes me think it was discussed  and, 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs I knew the policy was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs I say it didnt. But if Halifax did give 
advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that 
Halifax did give advice. This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs I with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what was discussed in the meeting  exactly, but what  I have suggests Halifax  
took some  steps  to establish whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs I. The adviser had some  information about their financial  circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application  for example  details  of their employment  statuses, income,  
expenditure, state of health,  whether they had missed work  for more than ten days  in a row 
at any point in the previous five years, whether they suffered from any recurring health issue 
and Mr Is length of service. 
Also, the PPI application form signed  by Mr I established that he wasnt aware of any 
impending unemployment, wasnt on a fixed term contract and hadnt seen a doctor in the 
previous 12 months  for anything that wasnt minor. 
But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish 
Mr and Mrs I had a need for it. For example, Ive nothing  to show that Halifax asked Mr I 
what redundancy or sickness benefits  his employer  provided.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs I given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs I, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr I met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN85041695-Mr and Mrs I had a need for the policy. Mr I was the main  wage  earner at the time  
indeed Mrs I doesnt appear to have had an income at that time. If Mr I couldnt work for 
an extended  period, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs I would suffer  a fall in income  and could 
find their finances under strain, even allowing for Mr Is work  benefits. The PPI benefit 
would help Mr and Mrs I manage  the consequences  of such a fall in income. They  didnt 
have much  in savings at the time either, and the policy benefit would help them  keep 
their savings  intact or free for other purposes  at what could be a difficult  time if Mr I was 
unemployed or too sick to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs I.
-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs I. There 
was nothing  about Mr Is employment  or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for them  to claim. And they havent  told us about  any pre-existing medical  conditions  
Mr I had that couldve affected their ability to claim.
-There were limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including  that the first 30 days of 
any disability or unemployment wasnt covered, benefits  were  only paid for a maximum 
of 12 months for each  claim and Mr and Mrs I couldnt claim for disability unless Mr I 
were unable  to do his own job, or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified him to do). But the policy still 
provided valuable  cover in Mr and Mrs Is circumstances  and given Mr Is position as the 
main wage  earner,  the role the policy benefit could play in helping Mr and Mrs I if Mr I 
couldnt work  for an extended time, the fact the policy  protected the mortgage payments 
on Mr and Mrs Is home  and the potential consequences if Mr and Mrs I were to have 
become unable to make the payments on a loan secured  against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs I sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs I were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr I 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs I would have 
taken the policy without any sense of what it was for and how much  the premium  might be.
Also, I think its likely Mr I was made  aware  of the monthly benefit  amount and of what the 
monthly premium would be, bearing in mind  that this was set out on the PPI application form 
he signed. But the evidence from the time doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs I agreed  to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs I, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs I. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave them  all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN85041696Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Is representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Is. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Is representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs I about  the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Is representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs I have suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs I? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it shouldve done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs I. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs I would have still taken the policy, had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs I, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs I have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case depends primarily on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs I would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  the 
policy in any event. Mr and Mrs I say they wouldnt have taken the PPI and believe I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively, the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN85041697The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs I had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised them  there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
Mr I were unable  to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Is circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs I were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the PPI, such as the limitations 
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs I thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health issue for which  Mr I had been advised 
or treated  by a medical practitioner  in the 12 months before the policy start if the issue  
recurred within 24 months of the policy start; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr I wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr I be unable to do his own 
job, or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work  his experience,  education or 
training reasonably  qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs I pause  for thought  and may well have  caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs I from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Is circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr I was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs I should  the insured  risks have become a reality.  
Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr I wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions,  hadnt visited a 
doctor for anything other than minor issues in the 12 months before taking the policy  and 
was in permanent  employment. So, with all the above  in mind, I think  Mr and Mrs I still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
Ref: DRN85041698I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs I might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs I from taking the policy,  Mr and Mrs I, in their circumstances, still had some good 
reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs I had known they could only claim for disability if Mr I were unable to do his 
own job, or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what to 
do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  but, given their circumstances, 
on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs I that any claim they made would be limited to a 12 
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was longer  than Mr I wouldve  received full sick pay. From what hes told us 
of his circumstances, his redundancy entitlement was also likely less than 12 months pay. In 
those circumstances,  I consider it likely Mr and Mrs I would have still thought a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  would  be of benefit to them  and help them manage 
the consequences should Mr I be unable to work,  particularly for a prolonged period, in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, 
could help reduce Mr and Mrs Is outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, could help 
preserve their limited savings for a while and leave these free for other uses  - and help 
ensure their home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs I would still have taken the policy. The policy was suitable for them,  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mr I were  made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr and Mrs I wouldve  taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Is representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs I would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN85041699Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Is 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs I found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs I believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs I in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept it is possible they would not 
have taken the PPI, Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that 
they would  still have taken the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  
information about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax  should  pay Mr and Mrs I 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs I think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs I, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Is representative says a court  might  take if 
it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs I and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs I in a better position than if everything 
had happened  as it should have  done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504169