K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 1999. The policy  gave Mr M 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It was taken out at the same time as Mr M 
applied for his credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Bank of Scotland  cant provide a copy of 
Mr Ms policy document so Ive relied on one from the nearest available  date and what we 
know about similar policies sold at this time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms representative says the optionality of the policy  wasnt  made clear to Mr M. 
Mr M cant recall  the sale in any detail. He applied by post, so without  any direct 
contact with the bank.  On his application  form Mr M signed a separate section to 
confirm he wanted  to take out PPI, and I dont think there was anything on the form 
that could reasonably have led him to think it was mandatory. Overall,  I think Bank of 
Scotland made it clear to Mr M the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out. I 
can understand he might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Mr Ms representative argues he didnt  need the cover as he had good sick pay and 
other means. But Bank  of Scotland didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for him. It was up to Mr M to decide whether the policy  
was right for him, bearing in mind his ability to make  his credit card repayments if he 
was sick or lost his job. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr M all the information  about the PPI that 
he needed before  he made his decision. But Mr M chose to take out the policy  and 
so appears to have  wanted this type of cover. He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr M wouldve made  a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN84183102To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418310