K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complaint about The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) is that when it failed  to 
correctly update his joint loan account this led to missed payments, and had a negative 
impact on him and his business.
background
Mr K held a joint loan account  with his partner, Ms S. They are now separated.  
In February 2018,  Ms K became insolvent,  and was unable to pay the loan. But Mr K told 
RBS hed be happy to take it over and make  all the repayments himself. However, instead of 
updating the account to reflect  this, a block was put on it, which  meant that when Mr K tried 
to make his next payment it failed. 
This led to late payment  markers on his credit file, which led to other problems  as time 
passed. 
Mr K complained to RBS and it accepted it had made a mistake.  It promised to update the 
account to reflect the new arrangement, correct his credit file, and sent him a cheque for 
£100 for the inconvenience. 
Over the following months,  it transpired that RBS hadnt actually put everything right, and 
Mr K had to keep complaining. In all, RBS issued four final responses to his complaints, and 
sent cheques  totalling £335  (£100  x 3, and £35 x1). 
Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and while he agreed that RBS had made a mess of 
things, he felt overall that what  it had done to resolve matters, and the cumulative payment 
of £335, was enough.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he only received  £235, and not £335, and that in any event even 
£335 wasnt sufficient  compensation  for what hed been through. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I reviewed the case, and felt that although I could see RBS had tried to make  things up to 
Mr K, I didnt quite think the £335 was enough, and that a modest increase to £500  would be 
fairer. 
RBS didnt agree, and asked for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im broadly in agreement  with our Investigator  that RBS did try its best to 
correct its mistakes, and put things right with Mr K. But Im not convinced the £335 its paid is 
quite enough.
Ref: DRN86989072Mr Ks explained that everything that had happened, and the time it had all taken,  had a 
huge impact on his life and business. He said this all happened  around the time he was 
starting his own company,  and this affected how it operated; what equipment  it could buy; 
and therefore  how much profit it could make. He said that hed been turned down for a loan 
to help expand  the business,  and felt that this was because of the incorrect information  RBS 
first recorded on his credit file, and then delayed removing.
Ive thought about how much compensation I think is fair here.  Its not in dispute that multiple  
mistakes were made by RBS, and that this matter has taken a long time to resolve.  There  
was the original mistake  in not updating the joint loan account  so that Mr K could  keep it 
open and continue repaying it. Then there were all the subsequent  mistakes and delays in 
putting this right. Then there was the recurring  problem with the account,  which  meant RBS 
ultimately decided  it would need  to be monitored  and managed manually to avoid a 
recurrence. And then there was the matter of the compensation cheques that were issued to 
Mr K, and not all received.  
Overall, looking from the outside,  although there  was no malice on RBSs part at any point, it 
does look like a shambles. So while Im encouraged that its accepted  its mistakes, I do think  
it should be open to paying  a higher compensation figure. I think £500,  inclusive  of what  
Mr Ks already received, is fair. 
Our service in an informal alternative to the courts,  and cant  and doesnt make  the levels of 
awards a court would  be likely to. Our awards  tend to be modest, and dont exist to punish  a 
business. Rather, theyre to acknowledge the impact a businesss mistake/behaviour  has 
had on a customer. While we dont have a precise scale,  our moderate awards range from 
£0 to £500. From £500 upwards, awards fall within our significant  category.  I think in this 
case what Mr Ks experienced falls at the top end of the moderate bracket, although not so 
far as to get into the significant one. 
I should also address  the fact that Mr K believes hes only received compensation of £235 so 
far. Ive asked RBS about this, and its confirmed  that it sent cheques as follows:-
19 December 2018 - £100
6 February 2019 - £100
11 February 2019 - £35
23 October 2018 - £100
My decision  is based  on all of this £335 having been  paid, and whatever portion remains  
unpaid (which appears to be £100 according  to Mr K) should  be paid in addition  to the 
increase of £165 from the £335  to £500.
I hope this is clear,  and I've explained why I think this decision is fair to both parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint, The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc should  
pay £500 to Mr K in total, minus any sums already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Ref: DRN86989073Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8698907