K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Virgin Money  plc has recorded a late payment marker on her account 
and removed a promotional interest  rate.
background
Ms H says she made a payment to her Virgin account before the due date. But this isnt 
shown on her statement  and as a result its recorded a late payment and removed a 0% 
promotional interest  rate from the account.  She isnt happy about the late payment  charge 
applied or that the promotional offer has been removed.  
Virgin said in its final response that the account statement produced on 25 November  2018  
confirmed it required a minimum  payment by 16 December 2018. As no payment was 
received by that date a £9 late payment charge was applied and the 0% promotional  interest  
rate on new purchases  was removed. The cards terms explain that this is what happens  if 
the minimum payment  isnt received  by the due date. Ms H had logged onto her account  on 
14 December 2018 as she said. But no attempts were made to make  a payment. She also 
logged on again  on 20 December, searched  and viewed her statement,  sent a secure  
message and then logged  off. The screen shot Ms H has provided doesnt prove she 
attempted to make  the payment as a date isnt visible.  As the minimum payment wasnt 
received in time it cannot reinstate the promotional 0% interest rate. And the £9 charge has 
been applied  correctly.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The November statement shows a minimum payment  was due by 16 December 
2018. But the next statement doesnt  show this as having been received.
Ms H says she made the minimum payment on 14 December 2018. Although Virgins 
audit log shows Ms H logging into her account  on that day, she didnt make a 
payment. And the screenshot shes provided  to prove the payment  doesnt show  any 
date. 
A payment is showing on her statement on 22 December 2018 which was likely 
made on 21 December.  But as the payment wasnt received on time by the due date, 
Virgin wasnt wrong to apply the £9 late payment charge. And it hasnt made an error 
withdrawing the 0% promotional interest  rate in line with whats said in its terms and 
conditions.
Virgin hasnt made an error and she isnt asking it to do anything.
Ms H doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says shes  provided  
evidence she had the money  available  in her bank account to make the payment to Virgin.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87999032I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Although Ms H has shown  shed  enough  money in her bank account to make  the minimum 
payment to Virgin the simple fact is she doesnt appear to have done so in time by the due 
date of 16 December  2018. 
Virgins audit log shows Ms H logged  onto her account on 14 December 2018 but she didnt  
make the payment during  that session. And it appears likely a payment wasnt  received until 
at least 20 December.
As the minimum payment didnt reach Virgin before or on the due date of 16 December 2018 
I think Virgin was entitled to apply a late payment charge of £9 and remove the promotional 
0% interest rate. This was all set out clearly  in the accounts terms and conditions and Virgin 
acted in line with them.
Overall, although I recognise  Ms Hs frustration, I dont think  I can fairly or reasonably require 
Virgin to refund the late payment charge or reinstate the 0% interest  rate as shed like. And I 
dont see any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8799903