K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  (Sun  Life) 
mis-sold her an income protection policy.
background
In October  1994 Ms S took out an income protection policy with Sun Life. In 2018 Ms S said 
she became aware  that her policy would end in 2020 when she became 60 years  old. Ms S 
said because of changes  within  the law, she would need to continue  working until 67 and 
wouldnt be covered  for these additional  seven years.
Ms S asked Sun Life to extend  the policy to cover  her until she retired.  But as it wouldnt,  she 
said the policy was mis-sold specifically  because it wouldnt  cover her up until the age of 65. 
So she complained and asked Sun Life for compensation.
Sun Life said its advisor considered her needs  and circumstances  at the time, and sold a 
policy with an income protection  benefit that expired at age 60. It said this was in line with 
her state  retirement age at the time as well as her employee pension.  So Sun Life said the 
policy was suitable  for her needs at the time. And it said it couldnt  be held responsible for 
later changes in legislation introduced by the Government.
Sun Life also said it wrote to Ms S in 2013,  following an enquiry she made,  to tell her the 
terms and conditions of her policy didnt allow for the income protection  age to be extended. 
Ms S brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators  looked into her 
concerns and didnt  uphold  the complaint. He said had Ms S highlighted she wasnt  unhappy 
with the level of cover sold to her, but felt the representative shouldve  drawn her attention  to 
the upcoming changes to retirement ages in the future.
The investigator said Sun Life set the retirement  age as 60 for the policy as this was the 
state pension  age for women at the time. He said at the time Ms S took out her policy, the 
proposed legislation that changed this hadnt yet become law. So he wouldnt have expected 
Sun Life to have raised these potential changes with Ms S. He also said he thought it was 
fair for Sun Life to use different retirement ages for men and women at the time as that 
reflected the legal position at the time.
The investigator went on to consider  whether  Sun Life acted  fairly  when considering  Ms S 
request to extend  the retirement age of the policy. He said the policy didnt contain any 
provisions to allow for this, and so it had fairly declined this request in line with the terms.
Ms S disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why. As Ms S has complained  
about more than one aspect of the policy Ive considered these in turn.
Ref: DRN83817552extension of the income protection  age 
Ms S asked Sun Life to extend  the age of her policy from 60 to her future  retirement age. It 
considered this and said this wasnt possible under the policy terms. Ms S hasnt said 
Sun Life told her this was possible or that theres  anything within  the policy that allows for 
this. 
However put simply, Ms S doesnt think it is fair for Sun Life to not amend the policy  as she 
has asked. Having carefully read the policy terms and conditions myself, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest this would be an option available to her as there is no provision  within the terms and 
conditions to extend the period of cover.  And, while I appreciate the reason shes asked for 
Sun Life to consider the request, Im satisfied  it has acted  fairly and reasonably  by declining 
it because it wasnt ever an option for her to buy that level of cover at the point of sale.
mis-sale of the income protection policy
Ms S said the policy was mis-sold because  it wouldnt provide her with cover beyond the age 
of 60, and that Sun Life shouldve warned her of the changes to legislation.
Ms S hasnt suggested  she was unhappy  with the level of cover  that was provided, so I see 
no reason to consider the cost or benefits  of the policy overall as theres no dispute about 
them. Instead Ive considered whether Sun Life acted fairly and reasonably when selling  a 
policy that provided her with cover until she turned 60  taking  into account the change of 
law that took place sometime afterwards.
The relevant  industry  guidelines at the time said that as the sale was advised Sun Life had a 
responsibility to make  sure that the policy  was right for Ms S.
Ms S policy was sold in October 1994 and I can see that the advisor took into account 
Ms S planned retirement age and other factors such as her employee sick pay. The change  
in legislation Ms S has highlighted   The Pensions  Act 1995  came  into force some way 
into the following  year. Ms S feels Sun Life shouldve been aware of these proposed 
changes and recommended a more  suitable policy. However, these changes were  not law at 
the time of sale, and didnt come into force until sometime after. 
It follows I dont think it would be fair to expect  Sun Life to have recommended a policy to 
account for only potential  proposed changes to legislation. And Im satisfied the policy it sold 
Ms S was suitable  for her needs so Im not asking  it to do anything further. 
I can see that when  Ms S queried whether the policy could be extended  in 2013 Sun Life 
wrote to her explaining  that it couldnt. Ms S says she didnt get that letter. But Im satisfied it 
was sent as Sun Life has produced a copy. Other correspondence from Sun Life went to 
Ms S around the same time and she responded to it. So it seems most likely to be it was 
correctly addressed and sent. 
It was also open  to Ms S to contact  Sun Life at the point the new legislation came into force, 
or in 2013,  if she was concerned about  her policy. Sun Life would have  then been  able to 
offer Ms S further advice  and reassess the suitability of the policy for her needs. 
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN83817553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8381755