K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs J bought  the policy in 2003  at the same  time as taking out a further  advance  to 
their existing mortgage. They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in-branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs J (split equally) for accident, sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay around £140  a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Js mortgage balance  in the event either of them made a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost a little less than £17 a month.  
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a warehouse supervisor.  He has told us he was entitled 
to six months full sick pay and had around £3,000 in savings he couldve used to repay  their 
mortgage should he be unable to work. He also said he was entitled to three months 
redundancy pay. Mr J has said that he suffered from chickenpox as a child  but I dont 
consider this to be a pre-existing medical  condition. So I think  Mr J was to all intents and 
purposes in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs J was employed as a valuation assistant. She has told us she was entitled to six 
months full sick pay and also had around £3,000  in savings she couldve used  to repay their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. She has said she was entitled to three  months 
redundancy pay. And like her husband,  she has said she suffered from chickenpox as a 
child. But as I concluded above, because this isnt a pre-existing medical condition, I think 
Mrs J was to all intents and purposes  in good health  at the time of the sale.  
BoS has provided evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Js policy  was cancelled in 2004,  and 
screenshots to show that the mortgage account  became  a regulated  mortgage  when Mr and 
Mrs J took out a subsequent further  advance in 2005.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Js representative says:
BoS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs J 
wouldnt have  taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Js representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN87705992claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs J about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs J and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs J received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Js. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs J arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN87705993complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Js case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN87705994-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs J with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs J, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs J 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs J 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs J know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs J say they never 
asked for, wanted or needed  PPI.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mr and Mrs Js further advance  application form. 
Looking at this I can see there is a separate section for PPI titled Accident, sickness and 
unemployment insurance which, after a broad description of the cover asked the question 
whether the applicant wanted PPI or not requiring a tick in one of two boxes  Yes  or No. 
There is a tick in the Yes box and both Mr and Mrs J have signed this separate  section of 
the form. 
There is a handwritten note in this section, which says MRC requested  in Mr Js sole name,  
but BoS says the policy was ultimately set up in joint names with an equal benefit split.
Im mindful that it appears Mr and Mrs J cancelled their policy about 15 months  after they 
took it out, so I think they knew they had the cover. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs J knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mr and Mrs J say BoS didnt advise them to take out PPI. BoS says it did provide advice 
during this sale. Based on both our understanding of how sales like Mr and Mrs Js were 
carried out and on what Ive seen, I think BoS advised Mr and Mrs J when it sold them the 
PPI.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs J with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN87705995I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs J. It seems  Mr and Mrs J cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no detailed record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some 
limited information about  Mr and Mrs Js financial circumstances from the further  advance  
application and a pre-application questionnaire Mr and Mrs J completed to assist BoS  
assessment of their further advance application.
But there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr and 
Mrs J would have been caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations, which  might  
have meant  the policy did not fully meet their needs,  or the extent  to which  they were already 
able to meet  their mortgage payments if they found  themselves unable to work.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs J given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs J both met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs J had a need  for the policy. It seems likely  that Mr and Mrs Js ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either or both of them were not working  for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the employee benefits  they say they would have been entitled  to and 
their savings.  The policy  wouldve  paid out alongside these existing means  and for 
longer than both their sick pay entitlements would have lasted. So I think  the policy  
would have helped  Mr and Mrs J manage  the consequences if they were  unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs J.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs J. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Js employment or occupation, which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And notwithstanding the fact that Mr and Mrs 
J were in good health at the time of the sale, because  they took out the policy at the 
same time as the further advance,  the existing medical condition  limitation  didnt 
apply to their policy.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs J be disabled or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided useful  cover  given:
Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, including their employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  waiting  period)  and the limits  to those provisions, which  
mean the policy could  play an important role after those provisions  were  
exhausted; and
Ref: DRN87705996The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs J be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs J were unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs J 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. Im mindful that the PPI section within  the further advance 
application provided a broad description  of the cover.  And at the very least, I think  they 
wouldve seen this.
The application referred to a leaflet  where  Mr and Mrs J could  find out more. But the 
evidence from the time of sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient information about 
the actual monthly  benefit, the actual  cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr 
and Mrs J agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs J, Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs J all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Js. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Js representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs J about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN87705997Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Js representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs J have suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs J? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs J suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs J. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs J suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs J would have  still taken  out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs J, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs J have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs J would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs J say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs J had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, the available evidence  doesnt  tell me that BoS told them the exact 
premium at the point  Mr and Mrs J applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr 
and Mrs J would have  been told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the 
policy for over 12 months. So if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations at 
Ref: DRN87705998the point of sale, I think its likely they would have  raised that with BoS at the time,  or its 
possible they might have reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs J would have found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs J would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Js 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their share of the mortgage payment) were  significantly different to what the policy  
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs J thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy contained limitations on claims for unemployment cover if Mr and Mrs J 
were self-employed; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs J be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations above might well have  caused  Mr and Mrs J 
pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy  wasnt as good  
as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs J from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs J were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
useful to them should the insured risks have become a reality.
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs J wouldve been  caught by any of 
the significant exclusions  the pre-existing medical condition limitation didnt apply to Mr 
and Mrs Js policy (they were in good  health at the time of the sale in any event)  and they 
were both employed in permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some  good  reasons 
to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
J might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs J from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs J, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs J had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
Ref: DRN87705999reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs J were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs J that any claim they made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 24 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs J would have  received  full sick pay for, 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs J would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should either of them be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve their sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use - e.g. ongoing household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs J would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs J were  made redundant,  or 
unable to work through accident  or sickness. In the circumstances  I consider it more  likely 
than not Mr and Mrs J would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Js representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs J would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs J found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs J believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN877059910to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs J in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs J compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs J think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr and Mrs J, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Js representative says a court  might  take if 
it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs J and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs J in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8770599