K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a claim he made on his Great Lakes Insurance SE legal expenses 
insurance policy, which was declined.
All references to Great Lakes  include  their claims handlers.
background
Mr K was involved  in an accident  during which he suffered an injury in December 2017. His 
policy was in place  with Great Lakes at that time but he didnt  claim on it until November 
2018. The claim was for cover to bring  a legal claim in respect of the injury hed suffered the 
previous year.
Great Lakes said the policy  would only cover Mr K for claims made during the period  he was 
insured with them. Mr Ks policy with Great  Lakes  ran out in August 2018. When Mr K 
renewed the policy, another insurer took it on at that stage-  so Great  Lakes say they were  no 
longer on risk for the claim.
Mr K feels  that Great Lakes should accept his claim. He says he didnt contact them sooner 
because he was unwell and undergoing treatment for his injuries.  He also says he was 
waiting to see whether  he would  recover and that it was only when it became clear  he wasnt  
recovering that he contacted Great Lakes to make his claim.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks claim and concluded it should  be upheld.  She said that it 
wasnt fair for Great Lakes to apply the policy terms in the way they had in this instance. 
Because of this she directed them to consider  Mr Ks complaint in accordance with the 
remaining policy terms.
Great Lakes dont agree  so the matter has been  passed to me do decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that Mr Ks 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Its true that Mr Ks Great Lakes insurance  is a claims made policy.  That means  that it only 
covers claims  made whilst the policy is in force. In this case Mr Ks claim was made  after the 
policy expired so Great Lakes said they wouldnt consider it any further. 
Ordinarily Id agree that Great Lakes  were entitled to do this. But in this case  Mr K had 
continuous legal expenses insurance  cover. When he renewed his policy  in August 2018,  his 
new policy was also a claims  made policy. But the new insurer said they also werent  
prepared to cover his claim because Mr K didnt tell them  about  it within  90 days of the event 
giving rise to the claim (in this case the accident) happening and because  Mr K shouldve  
realised when buying the insurance that there  may be a claim made on it- and that situation 
was excluded.
Where a policyholder  has continuous legal expenses insurance cover and their claim is 
excluded by a past and present insurer because of when the claim was made, we usually 
think its fair that one of those insurers should  consider  the claim. Thats subject to the 
Ref: DRN88297052circumstances of each  complaint.  In this case I think its fair for Great Lakes to consider Mr 
Ks claim. Thats because  the claim was only made a few months after cover ended and the 
event that gave rise to the claim occurred  during the period  of cover.  In addition I havent  
seen anything to suggest that Great Lakes have been prejudiced in any way by Mr Ks delay 
in making the claim, after the accident  occurred. So whilst I accept that Mr K did notify his 
claim considerably after the event that gave rise to it, I dont think this has had an adverse 
impact on Great Lakes,  such that they shouldnt cover it. 
Great Lakes have made a number of submissions about why a claims  made policy doesnt 
and shouldnt extend to claims made after the expiration of insurance.  I take all of those 
submissions on board and wouldve been  inclined to agree with them  had Mr K not had 
continuous legal expenses insurance  cover  and one of the reasons for the claim  being  
rejected by his current insurer not been reasonable-  in particular that Mr K wouldve  known  
he had cause to make a claim  when  he bought  that policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint  and direct  Great  Lakes Insurance  
SE to consider  his claim under  the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8829705