K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr N under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he signed in October  2018. He returned  the car to the dealer  about a week later 
because of an issue with its gears   but no fault could be found. A fault with the gears was 
repaired under  the cars warranty by another garage  in November 2018 and the software  
was then updated by a manufacturers dealer  but the fault continued  so Mr N asked to 
reject the car. Further repairs  to the car took place  in December 2018 and Mr N complained 
to MotoNovo Finance about the car in January 2019.
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in March  2019 and it said 
that it was unable to uphold  his complaint  as there  was no evidence to confirm  that any of 
the current faults were  developing  at the point of sale. Mr N wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
repairs were unsuccessful and she wouldnt expect Mr N to have  experienced these 
problems so soon  after entering into the finance  agreement. So she thought that Mr N 
should be allowed  to reject the car. She recommended  that MotoNovo  Finance should: 
remove any adverse information  from Mr Ns credit file; collect  the car; unwind the finance 
agreement and write off the outstanding balance; pay Mr N £150  compensation for the 
inconvenience of the situation;  and refund repair costs  totalling £626.81.
MotoNovo Finance said that it didnt receive the adjudicators recommendations so they 
were resent to it in June  2019. It accepted those recommendations in October  2019.  Mr N 
said that he started paying  for a replacement  car in July 2019 and that he made a statutory 
off-road notification for the faulty car in August 2019 when the cars  mileage was 92,025 
miles. So he says that he should receive a refund  of the monthly payments that hes made 
for the car since the adjudicators recommendations.
MotoNovo Finance says that Mr N has covered a further 8,827 miles since  the independent 
inspection which would  indicate that the car was fit for purpose  at the point of sale.  So it says 
that it wont agree to refund any monthly payments to Mr N.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N 
and to MotoNovo  Finance on 20 April 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that it 
was of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr N. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
him was more than seven  years old, had been  driven for 73,000  miles and had a 
price of £10,450. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability which  means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
Ref: DRN86386922Mr N first reported  issues with the cars gears about  a week after the car was 
supplied to him. The dealer couldnt find a fault but over the following few months  
there were warranty repairs and repairs that Mr N paid for to try to deal with the 
issues  but those repairs were unsuccessful.
Mr N complained to MotoNovo Finance  about the car in January 2019  and it 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in March  2019. The 
experts report recorded that the car had been  driven for 83,177 miles in total and 
concluded that there were issues with the cars  transmission which required further 
attention. But it said that in its opinion  the conditions wouldnt have been  developing  
at finance inception.
Mr N had complained  about issues with the cars gears since  soon after the car was 
supplied to him and repairs  had been  attempted over several months. The 
independent expert  then concluded that there were issues with the cars  gears.  
I consider it to be more  likely than not that those  issues were  present when the car 
was supplied to Mr N  and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because  
of those issues. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to allow Mr N to 
reject the car. Mr N started paying for another car in July 2019  and made  a statutory 
off-road notification about the faulty car in August 2019. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance to end the hire purchase agreement and to 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mr N. 
Mr N hasnt used the car since August 2019 and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance to refund  to him the monthly payments that hes 
made for the car since then (with  interest) and that it should remove  any adverse 
information about the agreement that its recorded  on his credit file. I consider that 
MotoNovo Finance can keep the monthly payments that he made before then as 
payment for the use that hes had from the car.
Mr N has made payments totalling £626.81 for the repair  and other costs identified  in 
the adjudicators  recommendations.  He also paid £280.78 in March  2019 to a 
manufacturers dealer  for further work  on the cars  gearbox.  I consider that it would 
be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance to refund  him for all of those costs  a 
total of £907.59  with interest.
These events will have  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr N. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to also pay him £150 to compensate  him for that 
distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Mr N or MotoNovo Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Mr N has accepted my provisional  
decision but MotoNovo  Finance hasnt responded to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN86386923My provisional decision was sent to MotoNovo Finance by e-mail in April 2020 using its 
correct e-mail address but no response to that decision has been received from it. So I dont  
consider there to be any reason for me to change my provisional decision.  
 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I order 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr N  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr N the monthly  payments  that hes made under the agreement since the 
date of the statutory off-road notification  about  the car.
3.Refund to Mr N the costs that hes incurred totalling £907.59
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Mr Ns credit  
file.
6.Pay £150 to Mr N to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 4 above. MotoNovo Finance  must  give Mr N a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8638692