K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Mrs B in 2003. I can 
see the application form contains  a section about PPI. I note a box has been  marked with a 
cross to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The credit  card 
was applied for during a meeting. The application form contains details of Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time. So I think the form was likely  completed  during a discussion, then 
printed and passed to Mrs B to check and sign. I think its likely the PPI was discussed and 
accepted by Mrs B during this conversation. 
I also note the PPI remained on the account for some  time and the premiums  would have  
appeared on Mrs Bs monthly statements. If Mrs B had not agreed  to the PPI, or didnt want 
it, Id expect her to have  questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not see any evidence that 
she did so.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. 
Mrs B has told us shed only receive  statutory  sick pay if she was unable to work.  But the 
PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Mrs B couldnt work. Itd also have 
paid out if she lost her job. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking  
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN80814332If it hasnt  done  so already Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mrs B now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8081433