K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  has unfairly declined her claim  for damage to 
her home under her building insurance policy. Mrs S said she had met the terms of the 
insurance contract and Amtrust should  pay her claim.
background
Mrs S said she took specialised unoccupied property insurance on her property and it was 
severely damaged  by fire the following month.  She said Amtrust declined her claim without 
seeing her building estimates,  saying she hadnt  met her policy  obligations. 
Mrs S said a relative had lived in the house but she was unaware they hoarded  things and it 
took her two years to clear most of this after their death. She said her insurer  wouldnt renew  
the policy and the house was uninsured until Amtrusts six month policy.  She said six months 
would have been enough for building work needed  to let the property to be completed,  but 
then the fire took place. Mrs S said the fire service said the fire started in the kitchen and the 
back door was open when  they arrived, but access  may have been  via the kitchen window.
Amtrusts loss adjuster  arranged for a forensic  report. Mrs S said the forensic report  stated 
the fire was due to arson and that this would have been less likely had the two key-operated 
security bolts  on the back door been  engaged. She said she had been  searching for this key 
unsuccessfully since her relative died. She said the doors mortice lock was engaged.
The forensic report indicated the fire was either started deliberately,  or from an electrical 
appliance. Amtrust said in either event Mrs S had breached the terms of the policy. It said 
only the mortice  lock had been engaged  on the back door and so Mrs S had failed to 
maintain the security of the house  as required. It said Mrs S was in breach of a condition that 
required her to turn off electricity at the mains and to clear all combustible material. 
Mrs S said she left a light on even though the policy required all electrics to be turned off, to 
indicate the house wasnt unoccupied. She said the remaining combustible material wasnt  in 
the kitchen where  the fire started. Mrs S said she hadnt kept a record  of her visits as 
required by the policy, but had visited regularly.  She said the policy  required visits at least 
every week,  but policy documents stated visits should be every  30 days. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said it seemed the kitchen 
door had been  forced open and both parties  agree that the security bolts werent  engaged.  
He said Mrs S couldve fitted new locks, but a generic key from a hardware shop wouldve 
done. He said the key having been left in the lock meant the door was less secure.  He said it 
was clear Mrs S didnt fully secure  the property, as required  by the policy  conditions.  He said 
the only other possible cause of the fire was an unrelated fault with the fridge/freezer. He 
said there was no reason  that the fridge/freezer wouldve been left on for security  reasons 
and this was a breach of the policy terms. He said Amtrust had fairly declined Mrs Ss claim.
Mrs S disagreed saying  there was no explanation why, if the glass door panel  was broken 
and the mortice lock and bolt disengaged, the door was found open with the lock in place. 
She said policy and police  advice specify mortice deadlocks as being adequate,  but she 
accepted the key shouldnt have been  left in the lock. She said despite  errors of judgement 
Amtrust should honour the policy. Mrs S requested  an ombudsman review  her complaint. 
Ref: DRN89081662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has declined Mrs Ss claim because it says she has breached  the terms of the 
policy. Ive looked  closely at Amtrusts decisions  and handling of Mrs Ss claim to see if it has 
acted within  the terms and conditions of her policy and treated her fairly. 
Mrs S held unoccupied  residential property insurance. The policy  requires that electricity be 
turned off at the mains.  I take Mrs Ss point that a light was left on to give the impression of 
occupancy, but this doesnt explain why the appliances were left on. Leaving  appliances 
switched on in unoccupied house poses a risk that the term of the policy  is designed to 
remove, and it seems  clear that Mrs S was in breach  of the term.
Its not possible to say with certainty  how entry was gained to Mrs Ss house, but from the 
evidence it appears  the most likely explanation  is through  the back  door.  Her policy states 
that all protections  provided for the security of the home must be in full and effective 
operation whenever  the property is unattended. Mrs S said she couldnt find the key for the 
back door bolts and both parties agree  that a key was left on the inside of the mortice lock. 
Mrs S hasnt said why a key was left in the lock, but raises a question about  the unlikelihood 
of the mortice lock being  disengaged.  I think its clear that the door wasnt nearly as secure 
as it could have  been and this meant  it failed to meet the standard of the policy term. The 
forensic report also states that window locks were not deployed  and this also falls below the 
standard of the term. 
The policy requires that all combustible material be removed from the property, but from the 
reports combustible material  was present. Mrs S said the material wasnt where the fire was 
thought to have started.  Its not clear to me what role the combustible material  played in the 
fire, but I can understand Amtrusts concerns and it seems clear that Mrs S was in breach  of 
the term.
Mrs S said her policy documents  require her to visit the property every 30 days,  not weekly  
as Amtrust has said. Policy conditions specific to Mrs S are included  within  her Schedule  
and override general conditions within the policy. Mrs Ss Schedule requires her to visit 
every 30 days, and from what she has said I think Mrs S met this requirement.  I think it was 
inaccurate and careless of Amtrust  to refer to weekly visits in its response  to her complaint. 
However, I dont think this undermines the fairness  of Amtrusts decision to decline her claim 
based on her non-compliance with the other  terms to which I have referred.   
The policy states  that failure  to comply with the requirements will mean that a claim for 
damage from unauthorised entry will be invalid. The reason for this is that compliance with 
the terms of the policy would  increase the security of the property  making a break-in much  
less likely.
Amtrust has said that the breaches of the policy terms  by Mrs S could be considered as 
direct causes of the fire, and I think this is a reasonable conclusion for it to draw from the 
evidence. Whilst I sympathise with Mrs S for the predicament she finds  herself in and the 
confusion from Amtrust about the visit requirements, I think she has clearly  breached  
Ref: DRN89081663important terms of the policy, and so I think  that it was both fair and reasonable for Amtrust  
to decline her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8908166