K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Yorkshire Building  Society  made an account she is trustee on dormant  
and wont now allow her access  to the money held in it. 
background
Ms L opened up a savings account in trust for her relative in 1998 with Yorkshire.  She 
deposited some money when the account  was opened and no further deposits or 
withdrawals have been made. 
In 2017 the account was made dormant by Yorkshire. Ms L says she found out about this 
shortly afterwards when she tried to transfer the money  to a different account  in her name. 
Ms L said the money belonged to her and Yorkshire  was unfairly preventing  her from 
accessing it. She said Yorkshire should  have warned  her it was going to make the account 
dormant.  
Yorkshire said Ms L couldnt  transfer  the money into an account in her name because she 
wasnt the account holder and beneficiary  of the money  her relative was. It said it didnt 
have valid identification  documents  on file for the account holder. And without this, Yorkshire  
werent willing to remove  the dormancy flag from the account. It paid Ms L £50 
compensation for the poor way it had communicated the dormancy with her. It also agreed  to 
backdate any lost interest as soon as it received identification from the account  holder. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Yorkshire hadnt done 
anything wrong  in placing the account  into dormancy particularly because it needed to 
ensure it had sufficient  identification for the account holder. He thought the offer of £50 
compensation and reinstating the interest  was a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Ms L didnt  agree. In summary,  she said Yorkshire  was denying her access  to her own 
money. She explained  that the account had always required just her signature for a 
withdrawal so it should still operate in the same way. She said Yorkshire was required to 
send notification to customers that an account  will be made dormant. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Yorkshire isnt required  to send its customers notice before placing an account  into 
dormancy - although it is considered good  industry practice. But the reasons for the account 
being made dormant  in this case are a little different  to normal. As well as there being a lack 
of account activity and correspondence, Yorkshire also needed to meet  its regulatory 
obligations of having sufficient identification on file for its customer (Ms Ls relative).  
Yorkshire has explained that this is the reason it didnt write out before making the account  
dormant (as it might  increase the risk of fraud on the account). I agree with Ms L that it would 
have been helpful if Yorkshire had written out to her in the first instance to explain this. But 
I think the £50 it has already paid for the issues surrounding the dormancy  is fair 
Ref: DRN88333162compensation for its lack of contact. This is because Ms L hasnt  lost out financially, and she 
did discover the dormancy relatively  quickly anyway. 
Ms L says Yorkshire is unfairly preventing her from accessing her money. I realise Ms L 
feels very strongly about this point, but the money in the account doesnt  belong to her. Her 
relative is the account holder and they are the rightful owner of the money in the account. It 
is irrelevant that Ms L opened the account  and used her money  as the initial deposit. The 
account was always set up to benefit  her relative  so they became the owner  of the money as 
soon as the money was deposited. 
Yorkshire has previously written to Ms L to explain the account can no longer operate in the 
way it has previously because the account holder is now an adult. It says any withdrawal 
from the account should be made for the benefit  of the account holder, not Ms L. This is why 
Yorkshire now requires  identification from her relative in order  to meet its regulatory 
obligations. Ms L says she doesnt want to tell her relative about  the account  as she wants it 
to be a surprise for them. Whilst I can appreciate Ms Ls intentions,  I cant agree Yorkshire 
has done anything  wrong or acted unfairly.  
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Yorkshire to give Ms L access to the money 
in the account without  permission from the account holder. This is because  the account 
holder might  not wish for the money to be moved  (if they knew of its existence). Further  it 
would also mean  Yorkshire couldnt comply with their regulatory obligations. For all these 
reasons, I dont think Yorkshire needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8833316