K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Ferratum UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
 
background
Mrs S was given a loan for £350 by Ferratum on 5 December 2017  to be repaid  by two 
monthly instalments  of £177.53 and a final instalment of £108.11. Mrs S repaid the loan
early. Mrs S said the loan was unaffordable as she was £5,000 overdrawn at the time and 
she had three other payday loans.  
Ferratum said that it had made a credit check before the loan with a credit reference agency,  
and acted on the information  provided.  Ferratum also obtained details of Mrs Ss income 
from her which  it said was £3,001
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She hadnt seen 
Ferratums credit check. But shed also seen nothing  on Mrs Ss own credit report to suggest 
that more detailed checks should  have  been  carried out. She said that Mrs Ss income 
suggested that she could sustainably meet the repayments. 
Mrs S disagreed and responded  to say that at the time of her loan application  she was 
significantly in debt.  She had £20,000  in unsecured debt.  Mrs S said that she had repaid her 
loan early as she had sold her house to pay her debts. She didnt believe that Ferratum had 
carried out its credit checks properly. She said that she had a number of other short  term 
loans at the same time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN81858272refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint.
The repayments that Mrs S agreed  to make were  small compared to the income she 
declared to Ferratum. And given the amounts Mrs S needed to repay, what  was apparent  
about her circumstances at the time and that this was her first loan with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Ferratum to ask her for the amount  of information 
that might  have shown  the lending was unsustainable.  
And Im not aware of anything in the information Ferratum shouldve  been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate to start independently checking  Mrs Ss true financial 
position.  
I appreciate that Mrs S says her bank  statements  and credit report  would have shown a far 
worse position than was identified  by the lenders checks. Ferratum hasnt been  able to 
provide us with the results of its credit check.  And it wasnt  required to carry out a credit 
check in any particular  way (or at all).
But Im not aware  from the information Ive seen on Mrs Ss own credit report of any adverse 
information such as county court judgements or defaults within  the six months prior to the 
loan that should have  caused additional concerns to the lender. 
Im also aware that when  a lender carries  out a credit search,  the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, Mrs S may have  taken other 
payday or short term loans prior to the loan which may not have been  identified by 
Ferratums credit check. So, this may explain any differences between the information 
provided by Ferratums credit check and Mrs Ss actual situation.
Ref: DRN81858273Overall, I think that the checks Ferratum  did were sufficient, and they suggested  that Mrs S 
could afford  the repayments on the loan.  So I dont  think Ferratum did anything wrong in 
agreeing to give this loan to Mrs S. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8185827