K821x#15complaint
Mr M says PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr M. Mr Ms borrowing history with
Mr Lender is detailed  below:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 20/05/2014 25/07/2014 1 £400.00 £470.00
2 25/07/2014 17/10/2014 6 £700.00 £326.66
3 17/10/2014 02/11/2016 6 £1,000.00 £466.66
4 22/02/2018 01/06/2018 6 £200.00 £89.33
5 01/06/2018 20/07/2018 6 £600.00 £189.60
There was a significant break in the lending relationship  between  loans 3 and 4 of over 3 
years.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and said that Mr Lender  wasnt required to do any 
more when it gave  Mr M loans 1, 2, 4 and 5. Mr Lender made  an offer on loan 5 to Mr M. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Lender did enough  when it gave Mr M loan 3. Mr Lender  did 
not agree  with her reasons. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN82791332the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. I think  that it is important for me to start by 
saying that Mr Lender was required to establish  whether Mr M could sustainably repay his 
loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Lender made an offer on loan 5 to Mr M. Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed 
to do any more when  it lent Mr M loans 1,2 and 4. Mr M didnt disagree with this so I wont  
be making further findings on these loans, but I have considered them  when looking at Mr 
Ms borrowing history  and his financial situation overall.
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Mr M when he applied  for loan 3. This 
included getting  details of his income and expenditure. I can see from evidence submitted by
Mr Lender that it did carry out checks on Mr M. However, I think  if Mr Lender had properly 
considered Mr Ms financial situation  and the lending I think  it would have seen that Mr M 
was not in a position  to take on this borrowing.
I say this because  Mr M was borrowing £1,000 and his highest repayment for the loan was 
£466.66. Given Mr Ms reported income  of £1,800 this repayment represented a significant  
proportion of Mr Ms income, and I think Mr Lender ought to have realised this and the 
potential for Mr M to struggle to make  the repayment. Mr Lender has argued  that only the 
first payment  was this high and the remaining repayments for the loan were  significantly 
lower. I agree with this and can see that the repayments went as low as £216.71. However, 
Mr Lender was under a duty to consider the impact of the borrowing on Mr M for the entire 
duration of the loan,  not just individual payments. And given  that the first repayment for the 
loan was so high it seems  there was a significant  chance of Mr M having to borrow again to 
meet his commitment under this loan. 
Mr Lender has also referred  to the changes in the length of the loans  Mr M took out, 
meaning they were  suitable as they didnt take away a chunk of his income. It also says it 
would have been beneficial for Mr M to use the same lender rather than going to multiple 
lenders. Looking at Mr Ms borrowing I can see that for loan 1 Mr M was borrowing £400  and 
for loan 2 he was borrowing £700.  Loan 2 was taken out as soon as loan 1 was repaid, and 
loan 2 was also repaid  early. Mr M was also ramping up his borrowing for each loan. So by 
loan 3 I think Mr Lender  ought to have been  looking to build a clearer  picture  of Mr Ms 
Ref: DRN82791333finances and it shouldve considered the impact  on him of lending  £1,000  for loan 3, even if it 
was spread over six months. 
Mr Lender was under a duty to ensure the lending could be sustainably  repaid and in Mr Ms 
case I dont think it was. And I think this wouldve been clear to Mr Lender  at the outset when 
it gathered information  from Mr M.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
Mr Lender should  honour the offer it made  to Mr M for loan 5 if it hasnt  already  done so. Mr 
Lender also shouldnt  have given Mr M loan 3.
A)  Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M 
towards interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a 
third party where applicable,  but not including anything it has already refunded.
B)  Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments 
made by Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr 
M originally made the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)  Mr Lender should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D)  Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mr 
Ms credit file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should give Mr M a
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited  should  
put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8279133