K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains as director  of S  a limited company. His complaint is that in 2010  The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold  an interest rate hedging product (IRHP) to S.
background
S invests in rental properties. In August 2009 RBS agreed to Ss request for new borrowing 
to fund five student  flats.  It was a condition of the lending that S took out an IRHP. In 
December 2009  S signed the loan agreement for £590,000. And in April 2010 the bank sold 
an IRHP which capped  the interest rate at 4% on half of the new borrowing from June 2010 
to 30 September  2013 with the premium of £448  charged quarterly.
In 2014, following a complaint from S, the bank reviewed the sale of the IRHP and decided  it 
wasnt mis-sold.  S says it didnt receive the banks letter dated 30 June 2014 to that effect. In 
July 2017 S contacted the bank again  to review the sale of the IRHP  as well as the way it 
had handled  its complaint.  RBSs  position  remained unchanged and it replied in August 2017 
saying it had already  reviewed the sale and issued its final response  on 30 June  2014.  S 
continued to write to the bank because  it wasnt happy  with its response.  And in any case  S 
maintained it hadnt received the banks June 2014  letter.
In February 2018  S referred the complaint to us. The bank consented to us dealing it, in 
spite of its June 2014 final response letter. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and, like the bank, concluded the IRHP 
wasnt mis-sold.  He felt the IRHP  was a legitimate condition  of lending, and he didnt agree 
with S that it was unfair  of the bank to make it a condition 
RBS agreed with the adjudicators conclusions but S didnt. Mr G has made  the following 
comments on Ss behalf  in summary:  
At the time the IRHP was sold not only were there significant guarantees in place but 
also sufficient personal resources  to mitigate  any rental income shortfall  arising from 
possible interest rate increases. Therefore the banks insistence there should also be 
an IRHP was an abuse of its position  rather than the legitimate exercise  of its 
commercial judgement. 
The negotiation  of a reduction  from 75% to 50% in the IRHP cover doesnt alter the 
fact it wasnt needed. The banks agreement to the reduction, without question, 
demonstrates the product wasnt intended to protect S but to earn commission  from 
the sale as well as boosting bank profits. Therefore the adjudicators  suggestion it 
was prudent for S to hedge ignores the circumstances in which the hedge  happened.  
By the time the banks  motives became clear, significant funds and time had already 
been committed and thats why S continued  with the loan. It wasnt practical in the 
time frame for S to find alternative funding when it was known the bank required an 
IRHP. In the commercial  environment, once a small business  is on a lending  path its 
not feasible to chop  and change.  
Funds to develop the student flats were  lent by the bank to the builder because the 
sector was expanding. It was therefore  a fallacy for the bank to suggest S was 
operating in a problem  sector  which made it cautious about  lending. 
Ref: DRN80502302Its wrong to suggest Ss calculation of rental income made  no allowance for costs 
and rental voids whereas the bank did and therefore revealed  a possible shortfall. 
Before it agreed to lend,  the bank required 50 week contracts to be in place for all the 
flats so rental voids were  already  addressed and therefore couldnt be a justification  
for insisting on the IRHP 
The failure to insist on an IRHP when the lending was renewed in 2013  further  
demonstrates an IRHP  wasnt  needed  in the first place. The basic  figures  were  the 
same. But at that point the bank  was discovered  to have been profiteering from the 
sale of these products.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Im sorry  to tell Mr G 
that Ive come to the same conclusions as the adjudicator, and for largely the same  reasons.
When it comes  to commercial lending the adjudicator is right to say that banks are allowed to 
set the terms on which  theyre prepared to offer lending.  Lending  is a matter for a banks 
legitimate commercial judgement which Im slow to interfere with. Thats the underlying issue  
here. 
S knew in 2009  the basis on which RBS was prepared to lend. It required an IRHP and the 
loan agreement makes  this clear. Its not unreasonable  to expect S, after considering  what  
would be in its best interest, to have looked  elsewhere for funding  if terms being offered by 
the bank were unsuitable. But after further  negotiations with the bank, it was agreed to 
reduce the proportion of the borrowing that needed to be covered by the IRHP.
Nevertheless I do understand  that at the heart of Ss case  is its belief that the bank abused 
its position for profit and therefore didnt exercise its commercial discretion legitimately. 
I accept Ss evidence that in support of the loan the bank did insist on various  guarantees 
being put in place and S did comply.  Rental income didnt seem to be in doubt  either.  Also S 
contributed over £200,000 towards the purchase  price of the five flats thereby further 
reducing the banks  overall risk. For these reasons, S feels the bank didnt need to insist  on 
yet further security by having an IRHP  in place as well. 
But while RBSs decisions might seem  to S to have been overly  cautious, its not part of my 
role to conclude that caution was unjustified. In other words, its not my role to place  myself  
in the banks position and then decide  whether I might have exercised less caution given the 
steps S had taken  to minimise the banks overall  risk. The bank is entitled to balance  its risk 
and take the steps it regards as necessary to mitigate those risks. 
 
did RBS have concerns  about the property  rental  sector at the time of the lending? 
S disputes this or at least doesnt think such concerns were  justified,  not least because the 
bank apparently provided lending facilities to the firm that built the flats.  But the evidence 
shows that the bank did have concerns. S might regard them  as unjustified but that doesnt 
of itself negate  the banks concerns. Im satisfied that at the time, RBS did regard the 
property rental sector  as problematic and Im persuaded its lending  offer to S was informed 
by that belief. 
Ref: DRN80502303did S have  enough time to look elsewhere  for funds?
The bank told S in August 2009 that hedging  would be a condition  of lending. The loan 
agreement was signed in December 2009.  I appreciate there would have been some 
momentum behind  Ss plans and to seek borrowing elsewhere would have put the company 
to some trouble.  But in my view S did have  enough time to look for other sources of funds if 
it didnt want to go ahead with the deal with RBS. 
 
2013 lending  decision 
I can understand Ss reasons  for concluding  that the renewal of its lending  in 2013 without 
the requirement of an IRHP is proof it wasnt ever needed. But I dont agree. The point at 
issue here is whether  the bank is entitled to make its own decision at the time of its 
agreement to lend.  If RBS took a more relaxed view about the level of its risk four years 
later, thats entirely a matter for the bank, and I dont think  it shows  the 2009 decision was 
unfair or unreasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8050230