K820x#14complaint
Miss H says The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss H applied for a mortgage with Co-op in 2003. At that time, PPI was added,  covering 
Miss H for disability and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Co-op had mis-sold the PPI. Miss H disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Miss Hs case.
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss H says she was unaware  that the PPI had been added. But Ive seen a copy  of her 
signed separate PPI application form. The form confirmed the level of cover to be added  and 
the monthly benefit amount. 
Overall, I think Miss H was aware  the PPI was optional  and was separate  to the mortgage,  
and that she chose to go ahead with it on that basis.
I dont think Co-op made a personal  recommendation  to Miss H regarding the PPI. So it 
didnt have to check that it was suitable for her. But it should  still have  given her clear, fair 
and not misleading information about  the PPI. I dont know  if it did that but, having looked at 
Miss Hs circumstances,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking it. 
Co-op hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy terms that applied  at the time. But, 
based on other versions of Co-ops  policy terms from before and after the sale, I find:
Miss H was likely  eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected by the main  exclusions to, 
or limits on, the policy.
Miss H was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy, and had family help, but 
the PPI would have paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months per claim.  It would 
offered a guaranteed  means of meeting her mortgage  payments if she couldnt work.  
With that in mind,  and given that the borrowing was secured against her home,  I 
believe shed have  seen  the PPI as providing  her with valuable  security.   
Theres no reason for me to believe Miss H would  have  considered the premium, at 
just over £6 a month, to be unaffordable.  And, given that the premiums were payable  
each month, the PPI could have been  cancelled at any time at no extra cost to her if 
she decided she no longer wanted  it.
Ref: DRN82228222Ive thought about everything Miss H has said, including that she already had life cover, but 
that doesnt change my mind. Her existing insurance would have paid a lump sum on her 
death, whereas  the PPI paid a monthly  benefit  to protect her mortgage payments if she 
couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment.  So the policies  covered  very different 
things.
Miss H says she wasnt able to claim on the policy when she needed  to in 2009. Although 
what happened then isnt directly relevant to what happened when she bought the PPI 
several years earlier, Ive taken it into account  in reaching my decision that the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Co-op  needs to give back Miss H some of the commission 
she paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance on this issue  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Miss Hs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008, they dont apply. So Co-op 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss H paid for the PPI she had with that 
mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8222822