K821x#15complaint
The complaint is about the suitability of advice Mr S received from Anthony  Feeney Financial 
Services (AFFS).  This was to transfer three existing personal pension policies into a new 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).  The funds  were then invested in a Store  First store 
pod investment.
background
Mr S met with the adviser and a record of his financial  circumstances recorded in the fact 
find document, dated 12 July 2013,  noted:
Mr S was 54, separated with grown  up children and in excellent  health. He was 
employed and earned £30,000 a year.
He was a member of his employers pension scheme to which he was personally 
contributing £220 a month and he expected to retire  at 65.
He held three frozen pension policies.
His attitude to risk was recorded as adventurous which meant  you prefer to invest  
in more specialist  stock-market linked investments, in return  for the potential  for 
increased capital  growth. Again, investment values will fluctuate according to market  
conditions, however, these fluctuations will be more  pronounced.
A hand  written note added Mr S is very aware of the risk involved moving  his 
pension, but feels  if the long term rewards are better its worth any risk.
In the section about investment knowledge and experience it noted Mr S has no knowledge 
about SIPPs or Investment Markets  and that he had a good work pension  and was in the 
process of buying  his house. His frozen pensions were not all his future financial wealth.
The fact find recorded he likes the idea of being able to get a lump sum as he turns 55 
soon, but its not his main priority. It was concluded Mr S wished to combine his three frozen 
pension and to tidy up. He was paying  into his employer pension  but other  than buying his 
home, he had no other financial  assets at that time.
The pension policies were  transferred  into a SIPP. The funds were then invested  in the Store  
First investment.
Mr S became aware  the transfer might not have been suitable.  His representative  
complained to AFFS. As no response had been received from AFFS the complaint was 
referred to us. However, I note the final response  was subsequently issued, by AFFSs 
representative. They did not uphold the complaint.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He concluded that it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
On 18 January  2013 the regulator  issued an alert about  firms  transferring pensions  
to SIPPs  without  assessing the suitability of the underlying  investment to be held in 
the SIPP. The alert specifically stated unregulated investments are diamonds, 
overseas property developments, store pods, forestry and film schemes, among 
other non-mainstream propositions.
The Store First investment was an unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS). The promotion of a UCIS is restricted under sections  21 and 238 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  relating to UCIS.
Ref: DRN84377562Mr S was not a sophisticated or experienced investor. The bulk of funds that were 
placed in his SIPP came from the transfer  values of another mainstream pension 
policy for a modest amount.
The risk rating was noted  but the adjudicator  did not agree there was any 
evidence to support  that conclusion from the fact find. No other  investments were  
noted. And the comment that Mr S understood the risk is contradicted by the 
subsequent note that he had no investment experience.
The SIPP was a designated investment. The advice  given  had to be suitable, 
taking account  the consumers knowledge  and experience, financial situation and 
investment objectives. COBS 9.2.2 required the adviser to know  their client so that 
they had a reasonable basis for believing the consumer would be able to bear any 
related investment risks, and understood the risks involved.
COBS required  an adviser to consider the suitability of the proposed  investment. 
The risks of the investments were important. The whole point of having the SIPP  
would have been so it could also hold these investments. It was not possible to 
assess if the consumer was able to bear the related investment risk without 
considering the risks of the proposed investment.
The adviser should have identified the risks from the readily available  description  of 
the fund that was available. They should have taken that risk into account when 
recommending the transfer of the existing personal pension  into the new SIPP, to 
invest in Store  First.
AFFS is being represented. The representatives  replied and provided counsels opinion  that 
Store First was not a UCIS. They said that AFFS had carried out proper due diligence and 
that the investment was in line with the consumer needs and circumstances.
AFFS changed their representative. They asked for a hearing. I considered that request, but 
did not think a hearing was necessary.  I did however ask our adjudicator to speak with Mr S 
about the events leading  up to the transfer  of his pensions into a SIPP.  I have listened to a 
recording of that call and also sent a recording to AFFS and their representatives. 
In summary,  Mr S explained:
He was first contacted  by phone and was asked if wanted to transfer  his pension to a 
SIPP. The first proposal was about buying land in Africa  and timber which  Mr S 
wasn't interested in. But they then sent him a proposal about store pods which  Mr S 
was interested  in. A man then visited him with paperwork. The man said he was from 
AFFS and that he wasn't a financial adviser. The man told him that, in his opinion, 
the investment  was a 'no brainer.
Mr S thought it was a good investment as he was guaranteed 8% return  for the first 
two years. It was insinuated he'd get the same sort of returns  every year. He wanted  
a greater return on his pension  pot.
He thought it would be higher risk than the 'usual' but because it was in the UK he 
thought it would be 'more sound'. He thought he was in investing  in the company 
rather than buying physical units.
The documentation  was then left with Mr S. He then received a number of calls 
asking if he'd made a decision.  When he said he had, they sent a courier to pick up 
the papers.
He then received  paperwork  from Berkeley Burke about the transfer. And the other 
paperwork he received  after this time was from Berkeley Burke.
If AFFS had told him not to invest in the store first pods, he 'probably wouldn't have' 
invested in them.  The man who came to see him said it was a 'no brainer' but Mr S 
wasn't an expert.
Mr S said he didn't receive  any payments for making the investment.
Ref: DRN84377563AFFSs representative asked for more  time to respond. I have not received any further 
response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
our jurisdiction
AFFS was giving advice  to start a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. We can therefore 
consider a complaint about the advice to start the SIPP. It does not matter whether the store 
pods are a UCIS or not. This is a complaint  that we can consider.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The advice had to 
take account of the relevant rules whether or not store pods were regulated. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that the firm had to obtain enough information 
about Mr Ss circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser was required to give suitable advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. 
The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about  the intended investment. I cannot see 
how suitable advice  can be given without thinking about that investment. Thats  the key 
message from the regulators alert issued in January 2013. 
AFFS knew that Mr S intended to invest in store pods. They should have considered 
whether that was suitable for him.
I havent seen  a copy of the suitability report. But it has been quoted in the final response.  I 
have also seen similar wording used in a number of other cases.  I think the passages quoted 
in the final response  are likely to be accurate.
AFFS says that the adviser did set out some risks of investing in store pods in his suitability 
report. These were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
scheme's assets brings  considerable  risk.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
Ref: DRN84377564The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that the investment  store  pods  were a high risk investment. They were not 
regulated whether or not they were  a UCIS. The investments were potentially  illiquid  and 
unsuitable for Mr S. I think if Mr S had been advised  not to invest  in store pods that he would 
have followed that advice.
I am satisfied that Mr S thought the store pod investment  would improve  the pension he 
would receive. I think if Mr S had been advised  not to transfer to the SIPP that he would 
have followed that advice. 
I think suitable advice  should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice had been 
given I do not see any reason  why Mr S would have  transferred to a SIPP. I think that given 
a realistic assessment  of his attitude to risk as balanced, or medium, that a standard 
personal pension  would  have been  suitable for his needs. I think the extra charges normally 
associated with a SIPP were not justified.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr S into to the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given 
suitable advice.  I think Mr S would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances  and objectives when he invested.
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  AFFS  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there  is a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Ss pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
I think its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension  
plan. So, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income when he takes the benefits. 
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax 
that would  otherwise  have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Ss expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. I think Mr S is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement.  The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr S would have  
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Ref: DRN84377565It is very likely that Mr S will have to maintain the SIPP  for a period of as the store 
pods cannot be sold, which  will prevent the SIPP from being closed. If the firm is 
unable to buy the store pods from the SIPP provider,  they should  pay Mr S five years  
worth of SIPP fees to compensate him for these  costs.  
Pay Mr S £250 for the distress caused by the loss to his pension  funds.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
payment 
AFFS should add interest  as set out above.  Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr S how much has been  taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The 
firm should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
AFFS may require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay the firm any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing money from the pension plan. AFFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Ref: DRN84377566Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Anthony  Feeney Financial Services must now calculate whether Mr S 
has suffered a loss. If there is a loss compensation should be paid as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8437756