K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about charges that were  unfairly  added to his loan account  and that 
Acenden Limited  didnt  do enough  to help him when he was in financial difficulties 
and suffering from stress.
background
In around July 2007 Mr F took out a loan for £7,500 with a term of ten years  with 
Southern Pacific Personal Loans  Limited (SPPL)  which was secured by a second 
charge on his property.
SPPL went into liquidation in May 2013  and was dissolved in June 2018. This service  
hasnt considered Mr Fs complaint against  SPPL because, even  if the complaint was 
upheld, it wouldnt be possible to enforce any award  against that company.
SPPL transferred the loan to another lender on about 5 November 2010 and the loan has 
been administered  on behalf of the new lender by Acenden Limited (Acenden) since 
then. The new lender fell within the jurisdiction of this service until 1 September  2015 so 
weve considered  Mr Fs complaint against that company up to that date. Ill deal with that 
complaint in a separate decision.
Acenden has been  within  the jurisdiction of this service at all relevant times. It has been 
carrying out the regulated activity of debt administration  since  the loan was transferred to 
the new lender.  While the new lender  was itself in our jurisdiction, weve considered  the 
complaint against  it. But weve been  able to consider  Mr Fs complaint against  Acenden  
since our jurisdiction over the new lender ended, so from 2 September 2015 onwards.  This 
decision addresses Mr Fs complaint  about Acenden.
Mr F started to miss payments from around November 2007 and SPPL got a suspended 
possession order against him in June  2008. By 2 September 2015 hed incurred 
significant arrears and charges and had an overall  balance on his account of over 
£18,500.
Mr F thinks  charges that have been added to his account since  2 September  2015  are 
unfair. He says Acenden failed to take into account  that he was in financial difficulties. 
And he says he was suffering from stress and anxiety due to his financial position.
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint against Acenden in part. He felt Acenden had 
treated Mr F fairly overall and the majority of the charges raised  by Acenden  were  fair and 
reasonable. But he thought that several charges had been raised unfairly. Mr F didnt 
accept our investigators view so I reviewed the complaint  afresh. I recently issued a 
provisional decision an extract  of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators view but for different reasons which  Ill explain.
Ref: DRN89504182When looking at the charges applied to Mr Fs Loan account from 2 September 2015 
onwards, I have  to think first about  whether  they were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the loan agreement. If they were, I then consider whether the charges  
were applied fairly in Mr Fs individual  circumstances.
Under the terms and conditions  of the loan agreement with the new lender, which  
Acenden was administering, various fees could  be charged in line with the tariffs  that 
applied from time to time.
They included the following, which were  added to Mr Fs account:
 An arrears management  fee (AMF)  when the contractual monthly payment 
wasnt made on time or there  were  outstanding  arrears
 A failed payment fee where a cheque, bank giro or direct  debit had been 
returned unpaid  by Mr Fs bank
 Legal fees
I think the fees charged to Mr Fs account  from 2 September 2015  were properly charged in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the loan agreement and tariffs that applied 
from time to time.
The relevant  rules say a lender must treat its customers  fairly when theyre  in arrears. To 
comply with these rules Id expect  a lender to find out what  the customers  financial 
circumstances are and to suggest some ways  of helping the customer  get back on track. If 
a customer was suffering  health issues Id expect a lender to take this into consideration.
And Id expect the customer to engage in a meaningful  way with the lender. For example, Id 
expect the borrower  to keep in contact  with the lender, provide information about his 
circumstances and what he can afford to pay, and make payments in line with any 
temporary arrangements he agrees with the lender.
Before September  2015 Mr F had had a poor payment  history.  Hed been  in significant 
difficulties when the new lender took over the loan. The new lender had found it difficult  to 
get in touch with Mr F. He hadnt always  cooperated  in providing details of his income  and 
expenditure. And Mr F had failed to keep up with payments in line with temporary  
payment arrangements  hed agreed with the new lender from time to time.
From 2 September  2015  Mr F was making more  regular payments and was in more 
frequent contact  with Acenden. He was taking steps  to manage his account  and making  
some additional  payments  to try to reduce his arrears. But he still missed  a number of 
payments when no payment arrangements were in place and Acenden  added  charges to 
his account as a result.
Mr F suggested to Acenden in around January 2017  that he didnt know  thered be a 
balance at the end of the term even if he paid off the arrears.  But I think he wouldve known 
long before then arrears  were building up and hed incurred charges if he didnt pay on time. 
He wouldve been  sent regular statements by SPPL,  the new lender and Acenden showing 
the balance on his account.  The charges were explained in the loan agreement and details 
of the charges tariffs  would  have been  sent to him from time to time.
Acenden took steps to enforce the suspended possession  order  against Mr F while it was 
discussing things with him. I understand Mr F will have been  concerned  about this and I can 
see he took legal advice. On balance, I think Acenden behaved reasonably  in taking this 
Ref: DRN89504183action even though Mr F was in more regular contact with it. Mr F was still missing 
payments and there was a very high level of the arrears. Proposals  Mr F made to pay didnt 
included the charges hed incurred over many  years or an initial  payment as Acenden  
wanted. It was uncertain if Mr F could make any proposals that it would agree to. And given 
the way Mr F had been managing his account in the past, its understandable Acenden  
wouldve had some doubts about Mr Fs commitment  and ability to pay.
Mr F says Acenden  failed  to take into account  the stress his financial difficulties were 
causing him. Theres no record of Mr F telling Acenden  about  this until in around the end of 
May 2017 just after the court had postponed  a decision about evicting him. I can 
understand this will have been  a particularly stressful time for Mr F given the chance he 
could lose his home. Acenden had been engaging  with Mr F earlier  and as part of the court  
process to see if it could  reach agreement with him about satisfactory payment 
arrangements to clear his arrears. It referred things to a specialist team when it knew  Mr F 
had health concerns. And Acenden agreed  to extend the term of Mr Fs loan until 2021 to 
allow him to pay off the arrears.
Acenden removed several of the charges it added to Mr Fs account including  some of the 
legal charges connected with the possession proceedings. I think  this was fair given the 
efforts Mr F was making  to come to an arrangement to clear the arrears.
Bearing all of the circumstances in mind I think Acenden  treated Mr F fairly  overall. But I 
agree with our investigator that there are a few further charges which,  on balance, it 
wasnt fair to add to Mr Fs account  and which Acenden has agreed to repay.  Those 
charges are:
 AMFs on 19 October,  8 November, 8 December 2016, 8 January,  and 8 February
2017 of £70. They were  all applied when  Mr F was actively  discussing with 
Acenden how he could pay off the arrears and when he was keeping up with his 
contractual monthly payments.
 AMFs on 8 March, 8 April and 8 June 2017  of £55 where Mr F had paid in full and 
on time or within a day or so in those months
 Failed payment  fees on 2 June 2017,  3 January 2018 and 16 January 2018 
where, respectively,  double the amount was paid a day later, payment was made 
again the same day and a direct debit was requested even though January 
2018s payment  had already been  made.
Finally, as Acendens  made clear, the arrangement currently in place  to pay off the arrears 
by 2021 will not clear the charges Mr F also owes. So I would urge him to speak to Acenden 
or to seek independent financial advice about  how he can pay those off too.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold the complaint  in part and direct  Acenden  
Limited to remove the following  charges  and any interest on those charges from Mr Fs 
account and recalculate the account  as if the charges had never been applied:
(1) AMFs of £70 each  applied on 19 October, 8 November, 8 December 2016, 8
Ref: DRN89504184January, and 8 February 2017;
(2) AMFs of £55 each  applied on 8 March, 8 April and 8 June  2017;  and
(3) Failed payment  fees of £13 each applied on 2 June 2017, 3 January 2018  and 16
January 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr F nor Acenden has commented on my provisional decision.  So theres no reason  
to change it. And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Fs complaint 
in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct Acenden Limited  to 
remove the following  charges and any interest  on those charges from Mr Fs account  and 
recalculate the account as if the charges had never been applied:
(1) AMFs of £70 each  applied on 19 October, 8 November, 8 December 2016, 8
January, and 8 February 2017;
(2) AMFs of £55 each  applied on 8 March, 8 April and 8 June  2017;  and
(3) Failed payment  fees of £13 each applied on 2 June 2017, 3 January 2018  and 16
January 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
 
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8950418