K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the time taken for Aviva  Insurance  Limited  to send him a replacement 
phone following a claim on his mobile  phone insurance policy.
background
Mr H made  a claim on his mobile  phone  insurance policy  following  damage  to the phone.  
When he first called,  Mr H asked  about  how long it would take for him to get a replacement  
phone. And when Aviva told him its replacement phones are delivered  the next working day, 
Mr H made  a complaint.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but felt that Aviva had treated Mr Hs reasonably.  
Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain  why below.
Mr H first called Aviva  in relation to this claim on 28 December 2018 and Ive listened  to a 
recording of this call. Mr H asks about  submitting a claim and asks about how long it would 
take for a replacement  phone to be sent to him. Aviva explains that its replacement  phones 
are delivered  the next working day but Mr H is unhappy with this as he says hes been told 
he would  get a replacement phone the same day.
The terms of Mr Hs policy say that replacement phones will be delivered  the next working 
day, following  acceptance of a claim and payment of any excess. So what Aviva told him 
was correct and in line with the terms of his policy.
I understand Mr H says he was told he would get a replacement phone  the same  day as a 
claim but, from what hes said, he was told this by a member of staff from the company who 
sold him the phone  and the policy, not by Aviva. And I can only look at the actions of Aviva  
as part of this complaint.
Mr H didnt make a claim during the phone call on 28 December 2018,  but he called back  the 
next day, 29 December 2018, and a claim was submitted. Aviva then arranged for the claims 
team to call Mr H on 2 January 2019 to assess the claim. And once the claims team had 
spoken to Mr H the claim was accepted and the delivery of a replacement phone  was 
arranged for 3 January 2019.
There was a delay  between the claim being  submitted on 29 December 2018 and the claims 
team calling Mr H on 2 January 2019  and, ideally, I think these  should  have taken place  on 
the same  day. But given  the time of year and that one of the days in between  was a bank 
holiday, I dont  think its unreasonable that Aviva  couldnt arrange  for the claims team  to call 
Mr H before it did.
Mr H has said it was around  4 weeks before he received his replacement  phone.  But Avivas 
records show the claim was submitted on 29 December 2018 and that delivery of the 
Ref: DRN85961762replacement phone was arranged for 3 January 2019.  So, as I explained above, I dont think 
there were any unreasonable delays in Avivas  handling of the claim.
Mr H has also said there were many more phone calls about  this claim and is unhappy with 
the way Aviva spoke  to him during the calls. Aviva has only been  able to send us a recording 
of the call of 28 December 2018  but I think the service Mr H received and the way he was 
spoken to was reasonable in that call. And Mr H hasnt been able to give specific dates of 
when these further calls took place or specific details about how the people  he spoke to 
were rude or unhelpful. So I dont think theres  enough evidence  for me to say the level of 
customer service  Aviva  gave him was unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8596176