K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the interest shes been charged on her credit card with 
TSB Bank plc. 
background
Miss M took out a credit card with TSB in 2015.  In 2016, the promotional 0% interest rate 
ended, meaning  interest was charged on the card. 
In 2018, Miss M complained to TSB  she said she was never  told that the interest rate 
could change  either when she opened  it, or when the rate did in fact change. 
Our investigator didnt  think TSB acted unfairly.  Because Miss M remained unhappy,  the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M says she wasnt told the interest rate would increase when  she applied for the credit  
card. TSB hasnt been  able to give us copies of her specific paperwork, given the time thats 
passed. But Ive seen some examples of TSBs promotional material and its terms and 
conditions  and these describe 0% interest  rate offers for a certain period of time.
I appreciate Miss M says she was told something different in branch  and I accept thats 
possible. But Ive only got Miss Ms recollection,  which understandably isnt very detailed 
given how long its been. I also cant ignore that it would be very unusual for a bank to offer a 
0% interest rate indefinitely. So, taking everything  into account, there isnt enough for me to 
conclude that TSB misled  Miss M when  she took out the card.  
Miss M also complains that TSB didnt notify  her before the promotional interest rate period 
ended. Ive seen copies  of Miss Ms statements  the one from February 2016 shows  the 
estimated amount of interest she would be charged  the following month. And I can see that 
from her March 2016 statement onwards, they all clearly showed  the interest charged and 
the interest rate. On top of these, there are annual statements,  showing the yearly interest 
that had been charged.  
So while I agree that TSB couldve also highlighted the date the promotional period would 
end, Im not persuaded it wouldve changed anything. Thats  because  theres a substantial 
amount of evidence over a long period of time that made it clear  that interest  was being 
charged. But Miss M didnt question this with TSB until two years later. 
It follows that Im not persuaded TSB misled Miss M about the interest on her credit  card  
so I wont be asking  it to compensate  her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Ref: DRN85210392Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8521039