K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy that NewDay  Ltd t/a Aqua increased his credit  limit on his credit  card 
account. He doesnt think they carried out the appropriate checks before  doing so and he 
thinks theyve acted  irresponsibly.  
background
Mr D opened a credit card account  with NewDay in January 2014 with a credit limit of £250. 
This credit limit was increased in May 2014 to £400,  in January 2016 to £800  and then in 
June 2016 to £1500.  
NewDay say theyve  acted fairly  and that their decision to increase the credit was based on 
information supplied  by Mr D at the point  of opening the account, along with information  held 
by Credit Reference Agencies and their own internal risk strategies. They  say Mr D met their 
acceptance criteria for borrowing. And that they carried out appropriate  checks. They also 
say that Mr Ds circumstances  werent  such that theyd had cause for any concern that he 
wasnt eligible for the credit limit increases. So Mr Ds complaint wasnt  upheld by them.
As Mr D remained dissatisfied, he referred  the case to our service.  An investigator has 
already looked  at this complaint. He felt NewDay had complied with their internal risk 
policies. But he also felt there may have been signs Mr D was struggling  financially and that 
this shouldve triggered NewDay to carry out further  checks. In light of this the investigator 
asked Mr D for further information  in order to try to determine what those further checks may 
have revealed. Despite various  requests  Mr D was unable to provide any further information. 
The investigator explained to Mr D that without  this information hed be unable  to say that 
NewDay should refund  any interest or charges to him. 
As this complaint  still remains unresolved,  the matter has now been passed to me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding their own internal risk strategies, NewDay has told our service  that their policy  is 
to exclude customers  for credit limit increase offers that are currently  over limit as well as 
where a customer has incurred an over limit fee for each of the 3 months prior to a potential 
credit limit increase. Having considered  all the evidence I think NewDay  did comply with their 
own internal policy.  
Having looked  at all the evidence I think it likely NewDay did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay  any credit in a 
sustainable way. I note that at the time of the increases Mr D had passed affordability and 
financial difficulties checks.  NewDay also checked for over indebtedness,  credit utilisation,  
arears, CCJs and defaults.  
Based on the information, I believe NewDay did make a fair lending decision bearing in mind 
what they knew about Mr Ds circumstances. 
However even if I was minded to think that the checks werent proportionate and reasonable, 
Mr D has been unable  to provide us with any evidence to show that he was unable  to 
Ref: DRN81463972sustainably repay  the credit limit increases. I can see the investigator has already asked Mr 
D for this evidence on numerous occasions. And hes clearly  explained  why he wanted  this 
information. 
In light of the above I too am unable to say that NewDay  need to take any further action in 
this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8146397