K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained that Insurance Factory Ltd didnt cancel his car insurance  policy  in
November 2016  when he sold his car back to the dealer.
background
Mr D bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Insurance Factory  in April 2016. In
November 2016  he sold his car back to the dealership he had a finance agreement with. 
Mr D said he called  Insurance Factory at the time and told it to cancel his policy.  But he 
doesnt have a record of the call.
In July 2017 Mr D noticed  that he was still paying a monthly premium for car insurance. So
he contacted Insurance  Factory. It said it didnt have  a record  of Mr D contacting it before.
It cancelled his policy in July 2017.  It said the insurer required proof Mr D had sold his car in
November 2016  in order to consider backdating  the cancellation.
On cancellation  Mr D owed a balance. In August 2017 Insurance Factory wrote to Mr D and
said if he didnt pay the balance he owed, it would pass the debt to a debt recovery agent.
In September  2017 Mr D provided a letter from the finance dealership  to confirm hed
returned the car to it in November 2016. But the insurer told Insurance  Factory this wasnt
enough. It wanted a document from the DVLA to show transfer of ownership.
Mr D wasnt able to provide the document due to an issue with the way the dealership
updated the DVLA. But the DVLA provided  a letter which Mr D passed  to Insurance  Factory
in November 2017. Insurance Factory discussed  the letter with the insurer,  but the insurer
didnt accept what the DVLA letter said. Insurance Factory told Mr D the insurer  wasnt
prepared to backdate the cancellation.
In October  2018 Mr D complained to Insurance Factory. It contacted  the insurer and passed
a copy of the letter Mr D sent it from the DVLA in November 2017.
The insurer  said the letter  wasnt sufficient to backdate the cancellation. But after reviewing
the issue, it changed its decision later that day. So in October  2018  the insurer  agreed to
accept the documents Mr D had provided and backdate the cancellation to November 2016.
Insurance Factory  and the insurer replied to Mr Ds complaint in October 2018. Insurance 
Factory said it dealt  with the issue fairly as it passed the information Mr D provided to the 
insurer.
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint against Insurance Factory.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ds complaint should  be upheld and made a number of
recommendations. Insurance Factory disagreed with the majority of the recommendations 
largely because  it believed the insurer was responsible for the things our adjudicator said
Insurance Factory  should put right.
Mr D accepted the adjudicators recommendations. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2019. I thought  Insurance Factory should do 
some things to put things  right. I thought  some  of the complaints Mr D raised were  issues  
that the insurer was responsible for dealing with. 
Ref: DRN84651702Insurance Factory  accepted my provisional  decision. Mr D hasnt replied. So the case has 
been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent received any new information to 
consider since my provisional  decision. So my final decision is along the same lines. I intend 
to uphold part of Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no evidence to show  that Mr D contacted  Insurance Factory before he called it on 26
July 2017. This is the date Insurance Factory  arranged  for the insurer  to cancel Mr Ds 
policy.
Between September and November 2017, Mr D provided letters  from the finance dealership
and the DVLA  to Insurance Factory. It passed  all but the last letter  to the insurer  but
according to Insurance Factorys notes, the insurer rejected them  as sufficient  proof to
backdate the cancellation.
From its notes,  it seems Insurance Factory contacted  the insurer in October 2018 and said it
couldnt see that it had passed  on the last letter Mr D had sent it from the DVLA.
In October  2018 the insurer initially reviewed the DVLA letter and maintained  its decision.  It
was only when the insurer considered Mr Ds complaint   later that day - that it changed its
decision and agreed to backdate the cancellation.
So I dont  think Insurance Factory  as the broker  acted unreasonably here. I think
Insurance Factory  forwarded the information Mr D provided to the insurer  from Mr D and vice
versa. Its the insurers decision as to whether it accepted the documents Mr D provided and
whether to backdate the cancellation date. Even if Insurance  Factory had forwarded the last
letter Mr D had sent it from the DVLA in November 2017 to the insurer,  I think the insurers
decision to reject it would have been the same. This was its initial  decision when it received
it in October 2018. The insurer  changed its decision when Mr D complained.
In November 2018 Insurance Factory provided  a refund of premiums  to Mr D following the
insurers decision. But it didnt refund  the charges it made for additional products and an
arrangement fee which came to £73. In total the refund  Mr D was owed was £187.18
(£114.18 initial refund + £73 additional  refund  due). But Insurance Factory only refunded
£114.18 in November 2018.
Our adjudicator thought Insurance Factory  should  pay interest on the £187.18 from 26 July
2017 to the date of the refund. Insurance Factory  disagreed. It said it was fair for it to pay
interest on the £73 from 10 October 2018.  This was the date the insurer changed its decision
and agreed to backdate the cancellation.  So this was the earliest  date it could have provided
the refund.  And for the same  reason,  Insurance Factory said it should only pay interest on
the £114.78 from 10 October  2018 to the date it refunded it to Mr D a month later.
I agree  with Insurance Factory.  As Ive said, the decision to backdate the cancellation of
Mr Ds policy  rested  with the insurer, not the broker Insurance Factory. And so I dont think
Insurance Factory  is responsible for paying interest  on the refund from 26 July 2017. 
Ref: DRN84651703But I think it should pay interest on the £73 it didnt include  in the original refund as this was 
its error.  I think  Insurance Factory should pay interest on this sum from 10 October  2018 to 
the date it pays  this to Mr D. And I think it should pay interest on the £114.78 from 10 
October 2018 to the date it refunded Mr D. But for any delay from the date Mr D provided  the 
relevant information  - to the date the insurer agreed  to accept it - is an issue  I think  for the 
insurer to deal with.
Because Mr Ds 2016 policy cancelled part way through the year, Insurance Factory  charged
a cancellation  fee and Mr D didnt receive a refund for the additional products he bought.
These charges  were clearly set out in the brokers Terms of Business. So I think  Insurance
Factory was entitled to deduct these sums from the refund  it paid Mr D.
Our adjudicator recommended  Insurance Factory  pay Mr D £150  compensation for the
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr D. Insurance Factory disagreed as it believes this is
redress that should be dealt with by the insurer.
Our adjudicator recommended  Insurance Factory  ensure there is no adverse  credit marker
against Mr Ds record. Insurance Factory  said there  shouldnt be any adverse marker as the
debt was withdrawn.
Insurance Factory  wrote  to Mr D in August 2017 and said he owed a balance on
cancellation. It said if Mr D didnt pay it in the next seven days  it would  pass the balance he
owed to a debt recovery agent.  Our adjudicator thought it was unfair for Insurance Factory  to
do this. But Insurance  Factory said that Mr D hadnt  paid the amount owed  which was
correct at the time  so it acted reasonably.
As the insurer didnt  agree to backdate the cancellation until October 2018, I cant  say that
Insurance Factorys  letter  dated 4 August 2017  or its decision  to pass  the balance  Mr D
owed then to a debt recovery agent was unreasonable at the time. But I think  its fair that
there should be no adverse credit marker  against Mr Ds record  as the insurer later agreed
to backdate the cancellation.
So I think this complaint should be upheld  in part. I think Insurance  Factory should pay
interest on the additional refund for £73 that it failed to include in the original refund. And it
should do the same for the refund it received form the insurer of £114.18  from 10 October
2018 to the date it paid it to Mr D. I think Insurance Factory should  provide a letter confirming
there is no adverse  credit marker against Mr Ds credit record  as a result  of its referral to the
debt recovery agent  as the debt has been withdrawn. But I dont think Insurance Factory
needs to pay Mr D compensation  for the actions of the insurer. Mr Ds complaint against the
insurer is being dealt  with separately.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint. I require Insurance Factory  Ltd to do 
the following:
Pay interest on the refund of £73 it owes Mr D from 10 October 2018 to the date 
it pays the refund.
Pay interest on the refund of £114.18  from 10 October 2018 to the date it paid 
Mr D.
Interest should  be calculated at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
of refund to the date of payment.
Ref: DRN84651704Provide Mr D with a letter confirming  there  is no adverse credit marker  against his 
credit record  as a result of its referral  to a debt recovery  agent  as the debt has 
been withdrawn.
Insurance Factory  must pay the interest within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mr D 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Insurance  Factory considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr D a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465170