K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint is mainly  that Citation Capital Management Limited (Citation)  mismanaged  
his Interactive Brokers  (IB) trading account (the account). Citation  disputes  the complaint.
background
In summary,  Mr Fs complaint issues and Citations responses are mainly as follows:
Mr Fs complaint is based on his arrangement  with Citation around August 2017 for 
the discretionary management of his account  (trading foreign  exchange  (forex)). 
Citation stresses that he retained parallel access to and control  of the account  
throughout the arrangement.  It also says Mr Fs direct self-trading experience and 
many years of professional experience in the international investment banking  sector, 
at a senior level, is further relevant  context.  The trading/management was performed  
by an individual  investment manager  (the manager), under Citations responsibility, 
and Citation says he and Mr F were known  to each-other personally and 
professionally for many years previously. Mr Fs underlying argument is that Citation  
did not properly  monitor the manager  and that it is ultimately  responsible for his 
wrongdoings.
Mr F says the manager breached agreed  stop-loss and risk management control 
settings and his guarantee to limit trading losses in the account to 20%;  that when his 
trading breached the 20% loss mark he evaded responsibility (in cross 
correspondence with him between 11 and 17  May 2018);  that he was instructed 
(between 10 and 11 May 2018)  to close open  positions but failed  to do so; and that 
the arrangement  was thereafter terminated (by 17 May 2018) for these reasons and 
because the manager  persisted in being evasive. Citation says there is no written 
evidence of any such agreement(s) and no recollection, on its part, in the same 
respect; that there  is also no evidence of a guarantee  to limit losses to 20%; that Mr 
F never raised these allegations when the management arrangement was active; that 
he had access to the account  and would have seen the alleged settings were not in 
place, and that losses of more than 20% of the account occurred on a number of 
occasions, yet he never complained; and that he never complained because the 
alleged settings were  never agreed  and the alleged guarantee was never given.
Mr F says Citations  lack of control over the manager meant he was able to breach 
his trading orders (to close  open positions in May 2018) and to over leverage  his 
account without  being monitored.  Citation says he never  brought these  alleged  
issues to its attention when the management arrangement was active; that, other 
than his complaint,  it has never received a complaint about the manager; that the 
account was operated  within  its leverage limits; and that trading in the account was 
often leveraged, Mr F was aware of this and never  complained at the time.
Mr F says Citation  did not disclose to him that management of the account would be 
wholly delegated  to the manager and that he was not regulated. Citation says Mr F 
knew the manager personally and professionally  for many  years prior to the 
management arrangement;  that he knew the manager was not regulated; and that he 
knew this was arguably irrelevant, given that IB had regulatory responsibility  for the 
account and Citation, as a firm, had regulatory  responsibility for the management  
arrangement. Citation also says Mr F was fully aware that the manager, alone, 
Ref: DRN87495572managed the account and that this is illustrated by him maintaining contact only with 
the manager (and no-one else in Citation)  throughout  the arrangement.
Mr F says Citation  mishandled his complaint  and did not properly engage with him. 
Citation says it held a meeting with him in July 2018, after he terminated  the 
arrangement (around  May 2018); that during the meeting he said his complaint was 
against the manager (not Citation);  and that it has engaged properly with him, in 
relation to his complaint, at all relevant times.
Mr F says Citation  misappropriated  $3,000  from his account and returned it only 
because he threatened to press a charge for fraud. Citation says the money was a 
performance fee that it was entitled  to and that was accurately  calculated; and that it 
refunded the money to Mr F only as a gesture of goodwill and in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.
One of our investigators  gave the following main  views on the complaint:
He was not persuaded that Mr F was unaware of the components of the 
management arrangement with Citation   that is, based on the manager  undertaking 
the relevant management  role. He referred to the contents of the agreement  that was 
signed, which described this aspect of the arrangement, and to the arrangement 
continuing over time without a complaint from Mr F about the manager having  access  
to the account.
He was not persuaded by Mr Fs point  about  the manager being  unregulated, given 
that the arrangement was between him and Citation  as Citation  was regulated  and 
was responsible for the managers role in the arrangement.
He noted that Mr Fs dissatisfaction with Citations handling of his complaint is not a 
matter this service would normally address in isolation; and that, in any case,  the 
$3,000 goodwill payment it gave  him is more  than this service  would generally 
recommend as compensation for trouble and upset caused to a complainant.
In terms of the overall allegation about guaranteed  risk/loss control,  he did not 
consider that evidence  especially a call recording that Mr F relies  upon in this 
respect  supported  it. He also took the view that such  an important guarantee would 
normally have been confirmed in writing and there is no such written confirmation  in 
Mr Fs case. On balance, he was not persuaded that any such  guarantee was given.
He said evidence supports Mr Fs claim that the manager  failed  to close positions  
upon his instructions on 11 May 2018 and that Mr F thereafter had to close the 
positions himself, given the managers  inaction.  He was not persuaded by Citations 
argument that Mr F had access  to and control over the account throughout the 
relevant period  so he would have  seen that the positions  had not been  closed and 
he could have closed  them himself at any earlier time. He concluded that it was 
reasonable for Mr F to expect the manager to follow and execute his instruction to 
close the positions, given that this was part of the managers role in the management 
arrangement with Citation. He concluded that Mr F should receive redress on this 
issue only, based on any detrimental  difference between the value(s)  of the positions 
(on 11 May 2018) that should have been  closed  on 11 May 2018  and their value(s)  
when they were closed on 17 May 2018.
Ref: DRN87495573Mr F did not agree with all the investigators  finding   for example, he maintained  that the 
$3,000 payment was recovery of a misappropriation, not a goodwill payment   but said he 
would accept the outcome in the spirit  of drawing  a conclusion to his complaint. He also 
provided account statement evidence to substantiate the calculation of compensation for the 
issue upheld  by the investigator. Citation initially concluded a calculation  (which differed from 
Mr Fs) in this respect and then said it could only afford to pay a fraction of the result. 
This compromise was put to Mr F and was rejected by him. He counter proposed an 
arrangement in which Citation satisfied the full compensation amount by instalments. This 
was put to Citation.  
Citation then argued that there is evidence to show that it bears no responsibility for the 
delay in closing  the positions between 11 and 17 May 2018 so it should  not have to pay Mr F 
any compensation. It argued  that the manager  did not receive  Mr Fs instruction to close  the 
positions; that his text messages to the manager on 11, 14, 15, 16 and 17 May 2018 in this 
respect were  not received  because the manager  lacked mobile phone reception;  that Mr F 
ought reasonably  to have confirmed the instruction  in writing  by email to the manager  and/or 
to Citation, but did not do so; and that Mr F also ought reasonably to have mitigated the 
matter by closing  the positions himself when he saw they had not been closed. In this 
context, it rejected Mr Fs counter proposal  and retained its initial  proposal  to pay only a 
fraction of the compensation amount, as full and final settlement of the complaint.
Mr F asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as those  expressed by the investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
I do not consider  that the matter of Mr F receiving $3,000  from Citation requires treatment. I 
acknowledge that both parties  differ on the meaning  of the payment  Mr F says it was 
recovery of money from Citation that rightfully belonged to him and Citation  says it was a 
goodwill payment. However, any (or the) misappropriation alleged by Mr F in this respect  
has arguably been resolved by his receipt  of the payment. I do not suggest that any such 
misappropriation took place. I appreciate that Citation  disputes this and I make no findings 
on the matter. 
The point is that Mr Fs allegation  cannot  reasonably  be a live issue given that he has 
received the precise amount of money  he alleges to have been  wrongfully taken  from him. 
Furthermore, Citation accepts that it omitted to obtain  Mr Fs signature and agreement to the 
settlement that it says the payment was for. It says it made the payment before doing  this. In 
any case, there is no settlement agreement that calls into question  this services treatment of 
the complaint.
I note a more recent explanation from Mr F in which he clarified the complaint about 
disclosure of the managers role in the arrangement with Citation. It appears  that he does not 
quite deny awareness of the managers role and that his dissatisfaction  is more about  the 
view that Citation left him unmonitored. 
In this regard, I share the investigators  observation that it is implausible Mr F was unaware 
of the managers  sole undertaking  of the trading  and management  in the account. In addition  
Ref: DRN87495574to the terms of the agreement mentioned by the investigator, there  is ample evidence  of 
cross correspondence between Mr F and the manager with regards to management of the 
account. Indeed, such  evidence from May 2018 in key to Mr Fs allegation that the manager 
breached his instruction to close positions. In view of Mr Fs clarification  this no longer 
appears to be a live issue  but, for the sake of completeness, I conclude  that Mr F was not 
uninformed about  or unaware that the manager had sole day to day responsibility for the 
account.
I understand Mr Fs concern about  Citations monitoring of the manager, however this 
appears to be a general comment to support the specific complaint issues. His argument is 
essentially that the manager had the opportunity to commit the wrongdoings he has alleged  
because Citation did not monitor him (or did not monitor him properly). 
The main  alleged wrongdoing  is about  risk/loss control  in the account. Mr F says stop loss 
settings were agreed with the manager, as was a maximum 20% capacity  for loss in the 
account. He has also mentioned concerns about  trades being  over leveraged.  I consider  that 
Mr Fs submissions to this service have,  overall, appeared to be sincere and it is possible 
that he believed  such agreements had been  reached with the manager. 
However, Citation appears to have made  a valid point  that Mr F only or mainly  liaised with 
the manager throughout the arrangement.  The balance of available evidence supports  this. I 
have not seen any documentation,  or reference to contact, in which terms for risk/loss 
control were  discussed or agreed  between Mr F and Citation. As the investigator noted,  such  
an important subject  ought reasonably to have been  agreed on record  between the parties, 
but there is no evidence  of such agreement.
If Mr F discussed  or agreed such terms directly with the manager, formal  record  of this also 
ought to have been created  but none appears  to exist. Arguably, any such record ought to 
have been shared with Citation (as the regulated firm responsible  for the discretionary 
management service) for its input and approval/agreement. This did not happen. The 
manager denies any such agreement. I have considered the text messages and telephone 
call recording  that Mr F relies upon and, from that, whilst he expresses his beliefs about 
having specific risk/loss control  agreements in place, the manager does not quite concede or 
agree with those  beliefs.  
Overall, I do not consider  that Mr F has enough evidence  to establish, on balance, that he 
reached a risk/loss  control agreement(s) with the manager. Even if he did reach such an 
agreement(s), I have  not seen  evidence  that Citation was aware and/or party to it. It needed 
to have been given that it was responsible for the discretionary management arrangement  
and it is necessary to establish that it was aware  of and party  to such an agreement if it is to 
be held responsible for the breach Mr F now alleges. 
This finding extends to Mr Fs allegation  about  trading in the account being over leveraged   
which I have considered in the wider context of risk/loss control. On balance, I do not 
consider that leverage limits were  formally, on record, agreed with the manager or with 
Citation. It is also noteworthy that the arrangement appears to have been  knowingly (to both 
parties) based on a high risk leveraged forex trading venture.
I agree  with the investigators reasoning with regards to Mr Fs instruction to close positions 
on 11 May 2018 and I am not persuaded  by Citations  counter arguments. Mr F exchanged 
text messages with the manager between  10 and 17 May 2018  and his instruction to close  
positions was given (and repeated) within those messages. 
Ref: DRN87495575The exchange essentially  shows complaints by Mr F about the state of the account and 
about the risk/loss control he believed should have been applied;  responses from the 
manager that broadly conveyed the view that Mr F was overreacting to the situation;  Mr Fs 
rejection of any suggestion that he was overreacting; Mr F instructing closure of the positions 
and, in the alternative, giving the manager  the option to keep them  open if he expressly 
undertook to personally cover losses; the manager not giving such  an undertaking; Mr F 
repeating his instruction to close the positions; and then the manager  showing awareness 
that the positions had been closed by Mr F.
I consider that the above serves as sufficient evidence. In terms of conveying  trading related 
instructions for the account  I am not persuaded by Citations argument  that Mr F should at 
least have emailed the manager  and/or Citation.  The text messages were  enough,  and the 
manager engaged with them in a manner that shows he was accustomed  to instructions 
through such messages. There is no evidence that he insisted upon emailed instructions (to 
him or Citation).
I do not accept Citations argument  that the manager did not receive Mr Fs instruction. He 
did not expressly agree or disagree  with the instruction but in the context  of the ongoing 
exchange of text messages between the above dates I am satisfied that he received Mr Fs 
text messages and responded  to some of them. In the same context, and on balance, it can 
also be concluded that he received the repeated instruction to close the positions and that it 
was reasonable  for Mr F to expect  him to do so  or, at least,  to respond with any counter 
suggestion about the relevant positions, given that they had been  subject to ongoing 
discussion.
For the above reasons, I do not agree that Mr F should have closed the positions  himself 
any earlier than he did. He waited  over a reasonable period for a reaction from the manager  
and by 17 May 2018, in the absence  of such reaction, he mitigated the matter by closing the 
positions.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr F as close as I can to the position he would 
probably now be in if the manager had executed his instruction to close the positions  in the 
account. 
Had he done so, the positions  should have been closed by the close of 11 May 2018  
bearing in mind that Mr F appears  to have initiated the instruction between 10 and 11 May 
2018. Instead, he did not follow the instruction and did not follow  Mr Fs subsequent 
reminders of the instruction. Mr F then closed the positions on 17 May 2018.  
Fair compensation to Mr F is the difference, if negative, between the total value that would 
have been generated  if the positions were closed on 11 May 2018 and the total value 
generated when  they were closed on 17 May 2018.
what must  Citation do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Citation must calculate  the total value of the positions that Mr F 
instructed to be closed  on 11 May 2018;  it must calculate their total value at the close  of this 
date (fair value); it must then confirm/calculate the total value  that was generated when  the 
positions were closed by Mr F on 17 May 2018 (actual value); if the actual value is less 
Ref: DRN87495576than the fair value  Citation must  pay Mr F the difference as compensation; Citation must also 
pay interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this 
decision to the date of settlement (if the compensation is not paid within  28 days of Citation  
being notified of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision).
The interest award is to compensate Mr F for being deprived of the compensation if Citation 
delays its settlement beyond 28 days of the aforementioned notification.  
Mr F should provide  Citation with all relevant  and required account information  for the 
purpose of calculating the compensation.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Fs complaint only in relation to Citation Capital 
Management Limiteds responsibility for the managers  failure  to follow  his instructions to 
close positions on 11 May 2018.  I order  Citation  Capital  Management  Limited to pay him 
compensation as stated  above and to give him a calculation of the compensation in a clear 
and simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr F to accept  or reject  my decision before 3 September 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8749557