K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  gave him incorrect information about  his 
eligibility for the Recommend a Friend (RAF) scheme. He says this meant he lost out on 
interest from his existing bank account when he switched his account to Nationwide.
background
Mr M contacted Nationwide about the RAF scheme to check  whether he would be eligible if 
he switched more than one account. He spoke to Nationwide representatives in branch and 
over the phone. He was told he could get up to a maximum of £500 in a tax year from the 
RAF scheme and that he could get more than one payment if he switched several accounts. 
So Mr M switched his accounts. But he was later told he wasnt  eligible for the payments 
because hed already received a payment in 2015  when he switched a previous account  to 
Nationwide.
Mr M complained to Nationwide about this and asked for reimbursement of the interest  hed 
lost on his previous  account. Nationwide apologised for giving Mr M incorrect  information 
about the scheme and offered him £50 as compensation. Mr M didnt think  that was enough 
so he came to this service. Our adjudicator didnt think Nationwide  should compensate Mr M 
for any losses resulting  from switching  accounts,  but he thought  Nationwide  should pay Mr M 
£100 as compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect  information.  
Nationwide and Mr M both disagreed with his opinion and requested review by an 
ombudsman. Because  I took a different view, I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 
2019 indicating  that I thought Nationwide had done  enough to resolve  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken account of Mr Ms 
response to my provisional  decision. Nationwides accepted it gave Mr M incorrect 
information about his eligibility  for the RAF scheme so the only issue  I need  to consider is 
what compensation is fair and reasonable.
Mr M went to great lengths  to check whether hed be eligible for the scheme  and Ive read 
his further submissions in response to my provisional decision. I understand he made  a 
similar complaint when  he found  he wasnt eligible in 2016 because  hed received a payment 
when recommended in 2015. So he knew there  could be problems with his eligibility. But he 
didnt tell the Nationwide representative about  his previous experience so she wasnt  aware 
of this possible problem.
Because hed switched  before, Mr M had seen the RAF terms and conditions.  Clause  11 
states that:
The recommended friend is entitled to only one payment even if they switch  more than one
account to us or if more than one recommender recommends  them. If the recommended
friend has received  a payment under  any other Nationwide  Recommend  a Friend  offer, then
they are not eligible  to receive a payment under this offer.
While the representative  made a mistake,  she did suggest Mr M should check with the 
switching team if he had concerns. I wouldnt expect her to go through  all the terms and 
conditions of switching  at this point.
Ref: DRN89328962Nationwide offered £50 as compensation  for the incorrect information. I understand its 
disappointing for Mr M not to be eligible for the RAF payments having gone to so much 
trouble to get answers from Nationwide. But to put things right,  Nationwide needs to 
compensate him for the trouble caused by its mistake, not put him in the position he 
wouldve been in if the information   was correct.
 Ive taken account of his submissions about  the extensive queries he made. And I know he 
feels hes lost out because he switched his accounts. But Ive weighed  up all the 
circumstances, including  the fact that hed had a similar experience two years earlier and 
was aware of the terms and conditions but didnt explain this to the representative  when 
asking for clarification. Taking all this into account, I think Nationwides  offer of £50 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused was fair and reasonable. So I dont think 
Nationwide needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932896