K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund some disputed  transactions.  He  says 
these were made by his ex-partner and were not authorised  and he thinks  Barclays should 
have alerted him to them.
background
Mr E says between December 2016 and February  2018, his ex-partner (S) carried  out 
transactions on his account which he did not authorise.   She made some over the counter 
withdrawals and also made online transfers from his account into her own.
Mr E says he had allowed  S to use his card and PIN as she worked in a supermarket and it 
was easier that way.  He had been  in a relationship with her for six years and thought she 
was trustworthy.  He said he would check his account once  in a year.
Mr E also says that he did not set up online banking on his account  and when  he found out S 
had done this, he changed all the security information.
Finally, Mr E says that the activity during this period changed so much from previous activity  
that Barclays should have picked up on it and alerted him.  He  could have blocked the 
transactions that way.
Barclays did not uphold  his complaint.  In its final response to Mr E, it said he had confirmed 
S had his card and PIN and had set up online banking.  It said this was not a fraud claim  
but rather a civil dispute between Mr E and S.
So, Mr E brought  his complaint to this service where our investigator  looked into matters  for 
him.  He re-iterated  his argument  that Barclays should have picked up on the unusual  
activity.
But our investigator did not think she could ask Barclays to do any more.  She looked at 
statements for Mr Es accounts  as far back as 2011  and said she hadnt  seen  any material  
change in activity.   She  also explained that the evidence showed Mr E was using the 
account for genuine  spending during this time and she questioned why he would not have 
looked at his statements to ensure he had sufficient money  in his account.  She also noted a 
payment to HMRC for Mr Es self-assessment  tax returns  and queried  how that might have 
been made if he had no knowledge he had online banking  set up.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators'  rules, guidance and standards,
codes of practice  and,  where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
Ref: DRN89545242and withdrawals which a customer authorises  it to make.  This is in accordance  with the 
Payment Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers  account.  I have 
taken this into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
There may be some transactions on the account  which were not physically carried out by Mr 
E  but he acknowledges that he had previously  given  S his card and PIN.  So, if he did give 
S authority to use his account and S used  these as an extension  of his authority, then 
Barclays is entitled to treat the activity as being  authorised.
With regards the unusual activity there are circumstances,  irrespective of the payment 
channel used, where a bank should,  in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional  
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment.   In some cases it should 
decline to make a payment altogether  to help protect customers  from the possibility of 
financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr E when these payments debited his account or whether it should  have  done  more
than it did.
Im not persuaded it could have done  more because  like the investigator  I dont agree 
that there  was a noticeable change in the activity on Mr Es account.  And I remind  myself 
that the starting point here is that Barclays is expected to make the payments which its 
customer authorises it to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8954524