K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (Co-op), trading as Britannia  
Building Society, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a 
mortgage.
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs D took out a joint mortgage  with Nationwide. At the same time they 
bought a joint cover PPI policy  paid for by a monthly premium.
Our adjudicator thought that the policy had been  mis-sold. This was because  he didnt think 
that Mrs D met the eligibility requirements for the policy and so wasnt able to make a 
successful claim  on it. Before the complaint came to this service, Co-op had already offered 
to repay  that part of the PPI premiums  paid which related to Mrs Ds cover from the date 
shed made  an unsuccessful claim. But following the adjudicators assessment, Co-op  
offered to repay  this part of the premiums paid for the policy since its start date.  
The adjudicator thought  that this revised  offer by Co-op was fair. But Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Mr and Mrs D say that at the meeting with Co-op  they felt pushed into taking  PPI and were 
given the impression it would help their mortgage application. Theres  no record  of what  was 
said to them at this meeting  and Mr and Mrs D themselves  dont seem  to have a particularly 
good recollection of it either. This isnt that surprising given how long ago the meeting took 
place. But I dont think that Ive seen enough  to persuade me that its more  likely than not 
that Co-op wrongly misled them into thinking they had to take out the policy to get their 
mortgage.
Co-op has provided a copy  of the separate PPI application form which was completed and 
signed by Mr and Mrs D at the time. And I think that it would have been clear from this and 
the other paperwork they received that the PPI was optional. So I think  its most likely that 
they actively decided  to take out the cover,  knowing they had a choice. But I can understand 
why they may not remember this now.
Co-op recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs D, so it needed to ensure that it was 
suitable for them, given their circumstances at the time. Co-op has already accepted  that the 
policy wasnt suitable for Mrs D so I dont need  to consider this aspect of its suitability any 
further. But Co-op says the policy provided suitable cover for Mr D. And given what I know of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think the cover  the policy  gave Mr D did still make  it suitable 
for him. I say this because:
Mr D appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN82581552Mr D says he was eligible for sick pay from his employer. But this policy  would have paid 
out in addition to this and, potentially, for much longer. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment and one where Mr and Mrs Ds home  could have  been  at risk if they hadnt 
been able to make the monthly  repayments.  
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  wanted  to buy a policy  that only covered  Mr D. But 
Mr D was easily the highest earner of the two at the time, so I think they would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave them if Mr D wasnt  able to work because  of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think they would  still have wanted,  and been  
willing to pay for, this part of the policys cover, even if theyd  known they werent eligible 
for a joint policy  covering  them  both.
Ive no reason to think the premium they paid for the policy was unaffordable  for 
Mr and Mrs D. And as this was a monthly premium, they could have cancelled it if it no 
longer met their needs.
Co-op also needed to give Mr and Mrs D enough information about the PPI policy for them 
to decide if they wanted  it. I think the information it gave them was probably not as good  as it 
could have been. But for much the same  reasons that I think the part of the policy  that 
covered Mr D was suitable  for them, I dont think better information would have changed 
their minds  about buying this part of the policy.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs D have  lost out by paying for that part of their PPI policys  
premiums which gave  them cover  if Mr D wasnt able to work because  of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. I think this part gave them  useful cover  at an affordable price. It 
follows from what Ive said that I think Co-ops revised offer to refund  only that part of the 
policys premiums which related to cover  for Mrs D is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  this complaint against 
The Co-operative Bank Plc in part. 
I understand that the compensation The Co-operative Bank Plc has offered Mr and Mrs D 
has not yet been paid to them.  So The Co-operative  Bank Plc should now update its offer 
and pay back that part of Mr and Mrs Ds monthly  premiums that related  to Mrs Ds cover 
under the policy,  together with 8% simple interest  until the date this payment is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8258155