K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains about the way The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB)  have  administered  his 
mortgage account. Hes also complaining  they havent given fair consideration to his 
proposals to clear the arrears on the mortgage.  
background
Mr V has an interest only mortgage  with TMB. Due to financial difficulties and ill health, the 
mortgage fell into arrears. These were capitalised in 2014. But since  then, arrears have built 
up again, as due to Mr Vs health,  hes been unable to work for some  years now.  
Due to the arrears position Mr V put the house up for sale in 2015.  And whilst it was on the 
market until late 2016, he was unable to achieve  a sale. Since then, TMB have agreed 
payment arrangements  on the mortgage. And whilst the contractual  monthly payment (CMP) 
was being met most months,  no contributions  were  being made towards the arrears balance. 
In August  2018,  TMB wrote to Mr V to explain the interest rate on his mortgage  was 
changing, and his CMP would be increasing  as a result. His new CMP would  be £3765.32 
from September, although the existing arrangement of £3132.58 would continue.
Mr V complained that the increase to the CMP in September was disproportionate  to the 
increase in the interest rate (0.25%). TMB sent Mr V their final response  which  explained 
that the increase to the CMP  was greater than the rate change, as significant arrears  had 
accrued on the mortgage since the CMP was last calculated. So up until that point, Mr V had 
not been paying interest on those arrears.  TMB confirmed that the mortgage balance  at the 
time was £872,994.79, which included an arrears balance  of £97,617.08.  The letter invited 
Mr V to call TMB to discuss whether it would be possible to capitalise these arrears, and 
apply for a lower  interest rate.
Mr V wrote to TMB in November 2018 explaining  his proposals to redeem both the arrears 
and the mortgage balance  and asked for a meeting to discuss  a way forward.  In the 
meantime, TMB wrote to Mr V to say they would be starting legal action if the arrears  
continued to go unpaid.
TMB wrote to Mr V in December 2018 explaining  they could not consider his proposals  until 
they assessed his overall  financial position.  The letter also explained that whilst the new 
CMP was £3,765.32, Mr V would  need  to pay £5,631.03 each month if he was to clear  the 
arrears by the end of the term. They said he would need to pay this higher amount  each  
month in order to stop litigation.
Mr V continued to write to TMB asking  them  to consider his proposal. In March  2019, he told 
them that he wanted to split the title on the land so that part of the land could be sold.  He 
said hed consulted auction houses  and estate agents and expected the sale to raise 
£300,000 which would  clear the arrears and reduce the mortgage balance. He wanted 
TMBs permission  to go ahead with this plan. TMB instructed solicitors, who wrote  to Mr V in 
April 2019 stating theyd  issued court proceedings for the possession of the property. 
Mr V brought his complaint to our service.  He complained overall  about  how TMB had 
treated him, but in summary he was unhappy that:
the CMP had increased by around  20% when the increase to the interest rate was 
only 0.25%; 
Ref: DRN80765782TMB had not considered his proposals  and were pursuing legal action to recover the 
arrears prematurely; 
Hed had difficulties  communicating  with TMB as theyd not been responding to him 
or his appointed  representatives.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that he didnt think TMB had unfairly 
increased Mr Vs CMP. He did however think TMB should have  given Mr Vs proposals to 
clear the arrears more  consideration than they did. As a result, he thought  they started legal  
action sooner than they should have done. He asked TMB to allow Mr V three  months to 
obtain up to date valuations of the land, and to discuss the proposal with them  before taking 
any further action.  He also recommended TMB refund the legal fees incurred as a result of 
the legal  action they took to recover the arrears, and pay Mr V £500 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
TMB agreed to the investigators  opinion. They said they would  put a hold on Mr Vs 
mortgage account for three months to allow him to go through an application for the sale of 
part of the land. They said its not guaranteed  this will be accepted, and the sale price of the 
land must  be enough  to cover the arrears,  as well as the remaining security covering the 
outstanding balance of the mortgage. They said Mr V will still need to ensure he can 
maintain the CMP  each  month even if the proposal  is accepted. 
TMB also agreed to refund solicitors fees totalling  £1,599, as well as pay Mr V £500 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr V didnt accept the investigators opinion. He has asked that TMB pay him £52,714.48 for 
the financial loss suffered  as a result of not accepting his proposal made in 2018.  He also 
wants a payment of £54,000 for the distress and inconvenience  TMB  have caused him. Hes 
also asked that they switch  his mortgage to the lowest  interest  rate available within the 
banking group, which hes said is 1.1%.  He said this would make the mortgage affordable for 
him until the end of the term in 2023.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, so the complaint has now been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to say that Im sorry to hear about Mr Vs poor health.  I understand his condition 
has worsened since he raised his concerns to TMB  in 2018,  and I can appreciate how 
difficult this would have  made things for him and his family.
Both parties  have provided a considerable amount of information  and evidence  in relation to 
this complaint. I want to assure them that Ive reviewed  and considered everything theyve 
sent us before reaching this decision, although I may not refer to everything  theyve said. I 
will focus on the matters  I feel are material to the outcome here.
The increase  in CMP in 2018  
Mr V is concerned that TMB have acted  in breach of guidance  issued by the regulator   The 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) when increasing his CMP. Hes concerned that theyve 
Ref: DRN80765783automatically capitalised  his arrears on his mortgage, and as a result  feels this means  the 
arrears should be extinguished.  
I can understand why Mr V was confused about whats happened  here,  as TMBs initial  
communication about the increase wasnt clear. They explained the interest rate had 
increased by 0.25%  so the payment was increasing.  But Mr V is right when he says the 
monthly payment  has increased by much  more than this amount.
TMB have since explained that the reason for the larger increase is due to the fact that the 
balance has increased  since  the CMP was last recalculated in 2014. Because of this, 
additional interest has accrued in this time  which wasnt  being  paid by the previous CMP. 
This interest  has now been included following the re-calculation which  was prompted by the 
rate change, which is why the CMP has increased  by more than 0.25%.
Ive looked at the evidence TMB have provided to show and explain this increase, and Im 
satisfied that they havent automatically capitalised the arrears on Mr Vs mortgage. The 
arrears balance would remain outstanding  if Mr V were only to pay the new CMP, and 
theyve explained  how much Mr V would  have to pay TMB each month  in order to clear the 
arrears by the end of the term, which was over £5,000. As a result,  I dont think  the arrears  
have been extinguished as Mr V claims.  I appreciate Mr V is currently  seeking  legal advice  
on this matter which hed like us to consider. But Im satisfied I have enough information to 
determine that TMB have  not automatically  capitalised Mr Vs arrears without that.
Its unfortunate that the CMP wasnt recalculated at some point in between  2014 and 2018, 
during which  time the arrears had grown  considerably. This would have prevented such  a 
large increase in one month  as it would have increased more  gradually during that time. But 
that doesnt make the 2018  calculation incorrect.  Overall, Im not persuaded the increase in 
2018 was unfair.
When the increase  took place, Mr V was in an existing payment arrangement with TMB 
which they allowed  to continue despite  the increase. I think  this was fair, and it allowed  Mr V 
to continue paying what hed said he could afford until the arrangement ended and another  
review of his circumstances was carried out. So considering everything,  Im not 
recommending TMB  do anything further to resolve this part of Mr Vs complaint.
TMB pursuing legal action  despite Mr Vs proposals
Mr V had previously tried to sell his house to repay the arrears and the mortgage, but 
unfortunately was unsuccessful. Since then, hed developed alternative plans to repay TMB 
which he put to them in 2018.  He was pursuing  two options initially, both of which  involved 
separating the titles on the property, with the option of developing on the land which  would 
be sold to repay the arrears. He was also willing to sell the land without the developments if 
TMB were  to agree to this. Once this was done, he also wanted to sell the main house which 
would repay  the full mortgage by the end of the term in 2023.
Despite Mr V writing to TMB  with his proposals on several occasions  in late 2018 and early 
2019, TMB  pursued legal action to recover the arrears. I can understand  why Mr V felt his 
proposals had been  ignored,  as they didnt respond to him directly  about his proposals.  And 
in their letter to him in December 2018  they said they wouldnt consider any proposals until 
they reviewed Mr Vs financial circumstances. But following that Mr V continued to write to 
them with estimated valuations should  the developments  go ahead, which  would have 
cleared the arrears as well as some of the mortgage balance. 
Ref: DRN80765784During this time, Mr Vs daughter also had conversations with TMB on Mr Vs behalf. And 
whilst I havent listened to recordings of these calls,  the notes show that TMB  said they 
would only be willing to stop legal action if the monthly amount of £5,631.03 was paid to start 
reducing the arrears.  Mr Vs daughter told TMB that wasnt affordable for them.
Whilst TMB wasnt willing  to put legal action on hold,  I can see in April 2019 they did have a 
conversation with Mr V about the proposals, and said they would need an up to date 
valuation of the property and the land which would incur a fee. Mr V said he wanted to wait 
until the following  month to complete a valuation.  Following that conversation  TMB sent Mr V 
more detail about the information they would  need  to consider his proposal  further. Mr V 
replied to this letter  asking TMB to instruct  a valuation.  
Looking at everything thats  happened here, I do think  TMB should have engaged with Mr 
Vs proposals sooner than they did, as he didnt receive responses to the letters he sent 
towards the end of 2018. Im also persuaded it was unfair for TMB to pursue legal action 
before these proposals had been  properly  considered.
The guidance issued  by the regulator  says that lenders should only consider taking legal  
action to repossess  a property as a last resort. I do understand that as Mr V was not making  
monthly payments  to the mortgage from the beginning of 2019, the already significant  
arrears balance was growing quickly. And its not in a borrowers  best interests to allow 
situations like that to continue indefinitely. But in this case,  Mr V was proposing  a way to 
clear the arrears balance,  so I think it would have been reasonable for TMB to give this 
proposal full consideration before taking steps  towards repossession.
TMB have told us that they couldnt  allow a further hold on the account in 2018 as theyd 
already done that in 2015, and Mr V wasnt able to sell the property. I appreciate that TMB 
had already demonstrated considerable forbearance  in previous years when Mr V was 
experiencing difficulties paying the mortgage. But things  had changed since  then. And Mr V 
was proposing a different way forward which, if agreed,  could have cleared the arrears 
balance, allowing further time for the property  to be sold and the full balance to be repaid 
before the end of the term. So I dont  think it was reasonable for TMB to say they wouldnt 
put a hold on legal action  just because theyd done this once  before.
I want to be clear that Im not making  a finding  here about whether TMB should have 
accepted Mr Vs proposals.  I think it was reasonable that TMB wanted more  information 
about them  before  making  any decisions about  whether  they were  acceptable.  But I do think  
TMB should  have stopped legal action until the proposals had been considered. 
As a result, I agree  with the investigator  that TMB should refund any costs incurred and 
added to Mr Vs mortgage account as a result  of the legal action taken in 2019.
Mr V says that because  his proposals were not accepted earlier,  hes remained stuck in a 
mortgage which has continued to accrue interest. During this time the pandemic has also hit, 
and sadly Mr Vs health has worsened. He feels his current position could have been 
avoided if TMB had allowed him to sell the land and the house earlier when he initially set 
out his plans. As a result, he feels TMB should pay him around £53,000 in financial loss for 
the interest payments that TMB have continued  to charge on the mortgage.
Ref: DRN80765785I can appreciate Mr Vs frustrations here, and Im sorry to hear about  the difficulties hes 
continued to experience during whats been  a challenging time. But Im not persuaded the 
fact that the arrears and mortgage  are still in place is solely  due to unfair  treatment by TMB.
Whilst I think TMB should have considered, and should still consider, Mr Vs proposal to split 
the land  this doesnt  mean it would  have been  approved. And even in the event it was 
approved, there are many  external variables which would have impacted how quickly  this 
would have realised  the money needed to repay  TMB. These  matters  are not straightforward 
and take time to fully complete. Notwithstanding the fact that the pandemic  would  also have 
almost certainly had an impact. So whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr 
V, Im not persuaded TMB should refund the payments theyve continued  to charge him in 
this time.
Communication 
Mr V has also complained about  the poor communication  hes received from TMB generally, 
and in particular  when his legal representative was requesting information from them in the 
lead up to court action.  
Ive already said that I think TMB should  have  responded to Mr Vs proposals  sooner than 
they did. And looking at what happened between TMB and Mr Vs legal representative, it 
does seem there was confusion over whether he held the necessary authority - which wasnt  
resolved until April 2019. 
I can see Mr Vs legal representative was chasing TMB for a response  and I think TMB could 
have dealt with this more promptly. As a result, I do think they caused  some additional 
distress and inconvenience to Mr V who was relying  on the information requested  from TMB 
to present in court.
Summary
Overall Im satisfied that TMBs decision to take legal  action whilst Mr V was proposing  
alternatives, as well as their poor communication, did cause him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Mr V has said a reasonable amount to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience of TMBs actions would be £54,000.  
Whilst I dont doubt  how hard things  have been  for Mr V over the last few years, Im not 
persuaded thats all been  as a direct  result of unfair treatment by TMB. So considering all the 
circumstances, I agree  with our investigator that £500 is an appropriate amount to recognise 
the distress that would have been caused by TMB not handling things as they should have. 
Mr V has asked  that TMB now put his mortgage  on the lowest interest rate available in the 
banking group, so the CMP becomes affordable  for him. But Im not satisfied TMB  should  
make any changes to the mortgage until theyve had a conversation with Mr V about what 
his plans are now for redeeming both the arrears  and the mortgage,  given  things have 
changed since his initial proposal in 2018. Mr V will also need to provide TMB with 
information about what he can afford  to pay each month until the mortgage  is redeemed. Id 
then expect TMB to give full consideration to all of the options  available to Mr V to repay  the 
arrears before starting  legal action. If more  information  is needed  from Mr V to consider  any 
proposals, TMB will need to allow him a reasonable period of time to do this given his 
current ill health.
Ref: DRN80765786Overall, whilst I know it will come  as a great disappointment to Mr V, Im upholding his 
complaint but only in part.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct The 
Mortgage Business  Plc to:
Refund any fees added to the mortgage  as a result of the legal action taken in 2019;
Pay Mr V £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8076578