K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt  know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken  at 
the same  time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1995.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, at the least, over 18 years  ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither Lloyds  nor Mr F has been able to provide any of the specific 
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Ive seen a credit card statement from 28 January 2000 which shows that Mr F was paying 
for PAYMENTS INSURANCE  PREMIUM. I think its more likely that Mr F would have  
been provided with these  statements and would have been  aware  he was paying  for this 
policy. So if Mr F hadnt agreed to the PPI then I think his statements would have put him on 
notice he was paying for something he hadnt agreed to and he would have, most likely, 
raised this as an issue with Lloyds many  years before  he eventually chose to do.     
The same statement shows there was an existing credit balance  on the card.  So it seems 
that the card was sold prior to 2000.  Consequently,  its more likely that the PPI was sold 
prior to 2000 as well. Ive not seen anything  that clearly shows  Lloyds didnt make Mr F 
aware the PPI was optional, failed to secure  his agreement to take it out or miss-lead  him to 
thinking that he had to take out the cover to get the credit. And in any event, considering how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold  the 
complaint on these points.  So having considered  all the submissions I have  received  in this 
case, I think its more likely  that Lloyds wouldve made Mr F aware  that the PPI was optional  
and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. 
Ref: DRN88511172I say this because  Mr F was eligible for the policy and wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
say this as whilst Mr Fs initial  sick pay was good,  it dropped significantly after six months.  
And Mr F has not provided details of any other no means he could have relied  on in that 
event, although  he has told us he would have had some redundancy pay if he was made 
unemployed. This PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mr Fs monthly  balance  for up to 12 
months in the event  he was too ill to work,  or if he lost his job. So, considering Mr Fs means 
at the time, I think the policy would have been useful to Mr F if something went wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8851117