K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Best Risk Management  & Financial Service  Limited (Best Risk) mis-
sold him a combined  unemployment and life cover  insurance policy.
background
In February 2017,  Best Risk sold Mr B two income  protection policies.
Mr B was made  redundant at the end of 2017  and made a claim under both policies. The
first insurer  initially declined  his claim but later accepted it. The second insurer  declined the
claim because  it felt Mr B was reasonably aware his employment was at risk before  he took
out the cover. But they also said Mr B wasnt making  Class  1 National Insurance
contributions, and therefore  didnt meet the eligibility  criteria for cover under the policy.
Mr B complained to Best Risk about  the sale of the policy. He said Best Risk hadnt asked
him about whether he made  National  Insurance  Contributions,  and so he hadnt known that
this would impact on his eligibility to make a claim.
Best Risk responded saying that before agreeing  to purchase the cover, Mr B was given
sufficient information  to make an informed decision  on whether the policy  was suitable. So it
didnt feel the policy was mis-sold and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr B then complained to our service. Our investigator said that although the sale was
completed on a non-advised basis, Best Risk had asked Mr B whether he was eligible to
claim Job Seekers Allowance, but failed  to establish whether he made Class 1 National
Insurance contributions. And the questions Best Risk asked Mr B about his ability  to claim
Job Seekers Allowance had no bearing  on his eligibility to claim a benefit under the policy.
Our investigator was satisfied Mr B could claim Job Seekers Allowance, so hed answered
Best Risks  questions correctly. He recommended  that Best Risk refund Mr Bs premiums
with interest.
Mr B and Best Risk were both unhappy with our investigators opinion.  Mr B felt his claim
should be paid.  And Best Risk said it discussed  Mr Bs eligibility  with the insurer,  and based
on that conversation, it proceeded and continued  with the sale.  So, the case  came to me for 
a decision.
I made  my provisional decision on 22 October  2019. In it I said: -
Mr Bs policy  provides an income  if the person  covered  is made redundant or unemployed
through no fault of their own.  But to be classed as employed the insured needs  to be
working for remuneration under a contact  of employment and paying class  1 National
Insurance contributions.
Mr B doesnt  pay Class 1 National Insurance so wasnt  eligible  to claim under the policy.  He
thinks that Best Risk failed to make him aware  of this requirement during the sales  process.
Although Best Risk has said it doesnt  give advice, the Insurance Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (ICOBS) says a firm should take reasonable steps to ensure that a customer
only buys a policy under which he is eligible to claim benefits.
So, what  I need to consider is whether Best Risk took reasonable steps to ensure 
Mr B purchased a policy that he was eligible to claim under.
Ref: DRN84314882Ive listened to the calls between Best Risk and Mr B, during the sales  process. Although  the
Best Risk representative made no reference to whether Mr B makes Class  1 National
Insurance contributions, he did ask him whether hes eligible to claim Job Seekers
Allowance. During one of the calls he told Mr B that it was very important that he checked
that he was eligible for Job Seekers Allowance,  as if he wasnt,  he might  end up paying a lot
of money for a policy  that wouldnt pay out. During each conversation  Best Risk had with
Mr B, the need for him to check that he was eligible for Job Seekers Allowance,  as he was
working outside the UK was repeated.
To be eligible for Job Seekers Allowance  a person must have made Class 1 National
Insurance contributions, usually in the last two to three years.  Mr B wasnt making  Class  1
National Insurance contributions as hed been  working outside  the UK.
While Best Risk might not have  explicitly stated during the sales process that Mr B needed
to be making Class 1 National Insurance contributions, I think they did enough to make
Mr B reasonably aware of the conditions he needed to meet to be eligible for benefit under
the policy. Mr B told Best Risk that hed checked with his accountant and he was eligible for
Job Seekers Allowance. And in doing this confirmed  he was eligible to benefit under the
policy. Unfortunately, this wasnt the case.  But Im satisfied Best Risk took reasonable steps
to ensure Mr B was eligible to benefit  under the policy and to put him in an informed position
on whether to proceed with the cover.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Best Risk havent made any comments on my provisional decision.
Mr B has said he wasnt asked  by Best Risk whether  he was making  National Insurance 
contributions. He was only asked to find out if he could claim Job Seekers Allowance and 
both his accountant and local Job Centre  confirmed that he could. And when he was made 
redundant, he claimed Job Seekers Allowance.
Mr B also says that during a conversation with Best Risk he told them he was a non-UK 
resident paid in dollars, and he didnt pay either UK tax or National Insurance contributions.
Mr B has provided a letter confirming he made a claim from 1 October 2017 to 19 November 
2019, for National Insurance Credits, and was awarded £0 a week,  as his capital exceeded 
the threshold to receive payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Best Risk have told us it was aware  of Mr Bs employment status, and this is why they told 
him to check  carefully that he met the policy eligibility criteria.  I accept  that he did this 
through his accountant and local Job Centre, but I cant  hold Best Risk responsible for the 
answers he was given.
The letter Mr B has provided  states  that his application was for National Insurance Credits,  
not Job Seekers  Allowance. Subject to meeting the financial  eligibility  criteria,  National 
Insurance Credits  will be paid for an applicant who doesnt qualify for Job Seekers 
Ref: DRN84314883Allowance as they havent paid National Insurance contributions for the two years before 
their claim
So, I dont find the letter Mr B has provided to be persuasive evidence that he was eligible to 
receive Job Seekers Allowance.  And as Best Risk made it clear to Mr B that he needed to 
establish this before taking out the policy. I not persuaded  to depart from the findings  in my 
provisional decision. I dont find that Best Risk mis-sold the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Bs complaint  against Best Risk Management and Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8431488