K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
I understand Mr W bought  the PPI in 1995  at the same time as taking  out a personal loan. 
The loan included an amount to pay for the PPI policy, on which  Mr W was also charged  
interest.
Mr W says the PPI was sold in a meeting. Lloyds cant confirm this but has assumed the 
sale took place  during  a meeting at a branch.
Mr W says Lloyds added the PPI to his account without his knowledge or consent. And he 
says he didnt need it because he had good sick pay, some savings and other insurance 
policies and a partner who was in full-time employment.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt  uphold it. Mr W disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Because the sale was so long ago neither  Mr W nor Lloyds has been  able to give us much 
detail about what  happened at the time of the sale. Nor do we have many details about the 
loan or the PPI, except the loan was for £1,000  and lasted  for two years.
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a copy of Mr Ws signed loan agreement.  But we do have 
a sample of a loan agreement it says wouldve been used at the time for PPI sold in a 
branch meeting. I think its likely  this is representative of what Mr W wouldve seen. Theres 
a section about PPI which  is headed Optional  Loan  Repayment Protection. There  are 
two boxes next to this  Yes and No.  
From what  we know about how Lloyds usually sold PPI with personal loans in branch 
meetings at this time, I think its likely an adviser discussed PPI with Mr W at the time he 
took out the loan. And I think  its likely Mr W agreed to the PPI, knowing he had a choice 
about it, so the Yes to PPI box wouldve been selected on his loan agreement. I think if    
Mr W hadnt wanted PPI the No option wouldve been selected  and it wouldnt have been 
added. I know  this isnt how Mr W remembers things. But what he says about what 
happened, on its own and without anything  to back it up isnt enough for me to think  its more 
likely than not Lloyds  didnt follow its usual sales process in his case.
Ref: DRN84440022Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr W, so it needed to make  sure it was right for 
him in his circumstances.  I dont  know what steps  Lloyds took to do this. But Ive looked  at 
what Mr W says of his circumstances at the time. And, although Lloyds doesnt  have a policy  
document for the time when Mr W bought  the cover, it has shown us one from a while  later 
that I think is likely to be representative of the policy terms that applied  to Mr Ws PPI. From 
these things, I think the PPI was right for him because:
Mr W was likely to have been  eligible for the policy. He wasnt  affected by any of the 
things the policy  is likely  to have excluded or restricted  like known health problems 
or unusual employment terms. So I think its unlikely there was anything to stop Mr W 
claiming the full policy  benefit  if hed needed  to.
Mr W says he wouldve got good  sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid his monthly 
loan repayments  for up to the length of his two year loan if he was off work sick  and 
any successful  claim wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay. It would also have 
covered his loan repayments  for up to a year if he lost his job. So, even with his 
workplace benefits, I think  the PPI could still have  been of use to Mr W.
Mr W says he had some savings. But the PPI meant Mr W wouldnt have had to use 
his savings (which he mightve needed  for other things) to make his loan repayments 
if things got difficult.  Mr W also says he had some  other insurance policies. But, from 
what he says, none of these duplicated  the sort of cover the PPI gave him. Finally,  
Mr W says his partner couldve helped. But peoples circumstances can change and 
help like this cant be guaranteed. So none  of these things change my conclusion 
that, at the time he bought  it, the PPI gave Mr W a potentially useful benefit. 
Looking at the likely total cost of the cover  (including the interest Mr W is likely to 
have been charged  by Lloyds)  and at his likely monthly loan repayment amount, if  
Mr W made a claim the amount he couldve got back under the policy  couldve been  
quite a bit more than he paid for it. And I havent  seen anything  to make me think    
Mr W couldnt afford the premium.
Mr W would only have got a limited refund if he cancelled the policy  before the end of 
the two-year loan term. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when it 
recommended the policy to Mr W or explained  to him how any refund would be 
calculated. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr W thought at the time of the 
sale he might repay his loan early.  So I dont think this made the PPI unsuitable for 
him.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr W information  
about the key features of the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading.  From  the sample 
loan agreement Ive got, it seems  the cost of both the loan and the policy over the term and 
the monthly repayments for each were  shown. But there were  some failings, in that neither 
the total interest on the PPI loan nor its total cost was shown.
Lloyds says the interest Mr W wouldve been  charged  over the loan term is likely  to have 
been around £34. Ive already said I think its likely Mr W agreed to buy the cover and it was 
suitable for him. I dont think knowing more about  the amount  of interest hed be charged,  
which it seems  wouldnt  have significantly increased his borrowing, wouldve  stopped  him 
buying the PPI.
Ref: DRN84440023From all of this it follows that I dont think Mr W has lost out because  of anything Lloyds did 
wrong during  the sale. So theres  nothing  it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8444002