K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage through the Nationwide in 1999  and with it a monthly 
premium PPI policy. The policy was sold to them at a meeting  with Nationwide. The policy  
gave them accident and sickness cover. It cost them around £10.33  per month  and 
covered their monthly  mortgage  repayment.  The cover  was split equally between  them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed  and asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear  that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs N had to agree 
to take it.
Nationwide no longer has a copy of all Mr and Mrs Ns paperwork from the time of sale. 
But thats not surprising given that this policy was sold around 20 years ago. Businesses 
generally only keep  records for six years. So, as well as taking into account what  Mr and 
Mrs N have said, Ive also taken into account  what weve learnt  about  Nationwides  sales  
processes from dealing with other cases and from looking at sample paperwork from the 
time of sale.  Overall, I think  it likely that Mr and Mrs N wouldve been given the option to 
take out PPI. So, I cant fairly find that they werent given enough information about PPI to 
understand that it was up to them to decide if they wanted to buy it. I think it more likely they 
opted to take out the cover they wanted, limiting it to accident and sickness cover only.
From what  Ive seen, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, I dont  think  
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs N, so it didnt have to check  it was 
suitable for their needs. But, Nationwide did need  to give them clear information about  the 
PPI so they could decide whether they wanted  to buy it. I cant see that PPI was 
inappropriate for them. I think the policy was appropriate for them  because:
 they were eligible  for the PPI  that is, they qualified  to be covered by the insurance;
 they didnt  appear  to have been  affected  by the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy. So I dont  think having better  information about the things the policy  didnt 
cover wouldve changed their decision to take out the policy.  It seems  they couldve  
benefitted from everything the policy  offered;
Ref: DRN84982722 they said they wouldve got some  sickness benefits through  work,  at least 3 months  
worth of pay. The policy wouldve paid out on top of these  benefits,  and for up to 12 
months per successful claim, so for longer than their work benefits  wouldve covered 
them for. The PPI policy wouldve allowed them to use their work benefits to meet 
their other household  expenses at what mightve been a difficult  time for them  
financially if one or both of them wasnt working. They said they had no other means 
to make their repayments from, so I think the PPI couldve been of use to them in 
their circumstances, to protect  their home.
 I dont know what Mr and Mrs N were told about  the costs  of the policy. It was a 
monthly paid policy  so they couldve  cancelled  it at any time without  losing out 
financially. I think they wouldve  understood they had to pay something for it. It didnt 
appear to be unaffordable at around £10 per month. They  didnt select  
unemployment cover  or additional cover, so I think they likely had enough 
information to decide on the right level of cover  for them.
Ive taken into account everything  that Mr and Mrs N have said,  but this doesnt change 
my view. I dont think theyve lost out because of any problems with the sale of the policy. 
So, it follows, that I dont  uphold their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8498272