K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained that an Appointed  Representative of TenetConnect Limited didnt process
the transfer of his occupational pension scheme  (OPS)  benefits  in a timely  manner. This
meant a deadline  was missed, he had to request a new transfer value which  was lower and
therefore caused him a financial loss.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 March 2020.  The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons  why I intended to uphold  it were set out in 
that decision. A copy is attached and forms part of this final decision.
TenetConnect Limited didnt accept my provisional  findings. It said,  in summary:
process timescales
Mr S didnt  pay the stage 1 initial review fee until 3 July 2017. The Transfer  Advice 
Service Process and Approximate Timeframes documents confirmed payment would 
impact on the approximate timeframes as the initial review work  could not continue  
until payment had been received.
Once the information from the Scheme Administrators  had been received  on 17 July 
2017 it was required  to be checked by an Analyst and Senior Analyst. The case was 
then passed to the adviser on 4 August 2017.
Mr S was away between 6 and 21 August and had said he would be unable  to 
discuss anything at length between these dates.  So even  if the initial  view letter  had 
been sent out sooner,  Mr S wouldnt have been in a position to progress the next 
steps of the process  until after his return . This was not long before the initial view 
letter was actually  sent on 1st September 2017.
Following the actual initial view letter being sent on 1 September 2017, Mr S sent his 
completed Confirmed  Adviser  Charges form on 5 September 2017. Mr S had a 
telephone appointment with the adviser on 13 September 2017,  following which  he 
sent the State Pension  forecasts  on 14 September 2017. Mr S IFA sent in the 
vesting forms and illustrations on 15 September 2017. The advice pack  was then 
sent to Tenet Pre-Approvals team for checking the following working day, 18 
September 2017. The timescale outlined in the Transfer Advice Service  Process and 
Approximate Timeframes documents Stage 2  Full Regulated Advice, was 15 
working days. The advice pack was given  approval by Tenet within the stated 
timescale, on 9 October 2017.  
Its acknowledged that there were no unreasonable delays in obtaining the scheme 
information in this case. The service  was completed both within and towards  the 
lower end of the approximate  timescales  it had informed Mr S of at outset: Stage 1 
was completed in 8 weeks, 4 days (approximate timeframe 8-10 weeks), Stage 2 
completed in 6 weeks, 2 days (approximate  timeframe 6-8 weeks).
managing expectations
Ref: DRN86968122Full details of the whole process, timeframes  and costs were  given in the introduction  
pack and other  documentation.  Mr S was alerted that if the transfer value expired it 
would need to obtain another one for which there may be a charge.  Mr  S signed  the 
declaration on 24 June 2017 confirming  that he had read and understood all pages of 
the introduction  pack.
On 24 and 25 July 2017 the firm e-mailed  Mr S to update him on the progress of his 
case saying that the scheme information had been received and the turnaround time 
for the next stage was around 8 working days. It would then be passed to an adviser 
to prepare his initial review (turnaround was around fifteen working days).  Mr S IFA 
asked for an update  on 1 August 2017.  He was told if Mr S moved to Stage 2 a new 
transfer value  would  be required.
The initial review letter was issued to Mr S on 1 September 2017. It clearly stated 
that a new transfer value would be required if Mr S moved  on to Stage 2 and that it 
could be lower. Acknowledging that the deadline was not going  to be met, Mr S e-
mailed the scheme on 13 September 2017 and requested  an extension to the CETV.  
The scheme responded with the forms that would require completion before the 
deadline in order  to secure the transfer value. Mr S forwarded the forms to the firm 
on 14 September 2017. On 15 September 2017,  the firm responded explaining  that 
because one of the forms was the advice declaration it couldnt be completed until 
the advice recommendation had been made. And on the then turnaround times, the 
20 September 2017 deadline wasnt going to be me. It said it was clear from the 
evidence on file that Mr S expectations  were managed both at outset and throughout 
the process.
The total fee of £2,620 (based on all 3 stages being completed  and the transfer 
proceeding) was clearly set out from the start as well as the service it would provide 
in return for this fee and the associated  timescales. The service  had been carried out 
well within these timescales.  Other IFAs may have had a higher complement of staff 
by comparison,  but may have also charged a higher  initial  fee.
redress methodology
It said it was unclear about part of the redress methodology  in my provisional 
decision
Although it acknowledged that part of providing an efficient and effective service was 
to provide it in a timely manner, what was of great importance and also should be 
taken into consideration was the accuracy of advice  provided  to the customer. Had 
corners been cut this could have caused  errors  which  may have resulted in an 
unsuitable outcome  for Mr S. 
Taking all its points  into account,  it didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S responded to say that he agreed with my provisional findings.  He confirmed he was a 
standard rate taxpayer.
Ref: DRN86968123my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. 
As I said in that decision, I accept that defined benefit transfers from occupational pension  
schemes can take time. And as several parties  can be involved its not always in a firms  
power to complete the process  within the three-month  guarantee period provided  for CETVs. 
So I said I agreed the O&M Approximate Timescales document was helpful in setting Mr S 
expectations.  I also agree that it was clear about the costs of a new transfer value, that it 
might be lower and that then firm kept Mr S informed.  
But I think whats material here is that the firm had all the relevant information it needed by 
17 July 2017.  So what went  on before  that date wasnt  really  key. 
From the actual initial review letter being issued on 1 September it took until 9 October until 
the advice pack  was given approval.  And this was after this letter said that a new transfer  
value would need to be obtained  if Mr S wanted to proceed to the nest stage. So effectively it 
was already being assumed the deadline  had been  missed and so wouldnt have been 
treated with any urgency. 
Even so, if the initial review letter had been  sent on or around 1 August 2017  (using  the 
firms own target timescale from receiving all the information it needed),  ion the same  basis, 
it would  have been around  9 September 2017  that approval would have been given. 
And as I say, given  there was no real urgency  for most of the period from when the actual 
advice letter was sent on 1 September through to 9 October, the time taken would likely 
have been shorter  if both parties had understood the CETV deadline could be met. 
Accordingly,  if the initial review letter had been  sent within the target  timescales, which was 
within the firms powers  and wasnt delayed as a result  of third party delays, Im  satisfied 
there would have been sufficient time following approval for the advisers discussion and 
completion and submission of the appropriate documentation to the Trustees to meet the 
CETV deadline. 
The firm has said that Mr S was away between 6 August  and 21 August 2047 so wouldnt 
have been in a position to proceed with the next steps. However I dont think  the period he 
was away was key if the initial advice letter had been  sent in a timely manner  so prior to 
him going away. And I note that he said in his e-mail that he would:
 not be able to discuss anything at any length  whilst I am away,  however I will be keeping 
an eye on my emails  so if you need anything  or want to make  an appointment please email  
me and of course  copy in my financial adviser.  I will then also be able to confirm any 
appointment times.
And the firms reply included:
Thank you for letting us know the dates you will be away. As per your email below, if we 
need to contact you whilst you are away, we will do so via email.
Ref: DRN86968124So I think it would have  been possible to obtain any relevant  information  during the period  
and arrange the advisers  discussion  which might have been the lengthy discussion 
referred to  albeit would have been  sometime after he got back  even on the revised 
assumed timescales.   
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined  in my provisional decision and above, my final decision 
is that I uphold  Mr S complaint.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if the transfer had been  arranged in a timely 
manner. For the reasons  I outlined in my provisional  decision,  I order TenetConnect Limited 
to calculate and pay compensation on the following basis.
TenetConnect Limited should obtain the value of Mr S pension as at the date of a final 
decision. It should calculate the percentage change in the value of Mr S actual pension from 
16 November 2017 to the date of a final decision. It should then apply that percentage 
change (positive  or negative) to the £26,107  to determine the compensation payable to Mr S 
as at the date of the final decision.
By this I mean that had the £26,107  been  invested as at 16 November 2017 it would have 
either increased or decreased in value along  with the pension  that was invested at that date. 
So in effect,  calculate what the £26,107 would have  been worth at decision date if invested 
at 16 November 2017.
The amount  calculated should  be paid into Mr S pension plan, to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of
charges and any available tax relief.  However  it shouldnt pay the compensation into the
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If for any reason its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr S' pension plan it should
be paid directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have provided a
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S' marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Mr S is a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement,  so the reduction should equal the current  basic 
rate of tax. However, if Mr S is able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should  be added to the compensation payable  at 
decision date but only if settlement  isnt paid within three months  of TennetConnect Limited 
being notified of Mr S acceptance of the final decision. 
TenetConnect Limited should pay Mr S the fee for the second CETV (which I understand 
was £215) plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date that it was paid to 
the OPS administrators  to the date of settlement. Although Mr S was alerted to the second 
fee it wouldnt have  been payable if the first CETV deadline had been met.
TenetConnect Limited should also pay Mr S £300 for the inconvenience Im satisfied the 
matter has caused  him.
Ref: DRN86968125Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before  21  June  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86968126copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complained that an Appointed Representative of TenetConnect Limited  didnt process the 
transfer of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits in a timely manner. This meant a 
deadline was missed,  he had to request a new transfer value which was lower and therefore caused 
him a financial loss.
background
Mr S obtained  a Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) from his OPS administrators on 20 June 
2017. The CETV was £854,613  and was valid for a period of three months. Ive summarised what I 
consider are the key events  and dates:
26 June 2017 - Mr S e-mailed the firm to confirm he was sending the signed documentation it 
required to start the process
29 June 2017 - TenetConnect sent Mr S a letter informing him of the timescales for each 
stage of its process. The stages  and approximate  timeframes were:
1.The initial  review  8-10 weeks
2.To provide full regulated advice - 6-8 weeks
3.To implement  the transfer   4-8 weeks
My understanding  is that the firm had all the information it required from the OPS  
administrators by 17 July 2017
4 August 2017 - The TVAS had been  checked by a technical analyst and was ready to be 
passed to an adviser
1 September  the initial viability report was issued
5 September  the adviser charges document was received by the firm
13 September  the adviser discussed  the recommendations with Mr S
14 September - a reminder was sent to the IFA requesting a summary of the proposed advice 
about vesting
15 September - the Introducing Adviser Vesting Stage Acceptance Form was received from 
the IFA
20 September 2017  the CETV deadline passed
9 October 2017   the regulated advice report was sent (dated 15 September  2017).
Accordingly, the three-month CETV deadline was missed.  A new transfer value was obtained  by Mr 
S which was £26,107 lower. The transfer value  was received by the new scheme  on 16/11/2017.
Mr S complained to the firm saying that the deadline was missed because  of its delays and he wanted 
compensation. TenetConnect didnt  uphold the complaint and Mr S subsequently referred  it to us. 
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. He didnt think it should  be upheld. His view was 
that TenetConnect had informed Mr S of the approximate  timeframes on 29 June 2017. And it had 
met them, completing each stage within  the timescales described. 
Ref: DRN86968127He also thought that Mr S would have been aware  of the likely  timescales given his previous 
experience as an IFA. Ttherefore he would  have known it was unlikely that the transfer would  have 
been completed by the guarantee date.
Mr S didnt agree.  In brief, he said TenetConnect had missed the deadline because  of staff shortages, 
which theyd made him aware  of when hed chased the transfer. He felt it was unfair that 
TenetConnect was using the approximate timeframes on his particular transfer,  as he believed his 
case wasnt complicated  and didnt require a lot of additional work.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
TenetConnect has said that it processed the transaction within the timescales  set out in its document  
O&M Transfer Adviser Service Process And Approximate Timeframes.  It therefore  doesnt think the 
complaint should succeed.  
Transfers of defined benefits from occupational pension  schemes  can take time.  Several  parties can 
be involved, and its not always in a firms power to complete the process  within  the three-month 
guarantee period  provided for CETVs. So I think the O&M Approximate Timescales  document can be 
helpful in setting the clients expectations  as it might not be possible to arrange the transfer within  
the deadline provided. 
However thats not always the case. The firm promotes itself as specialising in pension transfers of 
this type. And as it knows, CETVs are time sensitive. I didnt say at outset that it would never  
complete its process in time to meet the CETV guarantee deadline. The firms introductory  letter 
dated 29 June 2017 said, amongst other things:
Timescales
It can take a number of months  to gather  all the information from your ex-employer's  scheme to 
enable us to provide a report and recommendation  to you. We aim to provide  our initial review as 
soon as possible and might  make some  conservative assumptions for any scheme  information 
which has not been provided by the scheme administrators.
Terms of Business
We are committed  to providing all our customers with an efficient and effective service.  In 
order to achieve this, we believe that it is important to agree in advance  the nature of our relationship 
with you. Please familiarise  yourself with our enclosed Terms of Business (which come  into force with 
immediate effect) in order to ensure that our services are right for you and to avoid any 
misunderstandings in the future. Please let us know as soon as possible  if you have any queries 
regarding these terms. [My emphasis in bold]
So I think Mr S was reasonably entitled to expect that it provided a timely and efficient  service; the 
Approximate Timeframes  document gave, as described, approximate timeframes. But I tend to agree 
with Mr S that this should  depend on the complexity  of the transaction and behaviour of the other third 
parties involved  that the firm has no control over. There was no reference to the O&M Transfer 
Adviser Service Process And Approximate Timeframes in the Terms of Business  letter. And as the 
firm said,  whilst it can take a number of months to gather  all the relevant scheme information thats 
not always  the case.  My understanding here is that the firm had all the relevant information by 17 July 
2017.
Ref: DRN86968128So this was only 11 working days after the firms 29 June letter quoted above.  The O&M Approximate 
Timescales document said Once all the information needed has been obtained,  we have an internal 
target of 5-10 working days for the adviser  to consider  their initial view and issue the letter  to you.
So by its own targets the initial advice was due to be given by around 31 July/1  August  (around a 
month earlier than the initial report was actually issued). This would have provided  it with over a 
seven-week window to provide the formal regulatory advice and complete and submit any relevant  
paperwork.  I note that whenever Mr S or his IFA were asked  for information they responded within a 
short timescale. The only material delays from this point appear to be the time taken to progress the 
matter internally by the firm. And my understanding is that the firm acknowledged this was a result of 
it being  under resourced.  
Whilst Mr S may have had some knowledge and experience of pension transfers  this doesnt preclude  
him from being entitled  to expect the firm to provide  a timely and efficient  service. He was engaging 
the services of a professional firm and paying for those services. The firm was bound  by the Financial  
Conduct Authoritys Principles for Business which include Principles 2 and 6. These require  that firms 
conduct their business with due skill care and diligence,  and that they pay due regard  to the interests 
of their customers and treat them fairly.
I think  in the context of Mr S knowledge and experience he would have been in a position to have 
assessed the likely complexity of the transaction and taken a view on the approximate timescales that 
would be required to process his particular transfer. The Approximate  Timeframes document  is as its 
headed  approximate. I dont think it gives the firm a licence to process all transfers within a 26-week 
period (the higher  total estimated to complete the  three  stage process; and double  the length of time 
a CETV  is guaranteed for) and claim  its provided  an efficient  service. And I dont think  Mr S should 
have had an expectation from the off that there was never any expectation that it would  meet  the 
CETV deadline. I agree  with Mr S that hed have  a reasonable expectation that it would depend on 
the particular circumstances of the transaction.
Having carefully considered the matter, Im satisfied the firm had ample opportunity to process its part 
of the transaction to enable Mr S to meet the CETV deadline. And that its delays caused that deadline  
to be missed. Im satisfied that Mr S would have completed the transfer and been entitled  to the 
higher transfer  value  but for the firms delays. And therefore  Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable 
that the firm pays appropriate compensation to      Mr S.
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as
possible to the position  he would probably now be in if the transfer had been arranged  in a timely 
manner. 
Trustees should usually pay a transfer value  within  six-months  of the guarantee date. Whilst  I accept  
that the transfer may have completed earlier but for the firms failures, the new CETV  was paid only a 
short time after the original  CETV guarantee  date deadline. So I think its reasonable to still use this 
date as a basis to calculate  appropriate compensation.
My understanding is that Mr S invested the transfer value  in a number of different funds. It wouldnt be 
straightforward to replicate the exact position assuming  the higher transfer value had been paid. I 
therefore intend to order that TenetConnect Limited  obtain the value of Mr S pension as at the date of 
a final decision. It should calculate the percentage change in the value of Mr S actual pension  from 
16 November 2017 to the date of a final decision. It should then apply that percentage change  
(positive or negative) to the £26,107 to determine the compensation payable  to Mr S as at the date of 
the final decision.
Ref: DRN86968129The amount calculated should be paid into Mr S pension  plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. However it shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would  conflict  
with any existing protection  or allowance.
If for any reason  its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan it should  be paid 
directly to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan it would  have provided  a taxable income.  
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow  for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr S's marginal rate of tax in retirement. I think Mr 
B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction should equal the current  basic 
rate of tax. However, if Mr B is able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should  be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
I dont intend to order  the firm to refund its fees to Mr S. Mr S would have had to pay fees to arrange 
the transfer so I dont  think  he has paid more  fees than he would  otherwise have  had to pay. 
However he did have to pay for another CETV. So I intend to order that the firm pay Mr S that fee 
(which I understand was £215) plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date that it 
was paid to the OPS administrators  to the date of settlement.
I also intend  to order that TenetConnect Limited pays Mr S £300 for the inconvenience Im satisfied 
the matter has caused him. 
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8696812