K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly recorded a default on his credit file, which 
meant that he was refused subsequent credit.
background 
In 2013, TSB refused  to pay two direct debits as Mr O didnt have enough money in his 
account. It charged him £10 for each returned direct  debit, and applied overdraft interest. As 
a result his account  was overdrawn by £14.17.  
TSB wrote to Mr O about his overdraft and he visited a branch to find out how it had arisen. 
He said the staff were  unable to provide him with a satisfactory explanation, but they were  
clear that his credit file would be affected whether he now paid the amount owing or not.
Mr O took no further action, and in February  2014  TSB wrote off the outstanding balance  
and recorded  a default on Mr Os credit  file.
It wasnt until 2018 that Mr O realised that this had happened and he complained to TSB.
TSB replied saying that the information  it had recorded was correct,  but it paid Mr O £25 for 
the delay in replying to his complaint.
Mr O was dissatisfied with this outcome and so in November  2018 he complained to us. He 
said the adverse  information on his file was holding up his mortgage application, and he 
might therefore lose the house he wanted to purchase. He also said he had been turned 
down for a store card three times by a major store, which meant he had been  unable to take 
advantage of a deal available to customers purchasing a watch  who also signed up for a 
store card.
Having considered the detail of Mr Os complaint our adjudicators  view was that TSB had 
been wrong to record the default. In summary,  she said guidelines from the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) said that banks shouldnt record  defaults where the outstanding 
amount was made up solely  of fees and charges.  And as this was the case  here, TSB 
shouldnt have registered the default.  She therefore  recommended that TSB pay Mr O £500 
for the inconvenience  it had caused  him, which TSB agreed  to do.
But Mr O rejected that sum as insufficient and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He said 
that even though TSB had now removed  the default  it had done so too late for him to secure 
his mortgage and so he had lost the house  he had hoped to buy. He also said that the 
existence of the default had caused him and his family much  distress. And he would  have 
liked to have applied  for a loan in 2018  to help his son who had started university,  but didnt 
do so because he knew he would  be turned  down.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen Im satisfied that TSB correctly applied charges  to Mr Os 
account in 2013 for two returned  direct debits. As this resulted  in his account  becoming 
overdrawn I would have  expected that information  to be recorded  on Mr Os credit file for 
Ref: DRN86834122each month  that he remained overdrawn. Mr O says he didnt bring  his account back  into 
credit because he wasnt convinced that the overdraft  was genuine. And so in February 
2014, and because the amount outstanding was small, TSB wrote  off the balance and 
closed Mr Os account. TSB said it wrote to Mr O at the time about what was happening. Mr 
O says he didnt receive any communication from the bank and so was unware of the 
actions it had taken,  although I note he didnt  attempt  to use the account after TSB says it 
wrote to him. 
TSBs actions up until that point  were reasonable and in line with normal  banking practice. 
But its actions became unreasonable when it decided to record  a default on Mr Os credit 
file. ICO guidelines state clearly  that defaults shouldnt  be recorded where the sum owing 
consists entirely of fees and charges,  which was the case  here.
Following Mr Os complaint to us TSB removed the default. And so the decision I must make  
now is about the level of compensation the bank should pay Mr O for the adverse impact  on 
him of incorrectly recording the default.
Mr O says he missed  out on an offer to buy a second watch  at half price because  his store 
card application,  on which the offer was contingent,  was declined three times. The watch  
cost £125. Mr O hasnt been  able to provide any additional evidence of his refused 
applications, but I am content to accept  what he has said and consider it likely that the 
default could have been a contributory factor in his applications being refused. But in saying 
this I also note that in the absence of the default  Mr Os credit file might well have shown that 
his account had been overdrawn for some months. 
Mr O has also said he lost a house  purchase because his mortgage application was held up 
awaiting the outcome  of his complaint about the default. But although I am satisfied that Mr 
Os mortgage application was indeed held up as he has said,  I cannot know  for certain that 
his application  would  otherwise have been  approved. And given the number of other factors 
involved in the successful purchase  of a house,  Im afraid that Im unable  safely to conclude 
that his house purchase would have proceeded to completion even if the bank  had approved 
his mortgage application at the earliest  opportunity.
Mr O has also made  the point that he has been unable to apply for a loan to help his son 
because he knew the application would be rejected. But Im unable to speculate on what 
might have happened if Mr O had submitted such an application, and certainly cannot  
reasonably award  him compensation for actions he might have, but didnt in fact take.
But TSB was wrong to record  the default  on Mr Os credit file and I recognise  that this has 
caused him significant distress and inconvenience.  And having considered in detail all the 
points raised by Mr O my decision is that a payment of £500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for what has happened.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr O £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Ref: DRN86834123June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683412