K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) did not inform him that 
the extended warranty benefit  for his FlexPlus account was removed. Mr G has said that this 
resulted in him not being able to make  a claim under this benefit
background
Nationwide changed  the benefits included with the FlexPlus packaged account in September  
2017. Amongst  others,  it removed the extended warranty  benefit. 
Nationwide says it let all of its FlexPlus customers know about these changes  in a mailing  
sent in July 2017  over two months  before they were due to take effect.
Mr G has complained that when Nationwide changed the benefits  associated with the 
FlexPlus account, it didnt  let him know. Mr G says this led to him trying to make a claim on a 
benefit that no longer existed.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Nationwide had treated  Mr G unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Nationwide  needed to do anything to put things right. Mr G didnt agree so 
he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Gs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think Nationwide has treated him 
unfairly, so I dont think it needs  to put anything  right. Ill explain why.
Mr G says that Nationwide didnt notify him it had removed the extended warranty benefit of 
the FlexPlus account. So hes said that when  he attempted  to make a claim under that 
policy, he was told he wouldnt be able to as that benefit no longer existed.
The terms and conditions  of the account say that changes can be made  as long a notice is 
given. So the key thing that I have considered is whether Nationwide gave Mr G notice and 
Ive thought about whether Nationwide gave  Mr G the information it shouldve  when it made  
changes to his account.
Nationwide initially sent us a sample letter, that it said it sent to all FlexPlus customers in 
July 2017. Nationwide has also confirmed the address that it held for Mr G at the time and 
provided me with enough information for me to be satisfied that it is more likely than not that 
the letter was sent. So I think that Nationwide discharged its obligations to notify Mr G that 
the extended warranty was being  removed and it did not need to do anything more.
I want to reassure Mr G that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think 
Nationwide has treated Mr G unfairly.
Ref: DRN87832142my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8783214