K820x#14complaint
Mrs E and Mr R are unhappy Admiral Insurance  Company Limited is only paying a 
proportionate amount  of their travel insurance  claim.
background
In April 2018 Mrs E and Mr R bought joint annual travel insurance. They were asked a series  
of questions as part of the sale and also asked to tell Admiral  about their medical histories. 
Mr R answered  no to all the questions asked for both of them and didnt declare any 
previous medical  conditions.
In September  2018 Mrs E and Mr R went on holiday. Unfortunately  Mrs E had a fall whilst 
they were abroad  and needed to be taken  to hospital, so they contacted Admiral about  
claiming on their policy. Admiral then discovered  that Mrs E had previously suffered from 
breast cancer. It said that if this had been disclosed,  it would still have offered cover  to her 
and Mr R, but the premium would  have been  £252.20, rather than the £170.01 that they had 
paid. On that basis, it said it would only cover the claim  in line with the proportion  of premium  
that had been paid.  And so Mrs E and Mr R would need to contribute to the medical and 
travel costs.
Admiral arranged for Mrs E and Mr R to fly home  early, with them contributing  to the cost of 
these flights. The flight was arranged from an airport several hours away  from the hospital 
Mrs E was in. Admiral said this was because there  were no flights  available  from the airport 
close to Mrs E with enough seats  for them both to fly  and for her to have additional  seats 
to elevate her leg.
Mr R and Mrs E made a complaint to Admiral  about  the way their claim had been handled. 
They argued that they should be entitled  to 100% cover, as Mrs Es cancer was unrelated  to 
her fall, so shouldnt impact her cover for this. They also disagreed with the proportion 
Admiral had said they were responsible for, on the basis it was to maintain they werent fully 
covered. Admiral stated  they paid 52% of the amount needed, so they needed  to contribute 
48% of all the costs.  Mr R disagreed and said theyd paid 68% so only needed to pay 32% of 
the costs. They were also unhappy  with the service  provided and that their flight  home 
wasnt from the local airport.  They said they only realised this on receipt of their boarding  
passes and Admiral  didnt arrange  for their transport  to this airport, so they had to do this at 
a difficult time with short notice.
Admiral partially upheld their complaint. It didnt agree to cover  Mrs Es claim costs  in full, but 
acknowledged the proportionate settlement  had originally been incorrectly  calculated. It 
agreed 68% was the correct figure and said it would arrange for the claims department  to 
refund Mrs E and Mr R their overpayments  and pay the hospital a further sum as the full 
bill hadnt  been  settled by Mrs E and Mr R yet.
Mrs E and Mr R were  unhappy with the response, so they brought their complaint to our 
service. They considered they should  be covered for the full costs  and wanted compensation 
for the service received.  They also said another holiday  was missed due to Mrs Es 
rehabilitation from her fall.
Ref: DRN85386652Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt  think Admiral needed to cover the 
full claim,  as he considered it had acted in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012, which covers situations  where a consumer hasnt fully disclosed 
information to an insurer. However he considered Admiral should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on top of any amounts Mrs E and Mr R overpaid due to Admirals error  in calculating 
the proportion  covered,  from the date they paid this until the date they were refunded. And 
he awarded £175 in compensation for the distress  caused by this error and by Admiral not 
giving Mrs E and Mr R more notice about  where  their flight  home was from. He said Admiral  
was aware of this two days  before  the flights, but only let Mrs E and Mr R know  late in the 
evening the day before.
Admiral disagreed. It didnt think the miscalculation  of the proportionate  settlement caused 
Mrs E and Mr R any detriment and said it had already apologised for this and rectified it in its 
final response. So it considered £175  was too high for the airport  booking issue. Mrs E and 
Mr R accepted the assessment in relation to why they werent covered for the full claim and 
the redress for this part. However they didnt  consider £175 was a fair amount of 
compensation for the overall  distress theyd been caused and the impact the incorrect 
calculation and airport booking  issue  had. So the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted the assessment in relation to why only a proportionate 
settlement of the claim is due, I dont need to make further findings on this point. Im in 
agreement with our investigator  that Admiral is fair to settle the claim on a proportionate 
basis, based on the amount of premium it received from Mrs E and Mr R.
Ive considered Admirals  point that Mrs E and Mr R didnt suffer any detriment due to the 
miscalculation of the proportionate settlement, however I disagree.
Admiral required Mrs E and Mr R to make their proportion of the payments whilst they were  
still abroad, which meant they had to find more money than they should have, at what was 
already a stressful and difficult time. Further, they had to repeatedly argue with Admiral  over 
the proportionate amount and it was only on making a formal  complaint that this was 
resolved.
Admiral has confirmed that the refund  of overpayments was made in March 2019, despite 
agreeing that the calculation was wrong  in October  2018. Mr R has explained he had to put 
in a request for a refund  himself in March 2019 as up to this point nothing  had been 
received. And hes stated  that the amount paid was incorrect, as he was paid a proportionate 
amount of his overpayment, rather than the full amount. Admiral has since  confirmed the 
amounts paid in March  2019 and I can see the overpayment was reduced  by 32% - so Mrs E 
and Mr R are still due additional funds.
Im in agreement with our investigator that Admiral should have awarded Mrs E and Mr R 8% 
simple interest per annum on the amounts  they overpaid due to the Admirals miscalculation. 
This should be paid from the date Mrs E and Mr R paid these amounts until the date they 
were paid  or are repaid  in relation to the amount still owing.
Ref: DRN85386653Ive considered the impact the way this claim was handled on Mrs E and Mr R. Im in 
agreement with our investigator  that an amount is due to them  for the distress  caused by 
Admirals errors in the calculation and the lack of notice about  the airport.
I think its important to set out that I accept Admirals reasoning  for arranging the flights  from 
the airport that it did. It cant be held responsible for availability on flights and as Mrs E 
needed additional seats, she had to fly from an airport further away.  So I dont agree that this 
was an error  by Admiral.  However I can see from its correspondence that it had reserved 
seats for Mrs E and Mr R on this plane  two days  prior to them  flying, so I consider it 
shouldve made  them aware of this, especially as in his email  Mr R had said about flying 
home from the airport nearby. I appreciate the booking wasnt confirmed at this time, but 
I still consider they shouldve told Mr R what the likely plans were, so he could prepare 
himself and Mrs E for the journey and get provisional transport plans in place.
Considering the situation  as a whole, I think  £175 should be awarded to Mrs E and Mr R as 
a compensation  payment for the distress  caused. I think this reflects the upset they were 
caused in having to unnecessarily pay more money  than they actually owed at a difficult  
time. And for the lack of notice they were given for the airport  location  considering Admiral 
had this information and was expecting  them  to arrange their own transport. I have 
considered Mrs E and Mr Rs reasoning for additional  compensation,  but I think  this is a fair 
amount considering everything thats  happened.
what Admiral needs to do to put things  right
-Refund any overpayments Mrs E and Mr R are still due
-Pay 8% simple interest per annum  on all overpayments, from the date Mrs E and 
Mr R paid them until the date Admiral made/makes the repayment
-Pay £175 compensation to Mrs E and Mr R
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mrs E and Mr Rs complaint against Admiral Insurance  Company Limited.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should arrange for payment of the amounts  set out 
above within 28 days of receiving notice of Mrs E and Mr Rs acceptance  of this decision.
Mrs E and Mr R should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding  on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter  between them and Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
as to whether  the above redress  is available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8538665