K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited refused to cover  treatment for her son.
background
In 2015 Mrs M took out a private  medical  insurance  policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.  
The policy covered herself and her children.
In early 2017, Mrs M called AXA wanting to arrange  a referral to a consultant for her son 
who was suffering from an itchy scalp and some hair loss.  During the call, AXAs adviser  
told Mrs M shed  need a referral letter from her GP before they could confirm if the claim 
would be covered.
Mrs M says she went back  to her GP and provided  AXA with the referral letter. The referral  
letter said Mrs Ms son needed to be seen by a dermatologist for hair loss.
At this point, she says AXA refused to cover  the claim.  It said it didnt cover claims for 
general hair loss unless  there was an underlying medical condition. And as Mrs Ms GP 
hadnt conducted any tests to establish  the cause  of the hair loss, AXA wouldnt agree to 
cover the claim.  
In a letter to Mrs M in June 2017,  AXA went on to say that Mrs Ms policy provides cover for 
treatment once all avenues have been  exhausted in a primary setting.   
Mrs M says because  AXA refused to cover the claim, she paid for a private consultation for 
her son and then had treatment on the NHS.   She thinks AXA should have agreed to cover  
the claim,  and if not, then the policy must  have been mis-sold to her. Mrs M wants AXA to 
refund all her premiums and to pay compensation for the upset  caused.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think AXA had done anything 
wrong.  As  Mrs M remains unhappy,  the case has been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Ive also taken account of industry 
standards (ICOBS) and in particular, the requirement to not unfairly  decline a claim.
I understand Mrs M was worried  about  her sons health, but based  on everything Ive seen I 
agree with the outcome  reached by our investigator, and for the same  reason.  Let me 
explain.
Private medical insurance doesnt  cover all conditions  or all treatments and having listened 
to two calls between Mrs M and AXAs adviser, I think AXA made Mrs M aware of the 
information it would need in order to consider  a claim for her son.  Mrs M was clearly  very 
worried about her son and wanted him to be seen  by a specialist as soon as possible.  
In the first call, Mrs M told the adviser  she thought everything was eligible and the 
adviser explained that wasnt the case, and that Mrs M would need to get a referral letter 
from her sons  GP before AXA could consider the claim.
Ref: DRN84991132In the second  call with AXA, about  a week later, Mrs M again asked about a referral  for her 
son to see a consultant, having  given AXA the referral letter from the GP.
The adviser told Mrs M AXA wouldnt cover  a claim for a consultation based on the 
information from the GP. She explained  the GP letter only referred  to hair loss which wasnt 
something covered  under  the policy, unless the hair loss was the result of an underlying 
medical condition.  As the GP hadnt  conducted  any tests into the reason for the hair loss, 
Mrs M was advised to return to her GP to have some blood  tests taken. The adviser went on 
to explain that if the blood  tests showed a medical reason for the hair loss - she mentioned  a 
thyroid condition  as an example of a condition  that might cause hair loss - treatment for the 
underlying condition could be covered.
Mrs M was clearly  unhappy and talked  to the adviser about cancelling  her policy. Its clear 
she was worried and frustrated and understandably thought hair loss in a child was 
something that needed to be looked into. 
Ultimately, Mrs M says she personally paid for a specialist consultation for her son before 
continuing treatment  on the NHS. Ive not seen any evidence which shows  that Mrs M 
contacted AXA again after the second telephone call to discuss  her sons condition or 
update it on her sons treatment needs.
Ive carefully considered  the fact that Mrs Ms son did go on to have treatment under the 
NHS but I still cant say AXA did anything wrong. Following a blood test, Mrs Ms son was 
prescribed iron tablets.  My understanding is that this treatment was something that could 
have been provided and managed by their GP, and as such is treatment the policy didnt 
cover.
I understand that because AXA didnt agree to cover the claim, Mrs M believes the policy 
was mis-sold to her. She is particularly unhappy about the policy  term regarding  primary 
care services which says - 
how your membership works
Your membership does  not cover primary care services, such  as services that could 
be provided by GPs.  This includes drugs and treatment.
The policy was sold by AXA; it was a non-advised sale. That means  AXA needed to provide 
Mrs M with sufficient  information about the policy to allow  her to make an informed choice 
before going ahead. Having looked at the information  sent to Mrs M in March  2015, Im 
satisfied the information she received sufficiently explained how the policy worked and its 
key limitations and exclusions.  The quote specifically shows that visits to your GP and A&E 
arent covered. And the guide that accompanied the quote also explains that healthcare 
insurance works alongside the NHS, but does not replace it, and includes  information about 
other things  that arent covered. Mrs M was also sent the policy  terms and conditions  which  
again, gives information about  the policy coverage and limitations.
Ive considered very carefully the points Mrs M has made but dont agree, based on the 
information Ive seen, that the policy was mis-sold to her. As Ive mentioned,  private medical 
insurance doesnt cover all conditions and all treatments and Im satisfied that information 
was made  available to Mrs M before she went ahead.
Ref: DRN84991133my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont  be asking AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8499113