K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that furniture Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited (Lloyds)  put in 
storage whilst it completed remediation work on Mrs Hs home was returned  to her 
damaged. Shes also unhappy with the length of time it took Lloyds to send  her an audio  
recording of a meeting  theyd  had.
background 
Mrs H made  a claim for damage to her home that had been caused  by a leak from a shower 
water trap on the first floor. Lloyds accepted the claim  and agreed to carry out remediation 
work. It arranged for Mrs Hs yew wood  furniture and an oak coffee table to be stored in a 
warehouse whilst it did this. 
Mrs H says that when the furniture was returned to her it was damaged. The yew wood 
furniture had light streaks and marks on it and the oak table had blanket strands stuck to a 
residue on its surface. Mrs H says the furniture was in good condition before it was taken 
from her home and put in storage. Shes  also provided statements from two third parties that 
say the yew wood furniture was damaged due to it not being dried out properly and also how 
it had been stored.
Lloyds appointed a wood  and timber restoration expert to inspect the furniture  who 
concluded the streaks and marks on the yew wood furniture had resulted from part of the 
wood changing  colour over time.  He also thought the damage to the coffee table was due to 
it being stored with a blanket wrapped around  it. 
Lloyds didnt agree  it was responsible for the streaks and marks on the yew tree furniture 
and it refused to restore or replace all of the furniture. Unhappy  with this, Mrs H referred her 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and felt it should 
be upheld in part. In summary, she said:
She couldnt conclude Lloyds were  responsible for the light streaks and marks on the 
yew wood furniture  so she didnt think it had acted unreasonably in refusing to 
replace or restore it;
She was satisfied Lloyds were  responsible  for the damage to the coffee table and felt 
it should pay Mrs H the amount it would cost her to get the coffee table repaired 
(£350); and
Lloyds should  pay Mrs H £50 for its delay sending an audio recording  of a meeting 
theyd had.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  Mrs Hs 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN85964432the yew wood furniture
The starting point  here is to consider  what caused the streaks  and marks on the furniture. 
Ive been provided  with conflicting expert views  on this, so Ive had to consider which of 
these I find the most persuasive.  
Mrs H has provided a statement from a French polishing expert and a repairer of furniture. 
He confirmed that hed visited Mrs Hs home  around three months  prior to the leak and after 
seeing the furniture again, after it had been returned from storage, he was shocked at how 
the furniture had changed. He referred to Lloyds not installing dehumidifiers  at the property 
and the delay in the furniture being taken  into storage. He concluded:  
I firmly believe that due to the furniture not being dried out properly  following  the house  
flood and being put into wooden crates  and stored  in a hot warehousethis has severely 
affected the yew wood  grain and changed  the appearance  of the furniture .
Mrs H has also provided a statement from an antiques dealer and exporter which states:
due to the heavy  water damage causing  severe damage to the veneers, and not being  dried  
out correctly we are unable to restore and re-polish these items.  
The first statement refers  to the house flood and second to heavy water damage. This 
suggests there had been a significant escape of water. However, I dont believe either  party 
was present at the time of the leak or saw the immediate  aftermath  so I dont know  how they 
could have known,  with any certainty,  the extent of the leak.
I also have to bear in mind the records made by the contractors who attended  the property at 
the time indicate  the escape of water was relatively minor and only affected the top right 
hand corner of the lounge  and the laminate flooring in the hallway. Records also show drying 
equipment wasnt  installed because no wet areas were  identified.
The French  polishing expert also refers to the furniture being stored in a hot warehouse  but 
he hasnt explained  how hes reached  that conclusion.  I understand that some  sunny 
weather was experienced whilst furniture was in storage, but I dont think  thats enough to 
show the furniture  was stored at a temperature that was detrimental  to it. This seems  to me 
to be an assumption rather than a personal  observation.  
Lloyds appointed a wood  and timber restoration expert to inspect the furniture  at Mrs Hs 
home. In summary, he said:
The lighter streaking  in Mr Hs yew wood furniture  is sapwood and would have been 
there at the time of manufacture. This is the outer part of the trunk of the tree which is 
lighter than the centre and would have  been coloured to look darker;
Some colour change  is likely  over time and the storage of the furniture wouldnt have 
exacerbated this;
Hed looked at two items of furniture that had been stored upstairs  away  from the 
affected area and hadnt been  taken  into storage and one of these also contained the 
lighter problem areas; and
Ref: DRN85964433Hed contacted  timber suppliers and lacquer manufacturers whod suggested he 
looks for evidence to show the veneers  had cracked  or were showing signs of 
humidity or dehumidification and he couldnt  find any evidence of this. He also 
couldnt find any evidence  of damage  caused  by water,  sunlight,  spillages or solvent 
attack. 
In conclusion he felt parts of the wood  in the furniture had faded over a number of years  and 
Mrs H hadnt noticed this. 
I find this assessment more persuasive  than the statements provided by Mrs H. I say this 
because its more thorough and the expert has considered a range of factors including  the 
different parts  of the tree used, common manufacture practices, his experience of how this 
type of wood can change in appearance over time,  other furniture that hadnt been  taken into 
storage and other professional guidance.
I understand that Mrs H is adamant the furniture didnt contain  any streaks  or marks on it 
before it was taken  from her home.  Ive also taken into account the French polishing  expert  
has said he was shocked at how the furniture had changed. However, he hasnt provided 
any detail about  how it had changed since his previous visit. Further,  both he and Mrs H 
have been unable to provide any photographic evidence to support  their statements.
Mrs H has also referred  to an inventory  report that was completed at the time the furniture 
was taken away from her home  which doesnt  mention any damage.  She feels  this proves 
the streaks and marks werent there at that time and they must  have occurred  whilst  the 
furniture was in storage.  But I dont think this necessarily proves that. I say this because if 
the streaks and marks were considered to be natural markings, I wouldnt have expected  
such markings to have  been noted on the report. 
Based on the information available to me, I find the view that the streaks and marks were 
caused by part of the wood changing over a number of years more  plausible than them  
being caused by the furniture not being  dried  out properly and being stored in a hot 
warehouse. Because of this, I dont  think Lloyds has acted  unfairly in refusing to restore  or 
replace the furniture. 
   
the coffee table
The wood and timber  expert appointed by Lloyds has said the damage to the coffee table 
was caused by it being stored with a blanket wrapped around it. So Im satisfied Lloyds is 
responsible for the damage. 
The expert also said he thought the residue  could be removed using  warm soapy water, but 
if this didnt work it would  need to be stripped and re-polished. Mrs H has told us shes been  
unable to repair the damage  so I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances that 
Lloyds pays Mrs H the cost of having the table repaired. The antiques  dealer and exporter  
has confirmed this will cost £350. 
delay sending Mrs H an audio  recording  of a meeting
It took Lloyds around two months to provide Mrs H with an audio recording of a meeting that 
had taken place  at her home. I think the payment of £50 fairly reflects the inconvenience the 
delay caused.
Ref: DRN85964434my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs H a total of £400. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.  
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8596443