K821x#15complaint
The complainant, A, is a company limited  by guarantee  without share capital; it is also a 
registered charity which  had an annual income  of less than £1m at the time of referring this 
complaint to its bank,  TSB. It is therefore  an eligible  complainant under regulatory rules  that 
apply in relation  to disputes about acts or omissions  before 1 April 2019. 
Mr B, one of nine directors/trustees and a signatory for As bank account, is complaining on 
behalf A that TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions  he didnt authorise.  
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
On 18 March 2018, Mr B received a call from someone claiming to be from BT. They  
told him theyd traced an attack  on his router, and they needed to secure various  
things he uses, such as his email  addresses and his bank accounts. 
To do this, they asked  Mr B to go to a website that gave them  access  to his 
computer. Mr B was then shown a list of numbers,  which he was told represented 
errors on his computer. They said they could  secure  his TSB account and correct the 
errors by entering codes  generated  from Mr Bs TSB security device. Mr B followed 
their instructions and shared several codes. 
During the day, multiple payments were made to six new payees from As account   
totalling £96,500. £141.01 has since been recovered  from a receiving bank.  A further  
£20,000 transfer was made to another linked account, under Mr Bs control. TSB 
subsequently refunded any payments that left that account. So, the total loss for 
which A seeks compensation is £96,358.99. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, A isnt liable for payments that a 
director didnt authorise, unless they failed with gross negligence or intent to comply  
with the terms of the account or keep its personalised security details safe.
Its agreed Mr B didnt authorise the transactions (or even realise they were being 
made at the time), because he didnt complete the agreed steps  to make the 
payments. Instead, it seems the fraudster  made  the payments using information they 
convinced Mr B to share by falsely saying they needed to secure As account. 
I dont think Mr B failed with intent to keep his details safe  he genuinely believed  
what he was doing was necessary to protect the account. 
Im also not satisfied Mr B failed  with gross negligence. To convince Mr B that the 
fraudster was from BT, they gave him several pieces of information  including  his 
correct account  number, router number, password and IP address. Given how 
specific and personal this information  is to Mr B as a customer of BT, I can see why 
he believed that they were  who they said they were  I think  most  people would. 
Ref: DRN82966102Having asserted themselves as a trusted  professional, the fraudster told Mr B his 
router was faulty and hackers were trying to attack his account   so they needed to 
secure various things,  such  as his email addresses and bank accounts. Given how 
Mr Bs router  had been replaced  a few weeks before, I can see how this situation 
seemed plausible to him, and why he became panicked by the situation.  
Mr B was asked to go to a website that would  allow BT access  to his computer, so 
they could fix the problems.  Remote access tools are genuinely used to fix IT 
problems nowadays,  so I can understand why this didnt ring alarm bells  and why 
he carried on with the call, trusting  that BT were trying to help. 
Its not clear how the fraudster was able to access  As online banking with TSB.  Mr B 
says he didnt log on to the account during  the call, nor did he share  the password or 
memorable information. He believes the fraudsters may have reset these to gain 
access  as he couldnt log on using his details  after the call. TSB hasnt been able to 
provide us with internet banking records from that day  which could help show what  
happened. But I think Mr Bs submission  does sound likely,  particularly  given the 
other information the fraudster had phished about Mr B before this call. And even if 
Mr B logged  on  or shared details to allow the fraudster to log on, I still wouldnt be 
persuaded he failed with gross  negligence.  The fraudster had gone to significant 
lengths to prove they were legitimately calling  from BT and had presented a credible 
and worrying situation. In this context, I can see how he was completely duped into 
following the fraudsters  instructions and sharing the information  they needed. Falling 
for a sophisticated fraud is not in itself evidence of gross negligence. 
Ive also considered how Mr B shared codes with the fraudster from his TSB security  
device. The fraudsters  had run a programme with false  error messages  and they 
told him that to secure the TSB account  and fix these error  codes they needed him to 
generate several codes from his TSB security device. 
TSB has questioned why someone  from BT would ask you to use a banking  device. 
But, as Ive explained, the fraudsters  cleverly connected it to issues with the security 
of his TSB online banking,  caused  by the supposed  attack on his BT router. Im also 
mindful that most  people arent experts  in cyber  security, nor will they have  come  
across this situation genuinely before. So, if theyre told that the device is needed to 
secure their bank account, its difficult to question   more so if theyve  been  
presented with serious and immediate risks if they dont take action. We see many 
fraud cases. The clarity that comes  with hindsight is rarely available to victims in the 
heat and panic  of the moment  whilst being  manipulated  by clever fraudsters. 
In saying this, I accept that Mr B likely used this device to make payments in the 
past. But most people  wont  know an exhaustive list of what  their security device 
could be used for. And here,  I note that the fraudster had cleverly misdirected him by 
running fake programmes  so that Mr B wouldnt have made the connection  to 
payments being made. 
TSB has highlighted  the number of actions Mr B took  explaining that the more 
things Mr B did, the more  likely  he is to have  acted with gross  negligence. I dont 
agree its this straightforward   after all, Mr B wont have  connected the multiple  
codes with multiple new payees at the time. So, instead, it comes down to the 
Ref: DRN82966103circumstances of the fraud. In the context  here,  given the anxious situation  Mr B 
faced, I can see how he was duped  and misdirected into sharing information, 
believing it was necessary to protect As account.  
On this basis, I dont think Mr Bs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that A isnt liable 
for the transactions  and TSB need  to put things  right  by refunding  its losses  from 
these unauthorised transactions alongside  interest to compensate it for the time its 
been out of pocket.  I also note that TSB awarded A £100 for delays in answering its 
complaint, which I think fairly  reflects its non-financial losses  here, such as 
inconvenience. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold As complaint and I order  TSB Bank plc, within 
28 days of receiving notification from us of As acceptance of this decision, to:
Pay A the total of the unauthorised transactions (£96,500), less any amount already  
returned (£141.01). This does not include  the £20,000 transfer made to Mr Bs linked 
account, as these losses have already been  refunded by TSB.  
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible).
Pay the £100 compensation offered for inconvenience (if not already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 6 February 2021.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8296610