K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) are charging  him 
for an extension of his hire agreement but shouldnt  be as he tried to arrange for collection of 
the car but to no avail.
background
Mr H took receipt of a new car in June 2015. He financed the deal through a two year hire 
agreement with VWFS and he extended that deal in 2017 so that it lasted until 28 
September 2018 when the car was due to be returned. 
Mr H says he tried to contact VWFS to arrange  for the collection but he was kept on hold for 
too long. He explained that the car wasnt driven  or insured during the period he was waiting 
for it to be collected and he shouldnt therefore  be held accountable for the extended hire 
charge of £1090.94 thats since been levied.
VWFS disagreed. They said the car should  have been returned on 28 September and wasnt  
returned until 17 January 2019.  That equated to 110 days  additional hire but theyd  only 
charged for 96 of those  days. They said that an arrangement had been made to collect  the 
car in early  September  but Mr H had cancelled. They went on to explain that they had tried 
to contact Mr H on two occasions in November but the call wasnt  answered.  They  
eventually reached  him in January and the collection was arranged.  They  thought theyd 
made ample  attempts to make collection arrangements  and therefore didnt think they 
needed to waive the extended hire charge.
But Mr H disagreed. He referred his complaint  to this service and our investigator provided 
her opinion. She noted that the terms of the finance  agreement placed the onus on Mr H to 
return the car or make  collection arrangements. She understood that hed made some efforts  
and the call waiting  times  wouldve been inconvenient. But she wasnt  persuaded that Mr H 
had tried other means,  such as online contact, to establish communication and make  
arrangements. So she thought VWFS  were within their rights  to make an additional hire 
charge.
But Mr H disagreed. He said he had spoken  to someone at the collection company who had 
promised to log the call and thats  why he hadnt  pursued the collection any further, by other 
means. He therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN80808562board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms of Mr Hs hire agreement  placed  the onus  for returning  the car, at the end of its 
term, on him.
The term came  to an end on 28 September 2018  and the car wasnt  collected for 110 days. 
The charge  made is in line with the contractual payments.
Its clear that Mr H did make some attempts to arrange collection and I can understand the 
frustration if there were delays in answering  these calls. But Mr H stopped  contacting the 
collection company  in October and Ive not seen evidence that he made  contact 
subsequently. 
As the responsibility  for arranging  collection was his I would  have expected him to pursue 
this in more detail. And, if he couldnt  contact the company by phone,  I think its reasonable 
to suggest he could have contacted them by email, letter  or, as the collection company has 
suggested, via their on line system. But Mr H didnt do that and I therefore think VWFS  are 
being reasonable in charging him for the extended hire and need take no further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080856