K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that she was mis-sold  insurance  for her home, and that when Saga 
Services Limited discovered this they treated her unfairly and cancelled her insurance.  She 
doesnt think the £100 compensation Saga has offered  as compensation for her trouble is 
enough.
background
Mrs J contacted Saga about adding a newly bought holiday home  to her insurance. During 
the conversation  Mrs J said she lived on a farm that also provided camping and caravanning 
facilities for the general public. Saga said it was unaware of this and wanted  to check if it 
could provide cover for Mrs J as it didnt cover  business use.
Eventually it was decided that Saga  wouldnt continue cover, and Mrs J was given seven  
days to arrange  new insurance. She did that, but complained to Saga about how shed been  
treated and how much shed worried about  whether she was insured  or not.
Saga acknowledged  it had made mistakes when  it had sold the insurance  to Mrs J about 
eight months earlier. It said if it had checked properly  it would never  have provided cover  at 
all. So it refunded Mrs J any remaining premium and offered Mrs J £50 for the upset shed 
had. It later increased that offer to £100.
Mrs J brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  thought the compensation was about  
right for the upset  Mrs J experienced.  And he thought Sagas commitment to speak to the 
member of staff concerned about handling  difficult calls was an appropriate thing to do.
Mrs J doesnt think this is good enough. She says she only had a couple of days to re-
arrange cover as she was going on holiday and has probably paid too much for the new 
cover. She says the distress and inconvenience was awful,  and that £1,000 compensation is 
more appropriate.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint  in that Im not going to ask Saga to pay Mrs J more 
compensation than its already offered. Ill explain why.
Saga has acknowledged that it made  a mistake when it sold Mrs J the policy   it says it 
wouldnt have covered her at all if it had done things properly.
The normal  way to put things right when  a mistake has been made is for Saga to put Mrs J 
in the position shed  have  been if it hadnt  made  the mistake. In this case that would be that 
Mrs J got insurance elsewhere  as she now has. 
Sage has refunded any premium paid from the date it cancelled the policy  to the original end 
date. That seems appropriate. Before that it was insuring Mrs J  so she should  pay for that 
cover. And  as our investigator explained   if Mrs J had had to make  a claim, its likely  Saga  
Ref: DRN82077782would have had to meet that. So she was insured up to the date of cancellation.  Of course I 
cant be certain that is the case  because Mrs J didnt claim. But I cant  ask Saga to 
compensate Mrs J for something  that hasnt  happened.
Ive listened to two calls between Mrs J and the staff member shes  complained about. And I 
can hear how upset she became,  particularly in the second call. I think the member of staff 
did try to help Mrs J, but he was, unfortunately, having to give her news she didnt want to 
hear. I do understand Mrs Js feelings, but I think the situation itself contributed  to those  as 
well as the member of staff. I think Sagas commitment to talk to him about  handling calls 
like this is fair.
Mrs J says she only got a couple  of days to sort out new cover. I appreciate  she was going 
on holiday, but I dont think its fair to ask Saga to provide cover  for a longer period for that 
reason. And Saga couldnt help by, for instance, charging more for the insurance   because 
it simply didnt  provide the sort of cover Mrs J needed.
Mrs J also says she might have  paid more than she needed to for her new cover because  
she arranged it at short notice. I havent seen any evidence of that, and Im afraid  I think it 
was up to Mrs J to decide who to approach for the replacement insurance,  and the price 
shes paid isnt something Saga is responsible for.
Ive thought about the level of compensation Saga offered and if it was enough. I think  it 
was. Mrs J was clearly  very worried about  being insured properly, but this was for only a few 
days. Saga  had assured  her she was covered for a week, and Mrs J bought  alternate  cover 
within that time period. Im not going  to increase  the amount of compensation.
Finally Mrs J says she wants  to stop Saga treating other customers the way it has her. Im 
afraid I can only comment on the circumstances of this particular complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8207778