K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt  do enough to help her when she fell 
victim to a scam. She feels Barclays could have  done  more  to warn  her that she might not 
be paying a legitimate account. 
background
On 1 November  2018 Miss S made a payment of £1750 from her current  account to 
someone she thought  was the landlord  of a flat she wanted to rent. Unfortunately,  when she 
went to move into the flat a few days later, she discovered that she had been  dealing with a 
scammer.
Miss S contacted Barclays to tell them she had been the victim of a scam  and to ask them to 
help her get her money back.  Barclays  contacted  the scammers bank  straight away, but 
unfortunately they confirmed that all of Miss Ss money had been  withdrawn by the 
scammer. 
Miss S was unhappy  with how Barclays handled  things, so she referred her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, she explained to Miss S that she felt 
Barclays had done all they could to try and help, so she didnt think  they needed to do 
anything more.
Miss S disagreed; she thinks Barclays should  have been able to identify that the payment 
she made was out of character for her, and that it was being  made  to a suspicious sort code. 
She says if they had told her she was making a payment to a prepaid  card account then she 
would have realised  something was wrong and would not have made the payment
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Id like to start by saying  how sorry I am to hear that Miss S has been  a victim of this scam.  I 
appreciate that this kind of fraud  can have  a huge  impact, and will have  been  very frustrating 
and upsetting for her. But having though very carefully about whats  happened  here,  I think 
Barclays did act fairly  and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Miss Ss account.  And 
I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover the funds. I know  this will be very 
disappointing for Miss S, but with this in mind,  I dont think  I can fairly say Barclays should 
reimburse Miss S with the £1750  she lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  When Miss S 
made the payment, she didnt know she was dealing with a scammer,  so she sent the 
money in good  faith. This means that  at the time  she wanted the payment to go ahead  
Ref: DRN88343712and authorised it to be made. And I have taken that into account when deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
And a banks responsibility to make additional  checks is particularly important in light of the 
environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent years - 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In this case, I needed to decide whether Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  
with Miss S when she made the payment  of £1750,  or whether  it should have done more 
than it did.
But having  thought carefully about  how Miss S used her account I dont think  there  was 
anything sufficiently suspicious  or unusual about the payment that would have suggested  to 
Barclays that she was being scammed. Miss S had made this type of payment before, and 
while the amount  of the payment was higher than her general spending, I dont think  that in 
the overall context  of her account  activity  it was unusual or suspicious enough  for me to say 
that Barclays should have identified it as a potential scam payment. 
Ref: DRN88343713I note what Miss S has said about  this payment being to a prepaid card account. But I dont 
think it would  be fair for Barclays to presume that meant  this payment was a scam, while  
some prepaid accounts are used for fraud,  many  of them operate  completely legitimately. 
And so I wouldnt expect the type of account Miss S was paying  to have flagged as 
suspicious to Barclays. Particularly  where   as in Miss Ss situation   there is nothing else to 
suggest that the payment  made might be suspicious.  
So with all this in mind,  I dont think anything obvious about the payment would have 
indicated to Barclays that it wasnt legitimate. And on that basis,  I dont think  Barclays  did 
anything wrong  by following the instructions Miss S gave and sending  the money.
And once  Barclays were aware of the scam,  they acted quickly  to try and recover Miss Ss 
money from the scammers bank. Unfortunately, by that stage, all of Miss Ss money had 
gone.
Its very unfortunate  that Miss S has lost out, and I have huge sympathy for what  shes been  
through. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays should have 
done more to prevent Miss S losing her money. I cant hold Barclays  responsible for Miss S 
having fallen victim to a scam, and I think they did all they could to help her once they knew 
what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays  to compensate Miss S 
for her loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8834371