K821x#15complaint
Miss M and Mr N complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2005 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Miss M and Mr N complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought  the complaint should  
be upheld because the policy wasnt suitable  for them and that they hadnt  been given 
enough clear information  about  the policy to make  an informed decision. And if they had 
been given all the information,  our adjudicator  thought they wouldnt have bought  the policy.
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms and Mr Ns complaint for the same reason as our adjudicator  
suggested. I dont  think the policy was suitable for their needs and I dont think they were 
given enough  information about it.
Santander told us the PPI was sold to Miss M and Mr N during a meeting and that it was an 
advised sale. So the policy had to be suitable  for their needs and the information had to be 
fair, clear and not misleading for them to be able to make  an informed decision.
Miss M told us that at the time she applied for the PPI, she had two jobs  one as an 
accountant and another  as a Company Secretary  for a group of companies. This has been 
confirmed by official records  from Companies  House. The PPI only covered her and was 
only for unemployment cover.
I then looked at the PPI policy terms which were sold to them.  The policy  says it will pay out 
unemployment cover  if Miss M satisfied three  conditions; one of the conditions was You are 
entirely without work. So I think Miss M may have had to lose both jobs before she could 
claim on the policy for unemployment  cover.  It was important  for Miss M to know this 
because of the effect on her working arrangements.
Its not clear whether  Santander highlighted this policy term to Miss M and Mr N during the 
meeting when they bought the PPI or in the later documents  sent to her confirming the PPI 
sale. This is a significant failing in the sale. If this clause had been highlighted to them,  
I dont think they wouldve  bought  the policy. This means that I am going to uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN84244602Santander UK Plc should put Miss M and Mr N in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Miss M and Mr N the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss M and Mr N made  a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander UK Plc can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Miss M and Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8424460