K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC recorded arrears  on their 
mortgage account during the period when they were in a payment arrangement.  They  want  
this information  removed by Barclays.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Woolwich, the residential lending  division of Barclays.  
The monthly instalment  was £842. In early  2016 Mr M had some  medical  issues which  
resulted in him needing to be off work  for almost two years.  He discussed the situation with 
Barclays and in July 2016 an arrangement was put in place where Barclays agreed to accept 
a total monthly  payment of £440.08 per month, subject to review.
This arrangement stayed  in place until September 2017, when Mr and Mrs M sold their 
house and repaid the mortgage in full.
Mr and Mrs M are now in the position of being able to buy another property, but theyve been 
unable to get a mortgage because Barclays recorded arrears  on their mortgage account. 
Mr M, whos dealt  with the complaint throughout, is unhappy about this. He says that its 
unfair because he kept to the arrangement agreed  with Barclays. He also says that arrears  
werent reported every month, but only intermittently.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that throughout the period when the payment 
arrangement was in place, Barclays  sent letters explaining that any formal arrangement 
would be notified  to credit  reference agencies.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us. An investigator looked at the complaint  but didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. They say they were 
unaware of the impact  on their credit files until they came to apply for a mortgage on their 
new property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have some 
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs M; Im not upholding the complaint.
Ive looked at the letters Barclays sent Mr and Mrs M in relation to the payment arrangement 
and in relation  to the arrears that were accruing. Im satisfied  that it is clear  from these that 
Barclays explained that an arrangement to pay less than the current  monthly  payment would 
be recorded with credit reference agencies.  Barclays  also explained that arrears would be 
reported when  they were  equal to, or exceeded, two months mortgage payments. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M had other priorities which, understandably, took their attention  
away from reading these  letters. But Im satisfied they had the information from Barclays  
about how the bank would  report the payment arrangement and arrears.
In the circumstances, although I acknowledge  Mr and Mrs M kept to the arrangement,  I find 
Barclays has done nothing wrong  in reporting the arrears on their credit files.
Ref: DRN81270182I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for, and I am truly sorry if my 
decision adds to their distress.  Mr  and Mrs M are now in the position where they need a 
mortgage to complete a property which is being built for them, specially adapted for Mr M. I 
think they might find it helpful  to see a specialist mortgage broker about  their options. 
Mr and Mrs M can also write a letter of correction to the credit  reference agencies, giving an 
explanation of the circumstances which led them  to be in a payment arrangement. This will 
be attached to their credit  file and will be seen by any potential  lender undertaking a credit  
search. They can find out more information  about this from the credit reference  agencies 
websites.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8127018