K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the exchange  rate used  by HSBC UK Bank  Plc on a foreign currency 
transfer into his account.
background
Mr H contacted HSBC  and asked what exchange  rate they would apply if he transferred a 
sum in US Dollars into his Sterling account. He says they told him they wouldnt charge any 
fees or commission and that they would  use the spot rate at the time of the transaction.  He 
says they told him what the spot rate was at the time of the call. 
He says he then transferred  a relatively  small amount  of money  as a test, on or around the 
same day. He says the rate which was applied was higher than HSBC had indicated. He 
says they should have  told him that the rate they use would be higher than the spot rate. He 
says HSBC misled him by stating that the applicable rate would be the spot rate. And that 
this has prevented him from transferring a large amount of US Dollars  into his Sterling 
account. He also says he lost a small  amount  of money on the transfer of the trial amount.
Mr H complained to HSBC. They didnt uphold his complaint and said theyd converted his 
funds in line with their terms and conditions. They said the exchange  rates they use are 
variable rates and they convert  the payment into the account at the rate which  applies at the 
time they receive  the payment. Before the payment is received, they say they can only give 
an indication  of the rate because it could change before  the payment is received.
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response so he brought his complaint to this service. When  
our investigator looked into it, she thought HSBC had acted fairly. But Mr H didnt agree and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr H had with HSBC  before he made  the test transfer.  He explained  
that he wanted to transfer funds from his US stock broker. The HSBC  agent said he could 
give Mr H a rough estimate  of the exchange rate but the best people to ask would be the 
stock brokers themselves because they would give Mr H the exchange rate before making 
the transfer. Mr H said he was trying to make sure he didnt use the US stock brokers  
exchange rate and commission fee. He said he wanted the Dollars to leave the stock  broker 
in Dollars and for HSBC  to convert them  upon receipt.
The HSBC  agent  said he would tell Mr H roughly what our (that is, HSBCs) exchange rate 
was and went on to tell him how many pence  would  be credited to his account if one Dollar 
was transferred at that moment in time. He said the exchange rate was 0.7569. Mr H asked 
how many  Dollars that was to the Pound. The agent  asked  Mr H how much he was looking 
to transfer and said he would work out how much  would  be credited to Mr Hs account. Mr H 
then gave him a figure and the agent told him the Sterling amount which would credit his 
account if he transferred  that amount of Dollars at that moment. Mr H thanked  the agent and 
the call ended.
Ref: DRN82767292HSBCs terms  and conditions say they will convert foreign currency using the HSBC  
Exchange Rate at the time they receive the payment. In their final response letter, HSBC 
explained that their Exchange Rate is based on a Live Interbank  Market rate, to which they 
apply a retail margin.  I dont find this to be at odds with what Mr H was told on the phone.  
And I think it was clear from what the agent  said that the rate was variable and that the 
figures quoted  applied  at that moment in time.
Mr H says that the indicative rate quoted by HSBC matched very closely with the spot rate 
quoted in the wider market. He says that the rate then used for the transaction  was 
significantly different from the spot rate and so the rate quoted  was misleading. But the 
agent didnt mention the spot rate during the phone call. So, even if the rate quoted  at that 
time was very close to the spot rate which Mr H had seen  quoted  elsewhere, Im satisfied 
that HSBC didnt tell him they would  use the spot rate. They  told him what  their exchange 
rate was at that moment in time. And the agent didnt say anything about  commission.  So I 
dont think HSBC said anything misleading. And I think theyve acted in line with their terms 
and conditions. So I dont  think theyve acted unfairly here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8276729