K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out with a store card in October 2004. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs M mainly said that the policy was added to her store  card without her knowledge or 
consent. Mrs M told us that if shed  been  made aware of the policy  she wouldve declined it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs M to remember exactly what  was discussed  when  she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  this complaint just based on the way Mrs M told us she was sold PPI. I have 
to look at everything and decide what I think is most  likely.
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Ms completed  store card application.  Mrs M has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs M wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs M to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs M signed  the completed  application  so it seems  to me that she must have agreed with 
the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  she has forgotten  this now. 
On balance, I find that Mrs M was aware  the policy  was optional  and she chose to take it out.
Even though  no PPI recommendation was made  by FICL it still needed to make sure it gave  
Mrs M enough  clear information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M wouldve acted differently, and not bought  the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit  for as long as Mrs M was off work sick or if Mrs M lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work.
Ref: DRN88564402It doesnt look like she had significant  other  means she couldve  relied  on for very long if she 
wasnt working. Relying  on someone else to help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.  So 
I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.
 
It doesnt look as if Mrs M was affected by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So, 
I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Ms decision  to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs M clear  enough information about the costs  of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems 
to have wanted it at the time,  and been happy to pay to have it, even if shes  forgotten  this 
now. Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs M, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think shed 
still have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8856440