K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly  gave  him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr H 3 loans between December 2017 and April 2018.  A summary of Mr Hs 
lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 07/03/2018 28/03/2018 3 £200.00 £101.86
2 02/04/2018 15/07/2018 6 £400.00 £156.26
3 27/07/2018 Outstanding            12 £1000.00 £240.83
 
Mr H says that proportionate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided.  He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and that the loans  werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Hs employment  and says based on the information  it gathered  
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked  what  the loans were  for and Mr H gave 
reasons that didnt  include repaying other debts.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loans  1 and 2 shouldnt  have  
been provided. However, Mr Hs borrowing pattern and proportionate checking should  have  
alerted the business that Mr H was having problems managing his money and it shouldnt 
have given him loan 3. 
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning.  It said 
that it carried out proportionate and robust checking and took into account Mr Hs other short  
term lending when approving the final loan. It said that the loan was affordable and there  
was nothing to suggest that Mr H was in financial difficulty.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
H could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN81997802But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  evidence to say that loans one and 2 shouldnt  
have been granted. I have looked  at the information gathered, including income and credit 
checks and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender  should not have provided these 
loans to Mr H. The first loan was small and was repaid in full and on time. Although Mr H 
asked for an increased  amount for loan 2 a few days later I think it is reasonable this early in 
the lending relationship for the lender  to rely on what Mr H was saying about  his finances.
At the point of loan 3 I dont think it was reasonable for the lender to rely on what  Mr H was 
saying about his finances. Less than 2 weeks after loan 2 was repaid Mr H asked for a 
further loan for an increased amount of £1000 over a longer period. This committed  Mr H to 
a repayment of £240 for 12 months.  I agree with the adjudicator  that this should have alerted 
Mr Lender to the possibility that Mr H was having problems managing  his money  and 
couldnt repay what he had borrowed without borrowing again. Although the loan looked  
easily affordable  on the figures Mr H gave, it was clear that this was not the case as Mr 
Lender knew that Mr H was taking out short term loans  elsewhere. Mr Hs borrowing with Mr 
Lender was sequential and increasing.  I think that Mr Lender  should not have  given Mr H 
loan 3 because  Mr H wasnt responsibly managing his money and further  lending  was 
unsustainable. Mr H fell into difficulties  repaying this loan which further  suggests  that it was 
unaffordable for him.
Ref: DRN81997803I do not agree with Mr Lenders analysis that because  Mr H said he was not in financial 
difficulty and repaid his earlier loans on time that it was reasonable to lend. Mr Hs borrowing 
and repayment  pattern  was at odds with the information he was giving to Mr Lender and as a 
responsible lender I consider that Mr Lender  should  have  done more before granting loan 3.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender)
should:
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 3, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr H having made overpayments then these should be refunded  with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.
B.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated above  should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loan. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr H. However  if there  is still an outstanding 
balance then Mr Lender should  try to agree  an affordable  repayment  plan with Mr H.
C.Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
PDL Finance  Limited must  give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8199780