K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc applied unfair charges at the end of a hire 
agreement. She wants the charges waived.
background
Miss C tells us that she returned the vehicle  at the end of a three year hire period in what 
she thought was good condition. She says she wasnt originally notified about  all the 
damage - specifically a misaligned bumper. And she says that Hitachi had admitted some  of 
its original findings  had been  wrong and had reduced the charges by £175. She states that 
she doesnt think that the picture evidence is clear  enough. And says shes  spent  hundreds 
of pounds correcting  various areas on the vehicle.  Miss C also believes Hitachi shouldve  
made some allowance in respect of unused contract mileage allowance.
Hitachi told us that when Miss C had returned the vehicle  at the end of the hire period it had 
been inspected  to British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA)  fair wear and tear 
standards. It said it had reduced the original  sum by £175 as it accepted  damage  to a 
quarter panel  wasnt clearly identified. But it said it believed the remaining charge of £520 
had been fairly applied.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that the vehicle 
had been inspected in accordance with BVRLA  fair wear and tear guidelines.  And that shed 
seen photographs which, in her opinion, showed obvious damage. She said there was no 
provision to offset damage charges  where a vehicle  had been used for less than the 
contracted mileage.
Miss C didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Cs disappointment at receiving  an unexpectedly large bill for end of 
contract charges.  And I can see she feels shes been treated unfairly by Hitachi.
Wheres theres a dispute of fact Im required to reach my decision on a balance of 
probabilities. That is I decide whats the most  likely explanation to account for whats 
happened. And I take into account  relevant  industry  guidelines which in these circumstances 
include the fair wear  and tear guidelines issued by the BVRLA.  These provide a consistent  
standard against which vehicles can be assessed.  And theyre widely  used across  the 
industry where vehicles  may be subject to charges at the end of a financial agreement.
Ive also been  provided with good quality colour  images of the vehicle inspection.  Our 
adjudicator set out the details of the relevant specifications in her view so I neednt  repeat 
them here.  
Ref: DRN87936132I appreciate that Miss C told the vehicle inspector that shed had the vehicle touched up. 
From that I infer she was aware of the need to maintain the vehicle in good  condition. Whilst 
acknowledging this, I consider that the damage  for which charges are being applied is made 
out and exceeds the relevant guidelines.  And whilst  I dont know  where  Miss C had repairs 
carried out it seems the repairs werent  completed to the required BVRLA standards.  The 
photographs Ive seen depict the issues  identified and the inspection report  includes noting 
the misaligned bumper. I also take into account that BVRLA trained inspectors are regularly 
audited for quality assurance  purposes. So Im satisfied the inspection  was carried out 
properly.
Im aware Miss C thinks that Hitachi should  also take into account the fact that she didnt use 
all her contract miles allowance. However,  the terms and conditions dont make  any 
provision for any refund  or for any offset against other charges.
I understand that Miss C will be disappointed  but Ive reached the same  conclusion as our 
adjudicator and for similar reasons. I think Hitachi has dealt with the complaint fairly and the 
remaining charges  are justified in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the hire 
agreement. And theyve  been set at a level which is within the price range Id expect. So I 
shant be upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793613