K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1990. Mr W says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  detail available  about the sale. Mr W hasnt given us much detail 
about what happened. And HFC hasnt  been able to send us any evidence from the sale 
showing Mr W chose  to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed since the 
sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that HFC made Mr W think he had to have the PPI. 
So I think its likely it made it clear  to him that he had a choice about it, and that he chose  to 
take it.
HFC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide  if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information HFC gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But hes told us he wouldnt have  received any sick pay and he didnt have any other 
means he couldve used  to make his repayments  if he wasnt  earning. So the PPI would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong.
Mr W told us hed been in his job for around ten years at the time of the sale.  And, based on 
what he told us, it doesnt look like he wouldve been  affected by any of the likely exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr W later told us his employment circumstances were 
different. But he hasnt given us any more  detail on what they were, despite being  asked to 
do so. So I dont think theres enough  evidence  for me to say that his employment 
circumstances meant  the policy wouldnt have been useful for him.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr W off taking it out.
Which means HFC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But HFC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
HFC got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  HFC didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN84809242To put that right, HFC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HFC Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But HFC Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8480924