K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Mr W says American  Express Services  Europe Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
American Express had to make Mr W aware the PPI was optional  and gain his consent 
before adding it to his card. American  Express has sent us a copy of the application  form 
Mr W completed when  he applied  for his card. The form had a separate  section for PPI 
where the option to take the policy has been selected. The form has also been signed in 
agreement with the selections made on it. So I think American Express made it clear that 
Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
American Express didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information American Express gave  Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing what other means he had 
available for making  his repayments which included statutory sick pay, death in service  
cover, critical illness cover, and life cover   But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
and for longer than Mr Ws sick pay and provided cover for different circumstances than he 
already had cover for.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN84034222Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8403422