K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the way he was treated by American Express  Services  Europe Limited 
when making a credit card application  and the attitude of their staff. Hes also unhappy they 
are keeping data on him for seven years. Hed like them to delete all data they hold on him. 
background
In May 2018  Mr T applied  for an Amex  credit card after being told he had a 95% chance of 
being accepted. After  applying Amex contacted Mr T to advise him hed need  to provide 
identity documents  for him to progress with his application.
Mr T refused to provide this documentation   because he was worried  about identify fraud  
and asked for all his details to be removed from Amexs  systems. 
Amex responded  saying  that theyd requested additional documentation  because of their 
concerns about  identify  fraud. And because Mr T hadnt now provided these documents his 
application had been declined. Amex  further  explained that they are obliged to retain records 
related to credit card applications for a period of seven years.  
Mr T remained unhappy with Amexs response. He further complained  saying hed 
requested for his agreement to be cancelled within the 14 day cooling off period so why did 
Amex decline his application and damage  his credit rating. In response  Amex explained that 
they should have informed Mr T his application  had been cancelled rather  than declined  and 
the result  of the application doesnt have any impact on his credit rating. But, Amex  
confirmed they wouldnt be removing his data as they had a responsibility to follow their 
internal guidelines. 
In a follow up letter Amex  spelt Mr Ts name  incorrectly  Mr T complained  to Amex again 
about this. Amex apologised for spelling Mr Ts name incorrectly  but didnt  change  their 
position on his other  complaint points. 
As Mr T remained  unhappy he complained to our service.  
Our investigator looked at Mr Ts complaint and didnt think that Amex needed to do 
anymore. She explained  that Amex are entitled to ask for more information  to protect against 
identity fraud, she thought  it was fair they held on to his data and Amex had accepted they 
made an error in the spelling of his name  but they hadnt meant to cause any offence. 
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators opinion.  He said Amex provided  poor and rude service to 
him  and the fact they got his name incorrect then later corrected it demonstrates  they did it 
deliberately. Mr T said the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO)  had informed him Amex  
were only entitled  to hold information  for six years  and not the seven  which Amex are 
holding his data for. He disputed Amex cancelled  his application and said he withdrew it prior to 
this. 
As Mr T didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN88122002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator   for the same reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Ive thought about whether its reasonable for Amex to ask Mr T for identification documents 
before approving his application. And I think it was. I say this as Amex  has a responsibility to 
ensure that they verify the identity of applicants before providing them with credit. Mr T  as 
he was entitled  to do so  decided not to provide these documents and Amex cancelled his 
application. I understand that Mr T says he requested  to withdraw  his application before this 
occurred but Ive not seen  any evidence of this. 
Mr T was unhappy that Amex initially advised  him that his application had been  declined and 
was concerned this would negatively impact on his credit rating, but they later confirmed the 
application had in fact been  cancelled. Amex advised him that this wouldnt have a negative  
impact  and they didnt  report  applications  of this type to credit  reference agencies. Ive not 
seen any evidence from Mr T that his credit  rating  has been negatively  impacted by the 
application. So I cant say that Amex have  done  anything wrong here.  
Ive considered whether its reasonable for Amex to hold Mr Ts data for seven years  after 
his application.  Mr T argues that they are only entitled to hold this for six years. Ive looked at 
the privacy policy  which  is attached  the Mr Ts credit card application  and a copy  of Amexs 
policy regarding retention of data.  And based  on these Im satisfied Amex are entitled  to hold 
Mr Ts data for this period of time. If Mr T is unhappy  with how Amex utilise  his data during 
this time then it would  be better for him to complain  to the regulator for data protection  the 
ICOs office.  
Amex have accepted that they spelt Mr Ts name incorrectly when  sending  him a letter. Ive 
thought about the impact of this on Mr T  and the fact that Amex have already offered him 
an apology  and I dont think that any further  compensation  is required here.  
In conclusion I dont  think Amex need to do anymore here.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812200