K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the difficulties Mr J had when he tried to repay their mortgage 
with National Westminster  Bank Plc.
background
In what follows, I summarise  events in rather less detail that theyve been  presented.  No 
discourtesy is intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide. I focus on 
what I think is material to the outcome of the complaint.
Im aware that Mr J has previously  made  other complaints against NatWest but in this 
decision, Im dealing with what happened  on 1 December 2018,  when Mr J phoned NatWest 
in order to repay his and Mrs Js mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs J used three credit cards to make the payment. The first payment was made  
successfully, the second  payment was successful  on the second  attempt and the third 
payment was declined three times.  
Mr J says that NatWest initially said it must  be a problem with their cards but it then said that 
there was a problem  with the banks payment system. NatWest said it would take the 
payment manually but then terminated the call, in error.  
NatWest didnt call Mr J back, as not all of its systems had the correct  contact  details. Mr J 
went on to make the payment, which the bank  processed manually and the mortgage  was 
repaid. 
Mr and Mrs J say that they were embarrassed  and distressed when their payments were 
declined. They also say that NatWests failure  to update their contact details is a breach of 
the Data Protection Act. Mr and Mrs J werent  happy with NatWests  handling  of their 
complaint. They want compensation for their time and distress. 
Our adjudicator said that Mr J had received poor service. He thought that it was sufficient 
that NatWest had apologised, so he didnt recommend that it did any more. Mr J didnt agree 
with the adjudicator. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint  was 
passed to me, on ombudsman, to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The powers of the Financial Ombudsman  Service are set out in our rules, known as the 
DISP Rules. These come  from the Financial Conduct Authority and, ultimately,  from the 
Financial Services and Markets Act. Rule 2.3.1  sets out the matters that we can investigate 
and doesnt include  complaint handling by banks. So, I cant consider the part of 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  about how the bank handled their complaint. I realise they will be 
disappointed by this but I cant  act outside my legal powers.
Ref: DRN86545802Its common ground that there were difficulties when Mr and Mrs J repaid  the mortgage. I 
dont doubt that was frustrating but I dont  think  what  happened amounted to more than a 
minor inconvenience. The problem with the payment was put right in a very small time-frame  
and the mortgage was repaid, as intended.  I accept that it was annoying when NatWest  
didnt call Mr J back but the effect  of that was minimal. 
Considering everything, I think it was sufficient here for NatWest to apologise, which it did 
several times in its final response letters to Mr J. I dont think that there  are grounds on 
which to direct NatWest to do any more than its already done.
As the adjudicator has already explained, our role isnt to decide  if a business has breached  
data protection  laws.  Mr and Mrs J can contact  the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
if they are concerned  about the way NatWest handled their personal information. The link to 
their website is: https://ico.org.uk/make-a-complaint/
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs J but for the reasons Ive set out above,  my final decision 
is that I dont uphold their complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8654580