K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a joint residential  mortgage that Mr and Mrs T have  with Barclays  
Bank UK PLC .At its highest level, the complaint is that Barclays hasnt treated them fairly in 
its approach to dealing with arrears  that have  accrued on the mortgage due to financial 
hardship caused by a combination of ill health  and loss of employment.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex,  and the file of 
documents runs to over 2,500  pages. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts 
of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case  than others. There  is also a lot of 
duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using my own words and rounding  
some of the figures  involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
One reason I have  left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer 
when my decision is published. Another reason is because much  of the material  on file 
relates to several  other complaints that weve received from Mr and/or Mrs T, which our rules 
require us to deal with separately. 
So that there should be no ambiguity, this decision  is not about the sale of Mr and Mrs Ts 
joint residential mortgage, nor about  Mr Ts various individual buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages. 
Its solely about how Barclays has treated Mr and Mrs T since  they fell behind with their 
payments on the joint residential mortgage.  Thats not say I wont reference  events relating 
to the BTLs, but if I do, it will be for context  only.  
This complaint flows  from a final response Barclays issued to Mr and Mrs T in March 2018, 
about the mortgage on their home.  Mr and Mrs T took this mortgage out in 2006; the 
mortgage was provided by a predecessor lender which transferred its mortgage business to 
Barclays in 2012.  Separately, Mr T has also maintained a portfolio of BTL properties, with 
mortgages also provided by Barclays under its Woolwich brand.
In 2017, Mr T became  unemployed, and this inevitably  put a strain on their finances. For a 
spell, they prioritised  their home over the BTLs,  using  the rental income to pay the residential  
mortgage first. Mr T also disposed of one of his BTLs during 2018, which released some 
equity to help in the short term. But over time,  arrears have accrued on the remaining BTL 
mortgages as well as the residential mortgage.  This resulted in Barclays  deciding to appoint  
Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers  to manage the BTL properties; thus removing the 
rental income from Mr Ts control. 
This decision, and the actions of the Receivers, was part of the initial  narrative Mr and Mrs T 
brought to this complaint,  but as the BTLs are owned solely by Mr T, weve set up a separate  
Ref: DRN87003382complaint to address them. Weve done  much the same with another issue  about  the joint 
residential mortgage arising from a subject access request made on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf 
by a claims management company. This was pursuant  to a claim that the mortgage had 
been mis-sold at the outset in 2006.
Getting back to the residential  mortgage, a payment arrangement was negotiated  in the 
spring of 2018,  and ran for three  months.  Other than that, however, the parties havent been 
able to agree a way forward. Mr and Mrs T put this down  to multiple failures  on Barclays 
part. These include not providing  a consistent point of contact and absence of proper liaison  
and disclosure between  relevant  departments  handling the residential  mortgage and the 
BTLs. 
Mr and Mrs T feel that theyve been  pushed  around in circles ever since with no one getting 
hold of the problem and coming up with a solution. Their levels of frustration and stress have 
been exacerbated by the fact that both have  underlying health problems. I dont disclose the 
details here out of respect for Mr and Mrs Ts privacy. Mrs T has continued to work but Mr T 
has found it very difficult to secure  new employment.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Barclays was materially at fault in its handling of the 
arrears on the residential mortgage, and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs T have  asked  that it be referred  to an ombudsman for review.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them.
In that regard, whilst the case  has been with us, Mr T expressed  some dismay at the actions 
of the LPA Receivers appointed by Barclays to manage his BTLs. I wont  be addressing that 
issue; Ive already made clear the extent of my remit to deal with this complaint. Id merely 
add, for information only, that once appointed, LPA Receivers act for the borrower, not the 
lender, so their actions  dont fall within the scope of our service in any event.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said in the background, If I dont  
Ref: DRN87003383comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  
context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide whats  fair in the round.
Ill start with a general point. Having no regulatory  function means its not up to me to tell 
Barclays how it should design and run its arrears  management function. Barclays has set 
that function up to be phone -based, supported by field agents  visits in situations where it 
considers face-to-face  discussions  are required  or desirable. Barclays  hasnt set its system 
up to have individual dedicated case-owners. I appreciate why Mr and Mrs T might prefer  
that, but Barclays doesnt have to make bespoke  arrangements  for Mr and Mrs T.
Turning to the case itself,  amongst the steps  Mr and Mrs T have said Barclays  should  have  
considered taking to help them are:
adding the arrears to the main balance; i.e. capitalising the arrears; 
agreeing a lower  rate; and
extending the term.
Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided;  the two things arent the 
same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering  help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations  where it can be seen their situation  is likely to 
improve. 
The dilemma  here is that Mr and Mrs Ts difficulty in getting control  of the arrears  on their 
residential mortgage has been  anything  but temporary. The pressure to do so must be 
immense for Mr and Mrs T; of that I am in no doubt. But my impartiality means I must also 
have regard for Barclays point of view. 
Capitalisation of arrears is a concession, and an onerous one at that. It permanently 
increases the mortgage balance by the amount of the arrears, and commits the borrower  to 
repaying that higher balance over the mortgage term, with all the extra interest  that goes 
with it. That requires a higher contractual  monthly  payment  than the consumers are already, 
by definition, struggling to pay.  
For that reason,  lenders tend to have strict qualifying criteria;  as an example,  its not 
untypical for borrowers to be required to pay the existing  full contractual  payment in full and 
on time for a minimum of twelve consecutive months. Even if that is achieved, it doesnt 
guarantee capitalisation will be approved; its merely  a pre-condition before lenders will even 
consider it.
As far as a lower rate is concerned, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a 
lower rate; lenders have  to consider  context  and individual circumstances  in all cases. Most 
lenders, when asked  to provide a new rate to a borrower with an arrears history, require the 
arrears to be cleared  in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears -free for a 
minimum period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal.  If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment  under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra  amount being  
Ref: DRN87003384added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting 
on an arrears-free period  before considering a new rate deal.
All that leaves is a term extension; that helps in the short-term, because it makes  the 
monthly payment  lower  and theoretically more affordable. But the trade-off for that is that the 
loan is repaid more  slowly, and attracts more interest as a result,  meaning  the lifetime  cost of 
the mortgage is substantially higher. So lenders tend not to agree term extensions  lightly,  
and will only do if theyre satisfied that the resulting lower payment will itself be affordable.
Whatever shortcomings Mr and Mrs T have perceived about Barclays  arrears management 
and communication  systems (and I do appreciate  the sense of frustration they feel) the 
underlying difficulty  for them is that theyve never got themselves to a point where  any of the 
afore-mentioned forbearance options were feasible options. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs T havent  
been able to persuade  Barclays that they have a realistic and affordable  plan for getting  on 
top of their arrears. The three-month plan agreed  in 2018 was only ever intended  to be a 
short-term arrangement in the hope  that Mr and Mrs Ts situation might  improve,  but it 
hasnt.
I appreciate there are reasons for that, but it isnt appropriate for me to form my own 
judgement on what  an affordable  and/or  viable  payment plan should be, and impose  it on 
Barclays (or on Mr and Mrs T for that matter). Its not my role to analyse  Mr and Mrs Ts 
finances and decide how likely it is that they can afford to pay Barclays a particular  sum 
each month  to clear  the arrears in a realistic timescale. That is, and must always  remain,  for 
Barclays commercial judgement to decide. 
At one stage, Mr T says it is impossible that he and Mrs T might lose their home over the 
arrears. The prospect of losing ones home  is a horrible one, and I am not unsympathetic 
towards the situation Mr and Mrs T find themselves in. But however unwelcome it might  be, 
losing ones home due to mortgage arrears is not an impossibility,  and nor is it something 
that I can say is inherently unfair. That may be an uncomfortable message for Mr and Mrs T 
to hear,  but not every arrears situation  is readily resolvable, and it isnt necessarily a 
regulatory failing on a lenders part if a solution that suits all parties isnt found.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Barclays in a final decision on 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, regardless of their wider  situation. If that eventually leads to court  
action, that may well be unwelcome  to Mr and Mrs T but in all the circumstances I cant say 
its unfair. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the determination  with which  Mr and Mrs T 
have brought  the complaint. They see error  or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank 
and its representatives  have done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. Its has manifested itself in a number of new complaints  being  set 
up to look into events  that have happened  since this complaint started.  
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
Ref: DRN87003385to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.  Having  done  
so, I cant find in Mr and Mrs Ts favour,  however much they think I should.
Mr and Mrs T dont  have  to accept my conclusions,  and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ts right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it. They 
wouldnt necessarily have  to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event Barclays was to take possession proceedings, Mr and Mrs T can, if they wish, 
ask the court  to consider all of the arguments  theyve  presented  here as part of their 
defence. There  would  then be an opportunity for the court to decide  whether, in all those 
circumstances, it would  be fair to give possession of the mortgaged property to Barclays.
For completeness, and to be clear,  Im not saying Barclays  should or will take legal action.  
Im merely reminding Mr and Mrs T that it can. There are new circumstances  in play as a 
result of the unprecedented  effects of the worldwide pandemic, and lenders have to respond  
fairly to the current situations their borrowers present them with. My decision here has not 
considered what  is happening now; it has only considered what happened up to March  2019 
when Barclays issued  its final response referring Mr and Mrs T to us.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Barclays Bank UK PLC. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8700338