complaint
Miss H complains that Insure Group  Limited should  refund  payments  of premium under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Miss H took out a policy in June 2016.  It included repairs of her central  heating  boiler  and an 
annual service. She agreed  to pay a yearly premium of £198.00  by monthly  instalments of 
£16.50.
Where I refer to Insure Group I include its call-handlers and others for whose actions I hold it 
responsible.
In March 2019 Miss H complained that she had cancelled the agreement  from June  2017.  As 
Insure Group had continued to take monthly  payments - she asked it to refund her.
On 1 April 2019,  Insure Group said it would refund £72.00 for each of two annual boiler 
services it hadnt done.
In its final response on about  10 April 2019,  Insure  Group referred to the policy  years 
commencing June 2017 and June 2018. For the year from June 2017 it said it would refund
£72.00 for the boiler service it hadnt done  in that year. For the policy year June 2018 to 
June 2019 Miss H had paid ten out of twelve instalments. So Insure  Group offered two 
alternatives. It offered a pro-rata refund (which I think  meant ten twelfths  of £72.00). 
Alternatively it offered  to do a service  if Miss H paid the two remaining instalments.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Miss H was likely  to have cancelled her policy at renewal. She recommended that Insure  
Group should:
1.refund  the premiums  taken since June 2017  to March 2019;  and
2.  pay 8% simple interest.
K800x#10
Ref: DRN8598663K820x#14my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss H 
and to Insure Group on 6 August 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Insure Group had been taking payments each month. No doubt  they showed  up on 
Miss Hs account statements. And she hadnt explained why  if shed  rung to 
cancel - she didnt notice and complain about the payments until March  2019.
Whilst she was dissatisfied in January 2017, I wasnt minded to find that anything  
prompted Miss H to ring to cancel the policy before she stopped her payments  in 
March 2019.
Therefore I didnt  find it fair and reasonable to order a refund of the instalments of 
premium.
Subject to any further information from Miss H or from Insure Group , my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt  minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct Insure Group  
Limited to do anything  further in response to this complaint.
Insure Group hasnt  responded  to the provisional  decision.
Miss H disagrees with the provisional  decision.  She says, in summary, that:
Her boiler was only one year old when taking out the insurance (this was mentioned  
in the letter  when escalating her complaint to the CEO).  When  applying for the 
insurance she stipulated that her annual service was due in November/December  to 
ensure the warranty  was upheld.
She doesnt have  any further boiler insurance as it is currently under warranty (it 
came with 7 year warranty on the condition that it is annually  serviced).
The price of the insurance incorporates the costs  of the annual boiler service which 
was not performed for 2 years  so the boiler service isnt an ancillary by-product but a 
service she paid for and wasnt supplied.
She has numerous direct debits  and standard orders; unfortunately they are not 
always easily identifiable due to the name not always being the same as the 
company name. Due to this and the relatively  low value  it was over looked.
It was brought  to her attention that she was still paying for this cancelled policy when  
the insurer contacted her as they didnt  have all the information they need to process  
her direct  debit  shes surprised they didnt identify this call when investigating the 
complaint. The change in her direct debit details possibly occurred when her bank 
had fraudulent activity.
She did not receive any annual renewal reminders (which  is a legal obligation)   she 
believes the insurer cannot prove  that the mail merge was processed.  It would make 
no sense for her to continue with a policy she didnt  need  when not receiving the 
service that she did need. 
She has no assurance from the insurer that 100% of calls are recorded a 100%  of 
the time and stored a 100% of the time. She has no confidence in their processes.  
She has demonstrated on several occasions  that the insurer does not have sufficient 
process and policies in place to which she has now become a victim  too. 
She doesnt believe she should pay for a service  that was not provided. 
She doesnt believe she should pay for an insurance policy that was cancelled.
Ref: DRN85986633She has attached  her annual service log
The fault is clearly  with the insurer.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Miss H had a boiler  that was quite new when she took out the policy  in June 
2016. I have no reason  to doubt  her statement that the boiler had a seven-year warranty, 
provided that it was serviced yearly.
The annual boiler services were described  in the policy terms as non-insurance services. 
And the Financial Ombudsman Service can only deal with complaints about  regulated  
activities, such as insurance,  or about activities ancillary to regulated  activities.
But Miss Hs complaint is that she had cancelled the insurance  policy  for the years  from 
June 2017 and June 2018. So I dont think it makes any difference whether the annual 
services were ancillary to the insurance  policy.
The policy terms said that annual services  would usually be done in the summer  months.  
But I accept  that Miss H thought the annual  boiler  service was due in about  December 2016 
and she complained before it was done  in January 2017. So the relevant point is that 
rightly or wrongly - she felt dissatisfied  about  the annual service in that year.
But the policy also provided cover  in the event that the boiler broke down.  And in any event I 
think the real question isnt what Miss H felt but what she did.
I think she is saying  that  despite  not receiving a renewal reminder  she rang to cancel  
the policy in about June  2017.
A renewal letter is a routine requirement.  And in its final response letter, a representative of
Insure Group said the following:
I have  searched  our mail merge system  and can confirm that renewal invitations 
were sent to you in the post on 17/05/2017 and 23/05/2018, which included a copy  
of your schedule, the cost and what is covered  under  your policy .
So I find it more  likely than not that Insure Group  sent the renewal reminder  in about June
2017. But thats not to say that Miss H received it. As there may have been a problem 
with delivery, Im prepared to accept her statement that she didnt  receive it.
But if she didnt  receive  the reminder  then Miss H mightve explained what  else prompted her 
to ring and cancel the policy. And neither  she nor Insure Group has any record of such  a call.
And Ive looked  at her later emails. On 1 April 2019 her email  included the following:
Due  the service I received with the attempt to arrange a boiler  service  I decided 
not to renew the policy  after the first year, it likely  I would  have cancelled  this by 
phone
Ref: DRN85986634Ive added the underling  of the words I find a bit tentative. Later Miss H became more 
certain that she had cancelled by telephone.
I accept that Insure Group didnt do an annual boiler service after January 2017.  Miss H 
says that she paid an alternative company to do two boiler services. She has sent us a 
copy of her service book, showing a service  in November 2017.  Miss H has said she didnt 
have any boiler  breakdown cover.
As with the renewal  reminder in about  June 2017, I find it more likely than not that Insure 
Group sent the renewal reminder in about  June 2018. It wouldve been unlucky to have 
delivery problems  two years running.  But Im prepared  to accept Miss Hs statement that 
she didnt receive  the 2018 reminder.
The service  book also shows a service in November 2018. And she has said she didnt 
have any boiler  breakdown cover.
Insure Group had been taking payments each month. No doubt  they showed  up on 
Miss Hs account statements. And she says that  although shed rung to cancel - she didnt 
notice and complain  about the payments until March 2019.
She was dissatisfied  in January 2017. And, in response to the provisional  decision she 
has suggested that in early  2019 she had changed her direct debits as a result  of 
fraudulent activity. I accept that Insure Group  contacted her to chase payment.
However I dont find that anything prompted Miss H to ring to cancel  the policy before she 
stopped her payments in March 2019. Im not persuaded that she did cancel the policy  
from June 2017.  Therefore  I dont find it fair and reasonable to order a refund of the 
instalments of premium.
As it was in a final response letter,  I expect Insure Group to keep  open  the offer to make 
refunds for the annual services it didnt provide in the policy years commencing June 
2017 and June 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
dont direct Insure Group  Limited  to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8598663