K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to Mrs W when she was 
taking out a Marks & Spencer account  card in 1991.  A company called Allianz Insurance plc 
is now responsible  for these types of sale, so Ill be referring to Allianz throughout this 
decision.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  Mrs W 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W says she cant  remember much about the sale which isnt that surprising given  it was 
over 27 years ago. But Ive seen the original application form she used to set up her 
account. There was a section on the form which was about PPI and there was a box to tick 
if it was something that Mrs W wanted to have. On Mrs Ws form, I can see the box was 
ticked. She also signed the application form at the bottom of the page. 
So I think Mrs W would have been  able to see the policy  was optional and that she didnt 
need to buy it if she didnt want to. I therefore  think she consented  to the PPI.
I dont think this was an advised  sale because I havent seen any of the type of paperwork  
we associate with advised sales. So I think Mrs Ws application form was filled out and then 
sent off to be processed, on a non-advised basis. This corresponds with many similar cases  
Ive seen.
This means  it was for Mrs W to decide  for herself whether the PPI was right for her. She still 
had a right to be given  information that was clear so she could make an informed decision 
about what she wanted to do.
Obviously all this happened  a very long time ago and I cant say Mrs W was told everything 
she should have  been. And I can see ways in which the form could have  been  set out more 
clearly. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall decision, because  I think Mrs W would 
have probably  still taken out the cover.
This is because I think she could see the policy  wasnt something she needed  to buy. I also 
think she was eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of the main exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. I can see the cost was disclosed on the form at the point 
where she was asked to make her choice. And at 64p for every £100 outstanding on her 
card account, I think the PPI was probably affordable  for her.
I think the benefits on this PPI compared well with other PPI policies  Ive seen in that Mrs W 
could have had her balance reduced  by 15% each month if shed needed to claim.  This 
Ref: DRN85567972could have continued until the balance  was paid off. So I think  the policy  was of use to her 
and as a non-advised sale, Im afraid Mrs W made her own decision about  whether or not to 
add the cover.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W, but I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint and I dont  direct Allianz Insurance plc to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8556797