K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the way that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) dealt with her claim for 
impact damage to her house.
background
Miss F made  a claim to UKI following  a car driving  into the wall of her house. This was at the 
end of October 2017. UKI appointed loss adjusters who arranged a survey  of the damage.  
Subsequently contractors  were appointed to review the work that needed to be done, which 
included repairs to the lower brickwork and to the render. There  was then some  delay  whilst  
the contractors and the loss adjusters tried to sort out what  the type and colour the render 
was. The contractors had appointed a plastering  company to quote for and deal with the 
render but by the end of January that company had decided that the job was too big for them 
and withdrew.
UKIs contractors and loss adjusters made efforts to get alternative quotes. The contractors 
(plastering company)  had  advised that a structural survey would be needed in January to 
report on the condition  of the property  underneath the render but it doesnt appear that any 
effort was made to get one. Miss F was also making an application for re-mortgage  and she 
asked about a structural engineers report in connection with this. She was told that an 
engineer wouldnt  be appointed.
UKIs contractors finally managed to appoint a firm who could do the work. They  attended at 
the house on 14 May (a day earlier than had been  agreed, causing Miss F some 
annoyance). When those  builders attended they told Miss F they had only been instructed to 
repair the brickwork and fill the cracks. They  hadnt had any instructions  to remove damaged 
render, but they agreed that it needed doing  to see what  underlying  damage  there  might  be. 
They temporarily filled the cracks and left. Then a structural  engineer  was appointed who 
attended on 24 May 2018.
Miss F said she was angered and frustrated by all the delays and having  to do chasing up. 
She also said that in her application for a re-mortgage which  she had to complete by mid-
June to take advantage  of beneficial rates, the value of her property was downgraded by 
£5,000. This was to take account of the fact that the repairs hadnt been  completed.  She 
said shed not yet actually made a financial loss but felt it would have a long term effect on 
her borrowing to value  ratio which in turn would mean she would  take longer to work her way 
down to lower interest rates.
After she made a formal  complaint to UKI it agreed that its service wasnt  up to standard  and 
to pay compensation  of £700. Miss F was disappointed with the very brief response  to her 
detailed complaint and felt that the compensation offered wasnt  sufficient to reflect the 
problems caused  to her in the course  of the claim.
Ref: DRN84929762On referral to this service  our investigator  agreed  that there were delays and a poor service 
provided by UKI. She thought that the compensation paid was reasonable. She didnt think 
that any further compensation was due because of Miss Fs issues  over her mortgage.
Miss F disagreed and pointed out that as of November  the repairs were still continuing and 
were costing much more than £5,000.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
I should advise  that I can only consider matters up until UKIs  letter  of 3 August 2018. I 
understand that the repairs have continued  since then. But if Miss F has any other issues  
with UKI since the said letter she should  raise a further complaint with it.
the final response letter
Miss F has issues  with the letter. She feels it is too brief and generic,  and didnt answer her 
detailed complaints. Whilst that may well be the case, I only have power to consider the 
regulated activity carried out here by UKI. And that is its handling of her claim.  Complaints  
handling in itself isnt a regulated activity so I dont have the power to consider the letter in 
itself or UKI's complaints handling procedure  in relation to Miss Fs complaint. As Ive said I 
can consider the way it handed her claim and the compensation  it paid.
delays
This claim  started  at the end of October 2017. It actually took nearly  seven months before 
any work was due to start at the property. By all accounts that is a long time to just get 
started on what should have been a straightforward  job. It obviously wasnt helped by one 
contractor deciding they couldnt  do the job after three months. But ultimately  UKI has to 
take responsibility for its contractors. And reading through  the papers and UKIs timeline it 
does appear that there were a number of delays here and there  of a week,  two weeks, four 
weeks, which all add up.
It does also look like UKI couldnt decide how to progress  with the repair. It was aware  from 
the start of the job, reinforced by the contractors comments  in January (when  it decided  the 
job was too big) that the damaged render would need removing. And that it was 
recommended that an engineer would have to look at the structure behind the render. But in 
early May Miss F was told an engineer wouldnt be appointed. And the contractors who 
came out subsequently  had no instruction regarding the removal of render. But then they 
could only do a temporary repair as it was decided  a structural engineer  was needed  after 
all. That engineer finally attended on 24 May.
So the effect of slow progress on the loss adjusters part, difficulties over contractors and 
indecision as to how to carry out repairs meant that a job that should  have taken  a few days  
took over seven months to get to the point  of deciding  how to progress it. I think that was 
Ref: DRN84929763unacceptable and as UKI said fell well below  the standard of service  Miss F should have 
expected.
failure to communicate
I think its clear  from Miss Fs notes, UKIs file and the email exchanges between them, that 
Miss F had to do a lot of chasing up. For example she had to chase up the loss adjusters 
and repeatedly phoned them for updates. On a number of occasions she didnt receive call 
backs. Eventually she was copied in on an email exchange showing that the contractors had 
been trying  to find out from the original developers the type and colour  of the render.
After the plastering  company said it couldnt do the job, Miss F had similar experiences with 
the contractors, chasing  them up several  times  in February and March. Eventually she was 
told that another contractor had been  found to do the job.
I appreciate that its sometimes difficult to keep updating the customer when there's  nothing  
to report. But I think  more could have been  done to keep Miss F updated  and the impression 
given is that whilst the loss adjusters were attempting to progress the matter (albeit slowly at 
times) they didnt  report back  to Miss F until shed prompted them a  number of times.
turning up on the wrong day
Miss F was advised that the contractors would be arriving on 14 May. She specifically asked 
that this be put back for a day as she would  be returning from a shift on that day. She 
received a reply  to confirm this. So she was upset  to find the builders turned up on 14 May, 
waking her up. I can see that this would have been annoying and upsetting  for her, 
especially as she then had to deal with the builders not being given proper instructions.
problems over the re-mortgage
Miss F says that she had every intention of moving home before the claim.  She says she 
decided, because of the ongoing  repairs, to re-mortgage instead. She needed to apply by 
mid-June 2018  or she wouldve incurred further  costs. She was told initially that her lender 
required a structural engineers report,  hence  her anxiety to obtain one. But it did accept the 
surveyors report, so Miss F was able to proceed with her re-mortgage in time.
However because  of the delay in having the property repaired,  Miss F had to accept  a 
valuation of the property which was £5,000 less than if the proper had been fully repaired.  
She has clarified that, although she hasnt at present made any financial  loss, it does mean  
that the loan to value ratio is higher than it should have been. This means  that in future it will 
take longer for her to work her way down into lower interest rate brackets.
Miss F has further  pointed  out that if shed been able to move, she might  well have been 
able to take advantage  of a lower  priced housing market. Once  the repairs are completed 
she could be at a disadvantage.
I understand that Miss F wants these  matters taken into account.  I acknowledge that she 
was caused some anxiety  over her mortgage application and in having to accept a lower 
valuation.
But as for financial  losses these seem to me to speculative and we cant award 
compensation for what might happen To take her point about moving, I have no idea about 
Ref: DRN84929764how the housing  market will move  in the future.  And Ive noted  that the repairs were  ongoing, 
at least when she last contacted us. I dont know if thats the fault of UKI or because the 
repairs were just a lot more extensive  than originally thought. In any case  as Ive said if there  
are issues  with that Miss F can raise them as a new complaint with UKI.
As for the re-mortgage,  if the delay in repair has caused there  to be a higher loan to value 
ratio there may be some sort of possibility of a loss some time in the future if Miss F takes  
longer to get her loan down below  a certain  percentage of the value. But that depends  on a 
number of factors  her lender may well be prepared to adjust the original valuation once the 
repairs are completed.  And we dont know what rates that lender may be offering in future, or 
if Miss F will be staying  with that lender. Also given  that she had originally intended to move  
she may well decide  to do so. My point is that I cant make  an award for a speculative  loss 
and there  are too many other factors involved  here for me to say that Miss F is likely  to make 
any loss.
compensation
I bear in mind that the £700 paid concerns matters that arose up until the August 2018 final 
response letter. As Ive outlined above, Miss F was subjected to delays. The repairs  could 
have been sorted out within a month or two but seven months later were  still ongoing. During  
that time she had to do a lot of chasing  up. Also UKI or its contractors/loss adjusters failed to 
ensure proper instructions were given and Miss F then had to accept a lower  valuation for 
her mortgage. Nevertheless I do think that a payment of £700  compensation is fair and 
reasonable. This reflects substantial inconvenience  and distress  caused but takes  into 
account awards we have  made in similar  cases.
my final decision
In light of the compensation already paid, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8492976