K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited declined her home insurance 
claim for theft.  She also complains that it invoked the fraud  condition  on her policy, placing a 
fraud marker  against her name, and that it cancelled  her policy.
background
Miss L took out home  insurance with Lloyds in January 2017.  In July 2018  Miss Ls partner, 
Mr M, contacted Lloyds to say that their garage had been broken into the night before and 
his power tools had been stolen. Lloyds asked Mr M if the stolen  tools were used for 
business purposes, every day. Mr M said they were. He also said there was additional cover 
on the policy for the tools. Mr M said he was a self-employed carpenter and that he loaded  
and unloaded his van every night  and morning into the garage.  
Later the same day Lloyds spoke to Miss L, as the sole policyholder, to get her authority to 
speak directly to Mr M. During  the call Lloyds said to Miss L that it had spoken to Mr M and 
hed advised he was self-employed and that all the tools stolen from the garage were  used 
for business purposes. Lloyds asked  Miss L if that was correct and she confirmed it was. 
During the same call Lloyds advised Miss L that under the terms of its home insurance policy 
it didnt cover items used  or held for business purposes. Miss L told Lloyds that she paid 
extra for the additional cover on the policy so the tools were insured. She said she had 
£5,000 cover for the garage.  Lloyds  said she didnt and that the cover  she was referring  to 
was for office equipment. Lloyds reiterated that there  was no optional  cover available under 
the policy for business tools. It said Miss L wouldve needed to take out a separate  business 
insurance policy to cover  the tools. 
Miss L was upset by what she was told by Lloyds. She said they had had thousands  of 
pounds of tools taken  and now she was being  told they werent covered. There  was a further 
call the same day in which she explained to Lloyds  that when she took the policy  out she 
definitely took out the optional additional  cover to insure the tools. She said shed paid an 
additional premium  for two years for something  that wasnt  covered. Miss L said shed been  
mis-sold the policy. 
The following  day both Mr M and Miss L called and spoke to Lloyds.  Mr M explained that 
wires had become crossed  as a result  of the stress of the claim and that it was his personal  
tools that had been stolen  from their garage. He said theyd stressed the need  to cover the 
tools when theyd taken  the policy out and theyd paid extra  for the cover  ever since.  He said 
the tools were always in their garage and were in no way used  for business or professional 
purposes. He said the company he was currently worked for supplied  his van and the tools  
he needed to do his job. He said he didnt use his own tools for work.  
About a week later Lloyds  called Mr M to discuss the discrepancies  between what  hed 
originally told it about using the tools in a business capacity and what hed subsequently said 
about them  being for his personal use only. Mr M was unable to provide  an explanation for 
doing so. 
A couple of weeks later Lloyds wrote to Miss L and referred to the fraud condition on the 
policy. It said that if felt false information had been provided to claim for something that 
otherwise wasnt covered.  It said the account originally given about what  had happened had 
subsequently been amended to suit the cover on the policy.  Lloyds  said it was declining the 
claim and cancelling  their policy without refunding the premiums.  
Ref: DRN88895942Miss L complained to Lloyds. Lloyds looked into her complaint but didnt think  itd wrongly  
invoked the fraud condition. With regard to the mis-sale element of Miss Ls complaint it said 
itd never  offered additional cover for business  tools under its home insurance policies. 
Whilst there were some additional covers on the policy (office equipment,  legal liability  etc.) 
these were included  free of charge with the standard cover. It said it couldnt  comment  on 
what had or hadnt  been said at the point of sale due to the time that had passed  since. It did 
point out that a welcome pack wouldve been  sent setting out the cover  purchased,  terms 
and conditions and giving  them 14 days to cancel if they were unhappy with any aspect of 
the policy. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Miss L complained  to this service.  She 
said she was struggling to get insurance elsewhere as a result of whatd happened. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  but didnt think Lloyds had treated Miss L 
unreasonably. Miss L responded  to say that she disagreed and that shed been  mis-sold the 
policy as shed been led to believe at the point of sale that the tools  were covered. She also 
said she thought  it was unfair that Lloyds had unfairly placed a fraud  marker against  her 
name. Miss L said this was having  a damaging effect on her and she was struggling to get 
insurance and to re-mortgage. 
Our investigator asked  Lloyds if itd be prepared to remove the fraud marker but it said it 
wouldnt and that it would  remain in place for six years. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ls policy includes standard contents  cover with optional  accidental damage cover. On 
her schedule it says Cover  includes:Contents  in garages and outbuildings £5,000.  Under 
the description of the type of cover Miss L chose, the cost is stated. There is an overall  cost 
for contents  cover with optional accidental damage cover  which  is £110.45. Beneath  the 
contents section  is a section entitled  Optional cover that can be added to your policy under 
which theres no mention  of an option to cover  items  used for business purposes.  
The policy terms and conditions set out in further  detail what is and isnt covered. They say 
This part of the policy sets out the cover we provide  for the contents of your home  whilst  
they are in your home. The policy defines  home  as the private dwelling and its 
garages. The terms include cover  for theft. The terms  go on to say the most the policy 
covers for contents within garages is £5,000. Under the section  What  we dont cover  it 
states Any articles used  or held for business or professional purposes. 
So I think its clear from the schedule and the policy terms that theres cover for contents in 
the garage up to £5,000 and that it forms part of the overall standard contents cover offered  
by the policy.  But its also clear that theres  no cover for contents  used or held for business 
purposes. The policy is a standard home insurance  policy not a business one. So there  was 
no option to include  tools used for business and professional purposes within  the cover 
taken out. I think the policy terms and schedule are clear about  the extent of cover.  
Ref: DRN88895943It seems  that the policy was sold in branch but theres no available  documentary evidence  
about what, if anything, was said at the point of sale about the need  for cover for the tools. I 
can only look at the policy documentation  that Miss L was provided with and  as Ive set out 
above  I think  it clearly set out what was and wasnt covered. So Im unable  to fairly say that 
the policy was unsuitable for Miss Ls needs and that it was mis-sold. 
Ive seen transcripts of the four calls between Miss L, Mr M and Lloyds. The first call is the 
one where the claim is notified and I can see that Mr M volunteered information about what 
the stolen tools  were used  for and that he was self-employed. Towards the end of the call 
the advisor asks Mr M because all of the items  that have  been taken are tools, you did say 
these are used for business purposes, so you use these every  day in work  is that correct?.  
Mr M replies,  Yes, Im pretty sure we did have extra cover on our policyas I load and 
unload every night  and every morning into the garage,  it made sense to get the optional 
extra cover on the garage  in order  to cover this.
The second  call is with Miss L and the advisor says at the start, when we spoke  to your 
partner we queried the usage of the tools,  he did advise he is self-employed  and all the tools  
taken from the garage are used for business  purpose, is that correct?  to which Miss L 
replies, yes. The advisor then confirms  that the policy doesnt cover  items used or held for 
business purposes, that the policy only provided  cover for personal items. 
Ive no reason to doubt that the answers given  by Miss L and Mr M to Lloyds questions 
during these calls were accurate. The questions Lloyds asked during the calls were  clear, 
unambiguous and unpressured. 
Taking all these circumstances  into account,  I dont think that Lloyds  unreasonably  declined 
to cover Miss Ls claim.  Miss L and Mr M told Lloyds that the tools were for business  use and 
Lloyd said that as that was the case the policy didnt engage. I think all the paperwork Miss L 
was provided with clearly  set out the extent of the cover theyd purchased. 
The following  day Mr M spoke to Lloyds  and changed the answers hed previously given  to 
say the stolen tools were  his own personal items and not used for business. He said he 
didnt own any business items and never used them for work. 
About a week later Lloyds  phoned Mr M and asked  him to explain the discrepancies in the 
two accounts  hed given and he was unable to do so. Shortly  after Lloyds said it was 
invoking the fraud condition in the policy. It cancelled it back  to the date of the claim, 
retained the premiums  and put a fraud marker against Miss Ls name.  
The policy fraud condition  is clear in that the policy will end if a policyholder provides 
information that isnt true in order to obtain  cover for a claim.  I have to decide whether Lloyds 
fairly invoked the fraud condition, cancelled  the policy and placed a fraud  marker against  
Miss Ls name.  Taking  all the circumstances of what happened  into account I cant  
reasonably say that Lloyds has acted unfairly.  It gave  Mr M the opportunity  to explain the two 
different accounts  hed given and he was unable to do so. When  Lloyds told Miss L the claim 
wasnt covered, she and Mr M changed what theyd originally said to Lloyds. I dont think, in 
circumstances such as these, Lloyds unfairly  invoked the policys fraud condition.  
Unfortunately for Miss L, the consequences of the policy being cancelled as result of the 
fraud condition being  invoked  are that any premium paid is retained  and a fraud marker is 
placed against her name on an external database.  I accept that this has caused Miss L 
Ref: DRN88895944difficulties. But I cant reasonably require Lloyds to remove the marker given that I think the 
fraud condition was fairly applied. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019. 
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8889594