K821x#15Since I issued my provisional  decision the firm has changed its name to Quilter  Financial 
Services Ltd.  For the sake of clarity in the rest of this decision I will continue to refer to the 
firm as Intrinsic. 
complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about advice he said he received from an appointed representative (AR) 
of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd.  He says the advice was to switch two personal pensions 
to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP) with another provider. The switch  was 
recommended in order to allow investments in unregulated non-mainstream investments. 
Mr R considers the advice  he received was unsuitable.
Background
Mr R met with the adviser who was an employee  of The ER Network  Ltd an AR of Intrinsic.  
The adviser also had an unregulated business,  Vita Investment Planning.
Whether advice was provided is in dispute but, after meeting the adviser a SIPP application  
was completed and two personal pensions were switched into the SIPP.  A short  time later, 
investments were made  in two Sustainable Agro Energy (SGG) products and Global 
Forestry (Belem Sky).  
The SGG investments  went  into administration  in early 2012, following allegations of fraud. 
This prompted Mr R to complain about  the suitability  of the advice he said he received.
Intrinsic said that it was not responsible  for the advice as it was not given  by its AR but by 
the unregulated  firm  Vita Investment Planning.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 June  2019.   In this I said the 
following:
I will first consider whether this is a complaint that we can look at.  Ive considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whether this is a complaint  that we can look at.  
I will consider  our jurisdiction in three steps:
What is the complaint?
What if any regulated activities is Mr R complaining about?
Is Intrinsic  responsible?
Mr Rs solicitor has set out his complaint in the following terms:
The original  letter of complaint to Intrinsic  of 25 June 2013:
Our client was advised by you to transfer  their pension savings into a SIPP.  Your  adviser 
was fully aware that our client was considering investing in SGG once the pension  transfer to 
the SIPP was complete.  Indeed, the whole process  was directed toward this outcome.
Suitability
Ref: DRN87038232We have considered papers provided to us by our client  and conclude the following:
There is no (or no adequate) assessment of the suitability  of the SGG investment.
There is no (or no adequate) assessment of the risks of the SGG investment.
If the advice were suitable (which we believe it is not) the fund is over-exposed to this 
type of investment in any event.
The benefits of the ceding scheme have not been replaced.
The creation  of the SIPP was only necessary to facilitate the SGG investment.
Charges (upon exit from the former scheme, and upon entry into the SIPP and then 
upon entry  to the new investment) have  been  incurred unnecessarily upon transfer.
In a letter of complaint to this service of 4 October 2013 it wrote:
Our complaint relates to advice provided  to our client by the above regulated firm [Intrinsic]. 
The firm provided regulated advice in relation to the transfer of a pension to a SIPP. The 
only reason for the creation of the SIPP was to facilitate investment into unregulated  
products offered by the Sustainable Growth  Group ("SGG").
The client  was introduced  to the firm in full knowledge that the sole purpose of the transfer 
was to invest into SGG.
There are three elements  to this:
Whether the pension  transfer was necessary? - did it rack up costs  for no apparent 
benefit to the client.
Was the transfer in itself suitable  for the client? Would they have  been  better  off 
staying with their original arrangement?
Was the simultaneous investment into SGG part of the pension transfer? If so, has 
the adviser complied  with the requirements  set out in the FSA update of 18th January 
2013.
The complaint that has been made  is that Mr R was advised to switch  two personal pensions  
to a SIPP.  The purpose of the switch was to enable the investment in the SGG products to 
be made.  Personal pensions were  switched from Windsor Life and Prudential to the 
Berkeley Burke SIPP.  Investments within the SIPP  were made in two SGG products and 
Global Forestry (Belem Sky).   
The solicitors have  not explicitly said that adviser also recommended  the SGG investment.  
The complaint set out above also only mentions the SGG product.  However, in addition  to 
the two SGG products  Mr R also invested in another overseas property investment  Global 
Forestry (Belem Sky).  I understand that at the time the original complaint there were no 
issues with this investment.  I will discuss this point further later in this decision.
Both the two original  personal pensions and the SIPP  are specified investments as per 
article 82 of the Regulated  Activities Order 2001  (RAO).   There  is not a lot of information 
available about  the SGG  or Global  Forestry  investments but based on the evidence  I have  
seen it seems likely they were unregulated collective investment  schemes.   A collective 
investment scheme  is a specified investment as per article  81 of the RAO.  Therefore advice 
to switch the personal pension to the SIPP  would  be regulated investment advice as per 
article 53 of the RAO.   Advice about a collective investment  scheme would also be regulated 
investment advice.     
Ref: DRN87038233Whether advice was given and exactly what happened to bring about the pension  switches  
and the underlying investments is disputed.  Before establishing what,  if any, responsibility 
Intrinsic has for the actions of its AR I will first make  various findings about what actually 
happened.  
It is not in dispute  that a number of meetings  were  held between Mr R and the adviser  
(putting aside the capacity in which he was acting).  The upshot of these meetings was that 
Mr R switched two personal pensions to a SIPP with Berkeley Burke.  The  purpose  of the 
pension switch was to enable investment in a series  of unregulated  investments.
These were  not mainstream investments and I consider it unlikely  that Mr R would have 
come across  these investments himself.  I am aware of a number  of essentially identical 
complaints about  the adviser and switches to a SIPP  to make investments in SGG  and 
Global Forestry products.   In my view this is persuasive evidence that the adviser introduced  
both the idea of the pension switch and the investments in SGG  products.  
This transaction involved the entirety of Mr Rs pension  provision.  
The advisers version of events is as follows:
At our meeting on 15/06/2011 we discussed  the benefits of his pension plans. [Mr R] 
enquired about  the possibility of using his pension to purchase another BTL. A discussion 
then took place around the rules of commercial and residential purchase and I explained he 
could only do the former  by transferring  to a SIPP. I then explained the pros & cons  of SIPP 
v Personal Pension and [Mr R] was interested in the flexibility that a SIPP  offered. I 
explained that he did not have sufficient funds to invest in commercial  property  at which  
point [Mr R] asked what investments could be held within a SIPP with a view to obtaining 
superior returns.  I explained  that I was not able to provide any information on those types of 
investments within  the environment  of a regulated meeting. [Mr R] requested  a further  
meeting which  was arranged for 28/06/2011.
The requested meeting  took place on 28/06/2011 at which I presented  my business card and 
terms of business  letter  for Vita Investment Planning Ltd. I explained that I was about to 
discuss a range of products which were high risk and nonregulated which  meant that if 
anything went wrong he would not have  any protection  from the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme.  I also explained that I could not provide any advice at all in relation 
to any of these products  and could only offer information. The decision to invest could only 
be made by [Mr R].
Having considered what the adviser  has said my conclusion is that the adviser gave 
regulated investment advice about the merits of switching a personal pension  to a SIPP.   
The SIPP advice would have been about  the merits of opening a specific SIPP (the Berkeley 
Burke SIPP).  All of the clients  of the adviser  who carried out the same transaction   of 
which there are a significant number switched their pension to a Berkeley Burke SIPP.    
This conclusion is supported by the documentary  evidence associated  with the pension 
switch.  In setting up the SIPP and arranging  the pension switch the adviser was clearly 
acting for the AR.  Mr R authorised the AR to contact the ceding schemes and obtain 
transfer values.   The paperwork was submitted by the AR to Berkeley Burke and it sent 
confirmation of receipt  to the AR.  There is therefore  clear  documentary evidence  that the 
pension switched were  arranged by the AR.
Ref: DRN87038234The adviser says that he separated the SIPP and the SGG  advice   ensuring that the SGG  
advice was given  by his non regulated business  Vita Investment Planning.  There  is some  
evidence that supports  this.  For each of the two SGG investments a letter,  on Vita 
Investment Planning  paper,  signed by Mr R has been produced,  which confirms that no 
advice has been  given.
However, in terms of both jurisdiction  and also the outcome  of this complaint I do not 
consider it necessary to make a finding  on whether the SGG/Global Forestry advice was 
given by the AR or Vita Investment Planning. 
Is Intrinsic responsible for the SIPP advice given by the AR?
As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G  says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for Positive 
Solutions (for some purposes) was held to be engaging in a recognisably  independent 
business of his own   a property investment scheme.    
Vita Investment  Planning  might be a recognisably independent business in respect of the 
SGG advice.  However, there is nothing to connect  this business to the pension  switch 
advice.  As  set out above, my conclusion is that this advice  was given by the ER Network.
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
As mentioned above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
Ref: DRN87038235"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal (Intrinsic) is required to accept responsibly  for that business  
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear  that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
generic business of a prescribed description.  I will first deal with the meaning prescribed 
business and before dealing with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in February 2010.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  
Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
Ref: DRN87038236So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 RAO).  It does not 
mean advising Mr R on particular investments. 
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised to carry out the above regulated activities  in this 
case.
What was the prescribed business Intrinsic  accepted responsibility  for in this case?
The s. 39 Agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER Network expressly incorporated the 
compliance manual.  The agreement  itself said:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined  as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement
The Compliance Manual was more  helpful on this point.  It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, Members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted The ER Network to carry on was arranging  
deals, advising on investments (and mortgages  but that is not relevant here)  and agreeing to 
arrange deals  and advise on investments.   Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for that business 
as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did authorise The ER Network to advise on investments, arrange 
deals in investments  and agree to do both.  This was the (relevant) prescribed business 
Intrinsic authorised The ER Network to carry on and agreed to accept responsibility for. 
But as I have said above, Intrinsic says it put limits on the business it accepts responsibly 
for.  In  effect it says it authorises investment advice  but only if certain conditions  are met, 
such as the adviser  passing a relevant exam, or the investment being on its approved list.  
Ref: DRN87038237what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk,  HHJ Waksman said the following  (where  D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge 
said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.  
Then the judge  said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) 
agreed with the above.  In that case the network  principal  had argued  that it was not 
responsible for advice  to invest in an investment in which  it did not authorise the appointed 
representative to deal.  The judge said: 
Ref: DRN87038238the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenets behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as having  such  
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it follows  that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties  only.  Does 
that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way?  The  answer to that question  is no 
because of the words  part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above  really considered this point.  But  it was dealt with 
in the most recent case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC 2834.  In 
that case the judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
ARs actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
Ref: DRN87038239from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Grieg in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingrams evidence  was that he knew  that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes  a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority.   And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely connected to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.   
my view  about  the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement in this case:
advice restricted to approved  products
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  includes  the following:
2.1 Intrinsics Scope  of Permission
Intrinsic is authorised by the FSA to carry out certain activities.   This is referred  to as Part IV 
permission.  All regulated firms have to obtain a permission, but the scope of their particular  
permission may include one of several regulated activities depending  on the business of the 
firm.  
The regulated activities for which Intrinsic has approval is as follows:
a)Arranging (brining about) deals  in;
b)Making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)Advising on; and
d)Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated  investments
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  on those  activities 
detailed above (dependent  upon any restrictions inherent in your contract); these  are referred 
to as the Scope of Permissions.
All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised  regime on 1 June 2005.   As an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels and product 
ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Ref: DRN870382310Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
2.4 Restricted activities
Intricnsics scope of permission does not allow appointed representatives or advisers to carry 
out certain areas of business.  Below  we detail areas where restrictions apply.
2.4.1 Non-Advised Business
Intrinsic believes that advice is always  necessary,  and our sales processes  have been 
developed bearing this in mind.  Although there is scope within the FSA rules  to operate 
certain non-advised  processes, Intrinsic have chosen not to take advantage of this.
2.4.2 Products requiring  additional authorisation.
As an appointed representative firm or adviser  with Intrinsic there are some restrictions on 
activities relating  to certain products.  Details  of these can be found  in the Licensing  section.
2.4.3 Acting  as Trustee, Power of attorney, or Executor of a Will
You are prohibited from acting for your client as Trustee; Power  of Attorney; or Executor of a 
Will
2.4.4 Dual Authorisation
You are not permitted to have dual authorisation and be directly by the FSA as well as 
through Intrinsic
2.4.5 Dealing with Overseas Clients

8.6 The Sales Process
The advice process is substantially the same for all areas of FCA regulation.  There  are slight 
differences between business areas.  Please refer to guidance  in the Designated Investment, 
Mortgage and Pure Protection and General Insurance Documents for details of the specific 
process requirement for these business areas:
Contacting the client or potential client;
Providing specified information at the outset;
Undertaking  a Know your client  exercise, usually  involving some form of fact find;
Research to recommend  a product which is suited to the clients  needs at that time;
A recommendation (which the client may reject and a subsequent recommendation 
may be made);
Completion of the application form as a sale is made.
8.6.1 Execution only
An execution  only case is one where the client requires no advice as they have already 
decided on the exact contract they require.
Intrinsic firmly believe that full advice should be given to clients  in all circumstances.  
However, if you do come across a client who matches the above circumstances you should 
seek approval  of Compliance before proceeding with business on that basis.
The above  helps to explain the context  of the s.39 agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER 
Network.  
Ref: DRN870382311Some points to note are that Intrinsic has permission to advise on all investments but has 
chosen to offer products  from a limited range.  And the AR is restricted to the product range 
chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsics ARs are however obliged to give advice and may not just sell on an execution  only 
basis.  Advice involves a process that includes getting to know  the clients financial situation  
in order to give suitable advice.  And in turn this means that sometimes  advice involves the 
recommendation to end one investment in order to start another.
This is in effect what has happened in this complaint  the recommendation to end the 
existing personal  pensions and to replace them with a Berkeley Burke  SIPP.   Neither the 
Berkeley Burke SIPP nor the Windsor Life pension were Intrinsic approved products.  I 
understand that Prudential was an Intrinsic approved provider for pensions.  
However, the advice  to surrender the existing personal pension and switch to the SIPP are 
inextricably linked.  Without the surrender  advice  there could have been no advice to take 
out the SIPP.  Where  two pieces of advice are inextricably linked then they in effect form a 
single piece of advice.  This was made  clear  in the case of Tenet  Connect  v Financial  
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin). If any part of the advice is the 
responsibility of the principal then the whole  of the advice will also be.
So in this case as the Principal authorised The ER Network  to give advice on one of  the 
ceding pension  schemes (Prudential).   This  advice  was inextricably linked to the advice to 
take out the SIPP with Berkley Burke and also the advice to switch from the Windsor Life 
personal pension.     Because  of this it forms a single piece of advice  for which  Intrinsic is 
responsible for in its entirety  because it authorised part of the advice (the Prudential  
advice).
special process  for replacement business
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes a special process for replacement business.   Intrinsic 
classifies replacement business as when an adviser  recommends that a customer  replaces 
an existing contract with a new one. The Compliance Manual says it is essential  that for all 
replacement business  the following principles are followed  by the adviser:
Research the exiting policy  and fully understand the features and options available.
Carefully compare the features, options and charges of both policies.
Fully explain and record all negative aspects of the replacement to the client.
Ensure  all the disadvantages  as well as the advantages are fully explained  in the reason for 
recommendation letter  and explain  what factors made you decide that the replacement was in 
the clients  best interests.
The Compliance Manual goes on to say:
Some customers  may have a pre-conceived  idea about what they want  to do and it is easy  
for the adviser to allow  these  cases to become  customer driven.   However,  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS) takes a dim view of these cases.  Their view is often that unless 
the customer  has been  specifically advised not to do something,  then the advisers input  is 
viewed as being a recommendation.
This means  that you need to be clear  about what the most suitable course of action is.  The 
reason for recommendation needs to be absolutely clear about what  was advised, 
irrespective of whether  the customer intends to follow that advice.
Ref: DRN870382312In this case Intrinsic recommended moving Mr Rs existing personal  pensions to a SIPP  with 
Berkley Burke.  Put another way Intrinsic recommended  the replacement  of existing policies 
with another. The replacement  business process should therefore have been used and it 
appears that it wasnt.  In  my view it is arguable that the standard required by the 
Compliance Manual  was not reached  because:
It is not clear the existing policies were researched fully.
The features of the existing policies were not fully and clearly analysed  and recorded 
in a recommendation report in particular the existing investment options were  not 
fully and clearly considered.  
Nor were  the existing  charges  analysed and compared to the charges of the SIPP. 
If the adviser  failed  to meet  the standard required in the Compliance Manual would this 
mean the adviser acted contrary to his authority and that Intrinsic was not responsible for the 
advice?
In my view the answer to this question ought to be self-evident.   Can a principal really  only 
be responsible  for advice  if it achieves  a certain  quality and is presented a certain format?  
This seems contrary to the purpose  of s.39 and wrong.
If the adviser  is authorised to give advice about SIPPs it follows  that he will need to be able 
to consider and advise  upon the advantages  and disadvantages of the clients existing 
pension provision if he has any. Requiring  the adviser to document  that advice in a certain 
way is so closely related  to the activities for which permission  is given  that a breach of such 
a requirement is only an inter se matter.  It applies only as between  the principal  and the 
appointed representative.  It does not mean the appointed representative acts outside  the 
scope of his authority.  
This type of restriction - as it applies in this case  is either  an example of certain duties 
needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense 
Network.  Or  it is closely  analogous to such duties.  In either event as explained in the 
Anderson case a breach of that procedural requirement does not mean  that the transaction 
in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is 
taken.
So if the adviser breached the requirements  in the Compliance Manual relating to the 
process for replacement business in my view this factor does not mean Intrinsic is not 
responsible for the advice given.
pre-approval of pension switching  advice
Intrinsic has argued in other complaints that its Compliance Manual includes a requirement 
for preapproval of pension  switching  advice.  I cannot however find that requirement.
If there is such  a requirement and if it was in a similar form to the requirement to get 
preapproval for insistent  client  business,  my view is that such a restriction is similar in nature 
and effect to the restriction relating  to the procedural requirements for replacement  business.  
It is therefore my present view that if there is such a restriction, a breach  of it in this case  
does not mean Intrinsic  is not responsible for the advice given.
Ref: DRN870382313special requirements  for pension transfers
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  says that pension  switching should  be treated in the 
same way as pension transfers.   Advice  to move  from a personal pension to a SIPP is a 
pension switch according to the regulators rules.  If the advice is to transfer from an 
occupational pension to a SIPP, thats  a pension transfer according to regulators rules.  But 
according to Intrinsics Compliance Manual  both should be treated as pension  transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual the adviser is required to pass Intrinsics pensions  transfer  test 
before advising  on (what Intrinsic calls) pension  transfers.  I understand that the adviser had 
the necessary  qualifications and had been  approved  by Instrinsic to give pension transfer 
advice.
my view  on whether the complaint is against Intrinsics appointed representative:
For all the reasons discussed above  it is my view that this is a complaint against Intrinsics  
appointed representative acting in its capacity as Intrinsics appointed representative.  The  
complaint relates  to business Intrinsic accepted responsibility for and Intrinsic is subject to 
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service for complaints about that business.
my provisional decision  on jurisdiction
My provisional decision is that this is a complaint that this service can look at.
In the course  of my consideration of the jurisdiction aspects of the complaint I have been 
able to reach a provisional conclusion on the merits  of the complaint.  I will now therefore go 
on to explain my provisional conclusion.
The merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint I will consider is that The ER Network acting as an AR of Intrinsic gave Mr R 
unsuitable advice  to switch two personal pensions to a SIPP
When giving  SIPP advice,  consideration must be given, if known, to the investments to be 
held within  the SIPP.  This has been  made  clear  by a number of statements made  by the 
FCA.  For example on January 2013 the FCA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
Ref: DRN870382314advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Whilst this was issued  after the advice was given to Mr R, I consider it was not a new 
requirement of the FCA but rather a reminder  of what the rules  in force at the time of the 
advice were.  
Therefore, when giving  the advice to switch  the personal pensions  to the SIPP,  the adviser 
should have considered the investments to be held within the SIPP.   However, to do so 
would require the AR to know what the intended  investments to be held within the SIPP  
were.  It is clear  from the ARs version  of events that he was aware that the purpose  of the 
transfer to the SIPP  was to enable investment in SGG products (and Global Forestry).
There are three elements to determining suitability.  These are set out in COBS 9.2.  A 
recommended investment: 
 meets the investors investment objectives
 is such that the investor is able financially to bear any related investment  risks 
consistent with his investment  objectives;  
 is such that the investor has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Nothing was formally established at the time of the advice about the level of risk that Mr R 
was prepared to take.  However, I consider there  is enough background information 
available to make  a reasonable assessment of the level of risk that Mr R had previously  
taken.  I consider that up to the point  of the investment  Mr R would be broadly categorised 
as a medium risk investor.  The bulk of Mr Rs original pension was invested  in a managed  
fund with the remainder  in a unitised with profits  fund.  In my view it is reasonable to 
conclude that Mr R would generally be considered medium risk.
This was Mr Rs sole pension provision and as such  I consider that he was not in a position 
to bear the risks associated with the SIPP.  An investor who places the entirety of their 
pension into a SIPP for the express  purpose  of investing in unregulated, high risk 
investments is taking a very substantial risk.  I consider that Mr R did not have the capacity 
to bear this level of risk with his pension.  Mr R was reliant on these  investments for the 
totality of his pension income.   Any significant  loss on these investments would have a 
serious impact on his retirement  income.   
I am also not persuaded that Mr R had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved with the SIPP (by virtue of the investment to be held within  it).  The SGG and 
Global Forestry investments were unusual high risk investments and the risks associated  
with them  were well outside  what a typical retail investor would encounter.   
Ref: DRN870382315This conclusion is consistent with the comments made by the judge  in the case  of Burns  v 
FCA (Burns v FCA Upper Tribunal [2018] UKUT 0246 (TCC))
It would be readily  apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an unsophisticated  
retail investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by interests in a defined 
benefit scheme or in a personal pension invested in a spread of traditional investments, to 
switch his benefits into a SIPP which was to be wholly invested in either a single or very 
small number of inherently risky overseas property  investments was a wholly unsuitable  
course of action for that investor to take.  
In my view all three of the factors in deciding suitability  were not met. Even  if Mr R was 
prepared to take a high level of risk with his pension, and to be clear  Im not persuaded that 
he was, to place  all his pension fund into such high risk investments was not consistent with 
his circumstances.  In such a situation the adviser should have advised  against doing this.  I 
consider it reasonable to assume that if Mr R had been advised not to go ahead with the 
SIPP and the SGG/Global  Forestry  investments he would have heeded this advice.
As part of potential legal action against  a trustee  associated with the SGG investment a form 
was completed by Mr R.  Mr R was asked what level of risk he understood the investments 
had  to which he put a line through  the three options (low/medium/high).
He was also asked  who advised you to transfer  your pension?  Mr B wrote direct  transfer.
This would suggest  that Mr R was not advised to switch his personal pensions  to the SIPP.
The background to the completion of this questionnaire was that it was part of an action 
contemplated against a trustee  associated  with the SGG investments.  I understand that this 
action was suggested to investors by the AR and that the AR funded the initial cost of the 
action.  In such circumstances  I can understand why the AR might  wish to influence  the 
content of the document and in particular not to leave it open to possible complaints or legal 
action.  I have seen  a number of these  forms and the phrases used are common  on many of 
them  which would  support an argument that investors had been told what  to write.  I 
therefore do not place any great weight on this document.
Because of this my provisional conclusion is that the advice to switch  to the SIPP  for the 
purpose of making  the SGG and Global Forestry investments was unsuitable.    
fair compensation
The redress  calculation should compare  the current value of Mr Rs SIPP  to the total value of 
his previously held pensions, had they remained with the same  providers in the same funds.
 
Intrinsic should:
 
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Rs previous pension  plans,  if they had not been 
transferred to the SIPP.
 
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Rs SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
 
3.Pay an amount into Mr Rs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
Ref: DRN870382316 
In addition, Intrinsic should:
 
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr R to the SIPP.
 
5.Pay Mr R £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
 
I have explained  how Intrinsic should carry this out in further detail below.
 
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Rs previous pension  plans  if they had not been 
transferred to the SIPP.
 
This should take account of any guaranteed  benefits that may have applied to the previous 
pension plan.
 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index should be used  instead. That is a reasonable proxy  for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen. 
 
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Rs SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
 
The SGG and Global Forestry investments  should be assumed to have a nil value.
 
Intrinsic may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr R may receive from the investments and 
any eventual sums  he would be able to access from the SIPP.  Intrinsic will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
 
3.Pay an amount into Mr Rs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
 
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Intrinsic should  pay it as a cash 
sum to Mr R. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would  have provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement.  
 
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the redress 
calculation until the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable on this interest.
 
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr R to the SIPP.
 
Had Intrinsic given  suitable advice, I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr R 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.
 
Ref: DRN870382317Ideally, Intrinsic should take over the investments to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr R back in the position he would have been  in. But I dont  know  how 
long that will take.  Third parties are involved and I dont have the power to tell them what to 
do. To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Intrinsic  pays Mr R an upfront lump  
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  
There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Mr R 
with some confidence that he will not be subject  to further fees.
 
In my view, awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees strikes a fair 
balance. Its possible that the SGG and Global Forestry investments could be removed  from 
the SIPP in less than five years. But given the time it has taken to date I think  it is possible 
that it could take a number of years more  to resolve all of the issues. So using a figure of five 
years worth  of fees is an approximate and fair award  to resolve the issue now.
 
5.Pay Mr R £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Mr R has been caused some distress by the loss of his pension benefits. I think  a payment 
of £500 is appropriate compensation for that distress.
Mr R agreed with my provisional  decision and had nothing  further  to add.  Intrinsic  said it 
didnt agree.  It also said that it didnt think it would be able to obtain a notional  transfer value  
of the original pension scheme.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further  to say I confirm that my final decision is the same  as 
provisional decision set out above.   If, as Intrinsic suggest, it is not able to obtain the notional 
transfer value  then this should be calculated using the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income 
total return index.   
my final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld. I order Quilter Financial Services  
Ltd to pay the redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8703823