K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited is about the service he received after 
his boiler broke down.  Mr A is represented  by his son.
background
Mr A had a HomeCare policy with British Gas, which provided cover  for his boiler and central 
heating system. 
Mr A was in hospital in December 2017  recovering from major  surgery. His son stayed  at his 
house and found that the heating  and hot water  wasnt working.  Mr As son contacted  British  
Gas and arranged  for an engineer to visit the house  in the afternoon on 24th December. 
Mr As daughter arranged  to be at the house on 24th December. But when the engineer  
hadnt arrived by 10pm  she returned  to her own home. The engineer called in the early 
hours of 25th December, but Mr As daughter said the visit would have to be rearranged.
The engineers visit was rearranged for 27th December. He arrived later than arranged  and 
replaced the pressure  release valve. He tested  the system and reported that it was working.
Mr As family reported more problems in early January  2018.  Another engineer  visited on 
7th January and repaired a water leak, but another leak developed a few days  later. British 
Gas engineers then visited  Mr As house  numerous  times over the next four months to try 
and address various problems with the boiler  and central heating.  
On behalf of Mr A, his son complained  that:
British Gas engineers  had to make no less than 13 visits over a four month period. They 
appeared unable to diagnose the problem.  And the same  work was done on different 
visits, which suggests it wasnt done  properly in the first place.   
His father was seriously ill at the time. Although his father was in hospital  for some of this 
period, he had to come home  to a house with no heating or hot water. 
All of this caused considerable stress  and anxiety to his father at a time when he was 
very ill. 
Each time an engineer visited, one of Mr As family had to travel some  distance to the 
house and wait for the five hour time slots theyd been given. He estimates that family 
members spent  35-45 hours  at the property waiting for engineers to arrive.
He had to make  several  hours  worth  of phones calls, which  caused  a lot of stress, 
anxiety and inconvenience.
Mr A had to call the fire brigade  because of a suspected carbon monoxide leak, following 
work by the British  Gas engineers. Although no leak was found, this caused  significant 
stress and anxiety. 
British Gas accept that their service fell below the level theyd  expect. They agree that their 
engineers didnt keep three appointments, and that on some  of their visits they could have 
done more to try and resolve things. British  Gas also accept  that its taken time to arrange 
and chase up appointments,  and that they didnt respond to Mr As complaint as quickly  as 
they should have.
Ref: DRN83353972British Gas have  offered  to compensate Mr A for what went wrong.  Theyve replaced his 
boiler, and say they werent required to do so under  the terms of his HomeCare policy.  And 
theyve offered him £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Mr A didnt think this was enough  so he brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He 
thinks compensation of £2,000 would be more appropriate, given the impact on his family. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said British  Gas had caused Mr A a lot 
of stress and worry. But she thought the compensation offered by British  Gas was fair. Mr A 
disagrees and so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that British Gas failed  to provide Mr A with the level of service they should 
have. Their engineers  had to make numerous  visits over a four month period to try and 
resolve the problems  with Mr As boiler.  In the end they offered to replace the boiler. British 
Gas accept that at times their engineers could have  done  more  and that some  appointments 
were missed.
All of this had a significant impact on Mr A, who was seriously ill at the time. His family had 
to help him try and resolve things  with British Gas, and this caused him considerable stress 
and inconvenience.   
So Ive thought very carefully about  whether  the compensation that British  Gas have offered 
is enough to put things  right. 
The first point Ive considered is the replacement of Mr As boiler.  British  Gas say that should 
be seen as part of their compensation to Mr A. They say they werent required to replace the 
boiler but they chose to do so free of charge.  Mr A says he was entitled  to a replacement  
boiler under his HomeCare policy, and so it shouldnt be taken into account as part of the 
compensation for British Gas service  failings.
Under his HomeCare policy, Mr A would  be entitled to a replacement if British  Gas couldnt 
repair his boiler  and it was less than seven years old. 
British Gas have  said that, according to their records, Mr As boiler was installed in 1980. 
They have a record of their engineers visits to Mr As house since  November  2013,  and this 
shows 1980 as the year of installation.  
Mr A says British Gas records are inaccurate and that his boiler was replaced around  2013. 
He doesnt have any paperwork to support this, but says its most likely the boiler was 
replaced less than seven years  ago. Hes also said the boiler  in his house has been replaced 
at least twice since he moved there in the 1990s.
Ive thought about what both parties  have  said on this point. And overall, I dont have enough  
evidence to say the boiler  was less than seven years old. I cant therefore  say that Mr A was 
entitled to a replacement under his policy. 
Ref: DRN83353973Mr A has also said it was the actions of British Gas engineers that meant  his boiler had to 
be replaced. So its right that British  Gas should  install the new boiler free of charge. British 
Gas say theres no technical evidence their engineers caused the problems  with Mr As 
boiler. They were trying  to find out what was wrong and made a number of repairs.   
Ive looked at the evidence available on this point. As British Gas have acknowledged, some  
of their engineers  should have done  more to try and resolve things. But I havent  seen  
enough evidence  to say they caused the original problems with the boiler.  
Overall, I think British  Gas went beyond what Mr As policy  required when they agreed to 
install his replacement boiler without charge. So I think its reasonable to take account of the 
new boiler in deciding how much compensation British Gas should pay to Mr A.
Ill now look at whether I think the additional  compensation British  Gas have offered is 
enough. 
Mr A has given  us a detailed statement setting out the distress and anxiety British Gas 
actions caused  him at a time when  he was seriously ill. He says he had to stay in hospital 
longer than he would have because  his house  had no heating and hot water.  He was often 
alone in hospital, but would have had family staying with him if hed been at home. His family 
told him how stressful it was trying to get the problems with his boiler resolved, and that 
caused him additional anxiety.  
Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive considered  very carefully what hes said. I can see that 
whats happened has caused him and his family  significant  distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator has explained  to Mr As son that we can only tell a business  to pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset  experienced by their customer. We cant tell them to 
compensate a third party  even if thats a family  member. 
But I can see the distress experienced by Mr As family is relevant in this case. I accept  that 
seeing his family experience distress and inconvenience would in turn have caused distress 
to Mr A. As Ive noted, Mr A was seriously ill at the time and so the impact on him was 
particularly significant.  
Given this, Ive thought  carefully about whether I should ask British Gas to pay more  than 
£400 in compensation. And I think its a finely balanced decision.  
I should make clear that its not our role to punish  businesses. Where something  has gone 
wrong, we look at the impact its had and whether what the business has done to put things 
right is fair and reasonable. 
Its understandable  that Mr A and his son should  feel very strongly about whats happened. 
The service  provided  by British Gas fell a long way short and this had a significant  impact on 
Mr A. 
But overall I think British  Gas offer is fair and reasonable. As Ive explained,  this takes into 
account the fact that British Gas have  met the cost of replacing  Mr As boiler when I dont 
think they were required  by his policy to do so. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mr A and his son were hoping for, but I wont be asking 
British Gas to do anything more.
Ref: DRN83353974my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider British  Gas Insurance 
Limiteds offer to pay Mr A £400 in compensation  in addition  to replacing his boiler  free of 
charge - to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8335397