K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that Premium Credit  Limited  charged him a late payment fee of £27.50 when  
the amount should have been £20 as per the terms and conditions.
background
Mr C took out an insurance policy with a company Ill refer to as P. His insurance  premiums 
were financed by Premium  Credit  Limited  (PCL) through a credit  agreement.  Mr C says PCL 
charged him a default fee of £27.50  when  he missed a direct debit payment rather  than the 
£20 fee stated in his terms and conditions.
PCL didnt uphold  his complaint. It says it charged  the fees in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of his account and that it notified  customers that the default  fee would increase to 
£27.50.
Unhappy with PCLs  response Mr C referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.  He noted that the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement  allow  PCL to charge £20 each time you miss a payment 
or a Direct Debit from your bank account  is returned unpaid for any reason. He also 
explained that PCL had provided information  to suggest itd sent Mr C an email about  the 
increase of the fee to £27.50.
Mr C says he didnt receive PCLs email about the increase to the fee, but our investigator 
thought it was likely PCL sent this to him based  on the information provided by PCL.  Our 
investigator was satisfied that PCL had given enough notice of the new default charge 
before this was charged to Mr C.
Mr C disagrees  with the investigators view and hes asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He 
says he never received  an email notifying him of the increase in the default  fee and hes 
unhappy that PCL cant provide proof of this. Hes also unhappy  that PCL has deleted copies 
of the letters  it sent to customers. And he thinks the charge is excessive and unfair and PCL 
hasnt justified the increase. He thinks such increases unfairly target  the poor and the charge 
has caused him financial hardship  because he receives benefits and he has rent arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C applied to pay his insurance premiums by instalments and he entered into a credit 
agreement. The credit agreement set out the applicable terms and conditions.  B3.2 says: 
You must pay a Default Charge each time you miss a payment or a Direct Debit  from your 
bank account  is returned unpaid for any reason.
The Credit  Agreement  also allows PCL to vary the charges. B4.5 allows  PCL to vary any of 
the other fees or charges that you may have to pay (under  clause  B.3) by giving you 30 
days notice (see clause  C22). And C22 says We may from time to time vary this 
Agreement, including,  but not limited  to, the charges set out in Schedule B.
Ref: DRN81791682PCL told us that it sent a letter to its customers by email notifying them of the increase in the 
default fee to £27.50 in June  2018.  It said it used a third party  to do this and it provided a 
template of the letter that was sent.  However,  it hasnt been able to provide a copy  of the 
actual letter sent to Mr C because the third party it used has since  deleted  the customer 
letters it sent for data protection reasons.
Mr C is concerned that deletion of these letters is in breach of data protection  laws but under 
the rules that govern our service we dont have  the power to determine whether or not there  
has been a breach of data protection laws  thats a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office  to decide. But I can, and have  looked at whether this impacted on 
Mr C.
PCL hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter it sent to Mr C informing him of the 
increase in fees. In situations where  I dont have all the information Id ideally like I make my 
decision based on the information available to me and on the wider circumstances to decide 
what is more likely  than not to have happened.
PCL gave details to us of the email address it used  for Mr C and it provided confirmation that 
the email was received on 25 June 2018.  Based  on this and the template letter it provided, I 
think its more likely  than not it was sent and Im sorry  to hear Mr C never received it.
Under the credit agreement Mr C was required to make his repaym ents monthly on the date 
they are due for payment . PCL provided  information to show it attempted  to collect Mr Cs 
direct debit in March 2019 and April 2019  but in both cases his direct  debits were returned 
unpaid. This resulted in PCL applying two late payment fees of £27.50  in accordance  with 
the updated terms and conditions.
Ive explained  above that I think it was more likely than not that Mr C was sent an email  in 
June 2018 advising  him of the increase in the default fee and Im satisfied that PCL gave him 
30 days notice before it applied the revised default fee to his account.
Ive also thought about Mr Cs concerns that the default fee applied by PLC was excessive 
and unfair.  I must explain that under the rules  that govern  our service I cant make a finding  
about whether  or not the default  fee is unfair under  consumer laws  as that would be a 
matter for a court to decide. But I can have regard to the law in deciding whether PCL 
treated him fairly in charging the default fees it did.
Ive explained  above that the credit  agreement required  Mr C to make the required payments 
on time. In the event  that a customer fails to do so, the terms and conditions  allow  PCL to 
charge a fee to reflect the extra costs it incurs due to a direct debit not being paid when due.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  provides that a term may be unfair if it requires a customer 
who  fails to fulfil his obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately  high sum in 
compensation. PCL explained in its final response letter that it made the decision to 
increase its default  fee to £27.50 taking into account  its costs of trying to recover unpaid 
direct debit  transactions.  It explained that those  costs include administration fees and fees 
for stationery, postage,  telephony systems,  and maintaining its Contact Centre so it could 
take payments  by alternative means.
Based on PCLs explanation, I dont think the default  fee it charged was manifestly  
disproportionate taking  into account PCLs legitimate  interest in wanting  to ensure its 
customers made their contractual payments on time.  It follows  that I find that PCL treated 
Ref: DRN81791683Mr C fairly  in applying the default fees because the terms  and conditions  allowed it to do so.
I can also see that when  PCL informed its customers of the increase in the default fee, the 
template letter said:  if you are unhappy  with this change you may end your Credit 
Agreement at any time by repaying any outstanding  balance. I think PCL treated Mr C fairly 
here because he wasnt  obliged to continue with his credit agreement  if he wasnt happy with 
the change.
Mr C also says the fees have caused him financial difficulties. However, I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr C raised this issue  as part of his complaint to PCL at the time so Im 
unable to consider  this part of his complaint. Mr C will need to raise this issue separately 
with PCL and give it the chance to respond  first before we can investigate  this part of his 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8179168