K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that in 2005 Mansion Park Limited  (MPL) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  linked  with a loan. They  want MPL to refund them  
the cost of the policy, plus interest. 
background
I previously sent MPL and Mr and Mrs S a provisional decision on this complaint. That 
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and 
I explained why I thought  that MPL had mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs S. I asked both parties  to 
send me any further comments and evidence they wanted me to consider before I made a 
final decision. 
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Mr and Mrs S have told us they 
have nothing further to add, but MPL has raised  several points which it wants me to review. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs S and MPL have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, including the points MPL has raised  since  my provisional decision,  and I have 
decided to uphold  it. I explain why below. 
MPLs response to my provisional decision included the following main  points about the 
merits of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
It said that I referred to a lack of flexibility in the policy without  explaining what  this 
relates to.
It said that it hasnt seen any paperwork signed by Mr and Mrs S and has serious 
doubts over whether  it was responsible for the loan and PPI policy  in question.  
It has noted that Mr and Mrs S cant remember if they received advice about PPI on a 
face-to-face basis or over the phone or in some other way, and so has questioned 
how they know it was MPL who sold the policy to them.
It has argued that the policy  was not expensive  and that Mr and Mrs S may have 
chosen to pay for it with an additional loan as they may not have been able to pay for 
it with a lump sum payment. It has said that there is no evidence  either way.
It has said that it understood  that all loans included pro-rata refunds, although  it 
hasnt been able to check as it has no authority to do so.
MPL has also said that it believes  Mr and Ss complaint  should  be time barred as it thinks  
that Mr and Mrs S must have been aware of their potential claim by 2010  - 2011  at the very 
Ref: DRN83126392latest due to all the publicity  surrounding  (the PPI) industry. It has concluded that the entire 
case seems to be flawed on many levels and has asked that I consider the points it has 
raised before finalising  my decision.
Firstly, in response to MPLs request, I would like to confirm that I have  considered all the 
points it has made throughout this case thoroughly, independently and impartially.
In MPLs response to my provisional decision,  it hasnt  said anything to change the 
background or overall circumstances of the complaint, so I wont  repeat the same arguments 
here. Instead I will explain why I am not changing my provisional findings on the complaint  
by taking each  of MPLs recent points in turn. 
I didnt explain the meaning of lack of flexibility  
In my provisional decision,  I said that Mr and Mrs S wanted  part of their loan to pay 
back other debts and that as the loan in question was set up to run for quite  a lengthy 
period I thought it likely  that they may well have considered paying it off early. 
Had Mr and Mrs S repaid the loan early, they would obviously  no longer have had a 
need for PPI to cover their repayments. In situations  like this, some  single  premium  
policies give policyholders a pro-rata refund on the premiums they have  paid, but 
many dont. If they dont,  then in effect consumers  end up paying for cover for time 
periods when they couldnt use it. We consider such policies to lack flexibility.  
Of course,  this lack of flexibility  doesnt  affect  all consumers as some have no 
intention, desire,  option or capacity  to pay back their main  loan early. But, where a 
policy didnt offer a pro-rata refund on early cancellation, we usually regard that lack of 
flexibility to be a significant term and expect financial businesses to draw it to the 
consumers attention. This applies  in both advised  and non-advised sales.  As set out 
in my provisional decision,  I think it applied in Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Should MPL require more information about  this, then there  is currently  an article  on 
our website called flexibility in single-premium policies which  it might  find useful. 
MPL hasnt seen  any signed paperwork
Throughout this case, we have received several versions of documents  about  Mr and 
Mrs Ss loan and PPI policy. Some have been signed and some  unsigned.  
In June 2018, another ombudsman sent MPL and Mr and Mrs S a jurisdiction decision 
which explained, amongst other things, how we came to have  unsigned copies in the 
earlier stages of our investigation. So, I am not as concerned as MPL that some 
documents we used  originally were unsigned.  However, we now have signed copies of 
both Mr and Mrs Ss credit agreement and loan application  form and have sent them to 
MPL. Apart from the signatures,  they have no significant differences  from the unsigned 
versions. Im sorry if MPL didnt  receive  them earlier. 
Ref: DRN83126393Mr and Mrs S cant remember  how they bought the policy, so how can they/we hold 
MPL responsible
The jurisdiction decision I mentioned above  concluded very clearly  that although a 
third party had been involved,  MPL was responsible for selling PPI to Mr and Mrs S; so 
I will not say anything further here. 
The policy wasnt expensive 
In my provisional decision,  I said that Mr and Mrs S complained that the cost of the 
policy was ridiculously high.  This was a direct quote from their correspondence with 
us. MPL may well disagree  with them about  this, and I accept that expensive  can be a 
subjective term and that different people may use different adjectives for the same  
cost. However, as I set out it my provisional  decision, Im not satisfied that MPL told Mr 
and Mrs S about the full cost of the PPI and had it done so, I dont think they would 
have bought the policy. I think  they would have based their decision on their 
judgement about  expense  and I think their judgment was reasonable for their 
circumstances. 
Ive considered MPLs  argument that Mr and Mrs S may have taken the extra loan for 
PPI as they couldnt afford to pay for the full PPI premium in a lump sum.  But I dont 
think this justifies MPL not explaining the costs to Mr and Mrs S clearly or means  that it 
sold PPI to them fairly. Nor has MPL shown that it offered Mr and Mrs S a choice of 
different ways to pay. 
MPL understood  that all loans included a pro-rata  refund
As I said in my provisional decision and explained in more  detail above,  many single 
premium PPI policies did not provide a pro-rata refund if customers  repaid their loans 
early. As MPL has not sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss policy,  I cant be totally  sure 
about the precise terms of the policy it sold them. But I know from other complaints 
against MPL that it sold policies  which did not include  such  a refund.  So I think its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs Ss policy would have included one.
Once again, if MPL would like more information about this, I would refer it to our 
website. But I would  also like to reiterate  that in this particular  case,  even if Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy did provide a pro-rata refund, I would still uphold their complaint due to 
MPLs failure to tell them  clearly  about the policys  full costs. 
Turning now to MPLs  comments  that we should time bar Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Our 
adjudicator has already  covered this, but I appreciate that MPL has quite  strong feelings 
about the issue, so I have  looked at the arguments  afresh. Having done so, I dont  agree  that 
I should time bar the case and I will briefly explain why not. 
We (the Financial Ombudsman  Service) cant usually consider  a complaint if a consumer 
brings it to us more  than six years after the event  complained about, or if later, more than 
three years after the date on which the consumer became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that s/he had cause  to complain. 
Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI policy in 2005 and referred their complaint to us early in 2017, 
so there  is no doubt that the initial six year period  had passed. However, they originally 
complained about the cost of the policy and the lack of discussion about whether they 
Ref: DRN83126394needed the cover it provided. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that they were aware of 
these grounds of complaint, or ought reasonably to have been, more than three years before 
they raised them. There may well have  been publicity about PPI in the media,  but I dont 
consider this to be sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S "ought reasonably  to have 
been aware" they had a cause to complain before they did. So I am not time barring their 
complaint. 
Finally, I am sorry that MPL believes this case is flawed. However, I am still satisfied that 
MPL mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs S, and it should  now put things right by paying them  fair 
compensation. 
putting things right 
As Mr and Mrs S borrowed extra to pay for PPI, their loan was bigger than it shouldve been  
and they paid more than they should have  each month. So Mr and Mrs S need to get back  
the extra theyve  paid. 
So, MPL should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs S paid each month  from when 
they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  MPL can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MPL to take off tax from this interest.  MPL must give Mr 
and Mrs S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint against Mansion  Park Limited.  It should put things right by paying them 
the fair compensation I have described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83126395copy  of provisional decision
complaint 
Mr and Mrs S have complained that in 2005 Mansion  Park Limited (MPL)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy linked  with a loan.  They  want MPL to refund them the cost of the 
policy, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators  has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator  found  that Mr and Mrs 
S needed more  flexibility than the policy gave  them  and recommended that MPL should pay them 
compensation. MPL didnt  agree with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case, so it has come to me to consider.  
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mr and Mrs S and MPL have told us or sent us about  the complaint  so far, and I 
currently intend to uphold it. However, my reasons are slightly different  to those  our adjudicator  gave. 
I explain them  below.  
Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI policy  by borrowing extra money to pay for the insurance premium 
which was added to their main loan. They had to pay interest  on this extra  money. Policies  of this type 
are often called single premium policies.  
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor MPL have  been  able to provide us with many details about the way MPL 
sold PPI. Mr and Mrs S have said that they cant recall  when the sale took place. (but they). did 
receive numerous  phone calls and letters in relation to the loan and PPI policy, but cannot recall if 
(they) took out policy via a phone call or by letter. 
Similarly, MPL has not been able to tell us very much or provide  us with a copy  of the PPI policy itself. 
However, I have seen  a copy of the application form which Mr and Mrs S filled in for the loan, along 
with a copy of the credit agreement which they signed. 
The credit  agreement  contained  a mathematical error  where two numbers had been added  together 
incorrectly. MPL has argued that this makes the agreement  invalid for us to use as evidence in this 
complaint. I disagree.  The error was self contained and doesnt seem to have  affected either  the loan 
or the PPI policy, or the money that Mr and Mrs S paid for them. I think  the agreement  is valid 
evidence for me to take into account. 
Mr and Mrs S have told us that MPL recommended the policy to them and advised them  to buy it. I 
have no reason to doubt them on this. This meant that MPL had to check that the policy was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Ss needs and tell them  about  it fairly and clearly so they could decide if they wanted  
it. 
Mr and Mrs S have complained that (the) actual total cost of the PPI policy  was ridiculously  high and 
in no way fair for their circumstances when they took the loan. Im satisfied that keeping costs down 
was very important for them. The credit agreement gave the price of the PPI premium, but it didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs S how much  interest  they would  have to pay for the policy  or set out its monthly or annual 
cost. MPL doesnt  seem to have told Mr and Mrs S about the full cost of the PPI in any other way. 
Had it done so, I dont think they would have bought the policy. 
According to the loan application form, Mr and Mrs S wanted part of their loan to pay back  other debts  
and part of it for home improvements. The loan was set up to run for quite a lengthy period and I think  
Ref: DRN83126396its likely  that Mr and Mrs S may well have considered paying off this loan early  as well. So they 
probably needed the flexibility  to cancel  the PPI policy early and receive  a pro-rata  refund on their 
premium for the period they didnt need  the policy. 
Many single premium  policies sold around the time Mr and Mrs S bought theirs,  including those  sold 
by MPL, did not provide a pro-rata  refund if customers repaid their loans early. As MPL has not sent 
us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss policy I cant be totally sure about its precise terms. However,  MPL 
seems to have accepted  that Mr and Mrs Ss policy did not offer such  a refund, although it has not 
agreed that this was unfair. 
 
The credit  agreement  explained,  albeit  in small print, that Mr and Mrs S would have had to pay a fee if 
they repaid the loan early. MPL has argued that this fee would have been relatively small compared to 
the amount of the loan and so the early refund  conditions were fair for Mr and Mrs S. However, it 
seems to me that this would have been an additional  cost over and above any money that Mr and Mrs 
S would have lost if they did not receive  a pro-rata refund. 
So, I am not satisfied  that the policy gave  Mr and Mrs S the flexibility they needed. I think  this was a 
significant factor for them  and I dont  think  it was reasonable for MPL to recommend the policy to 
them. Nor I am satisfied that MPL explained the policys  lack of flexibility to them.  Had it done so, I 
dont think they would have  bough it. 
 
In summary, there  is not a great  deal of original evidence  about  this complaint.  But it seems to me 
that MPL didnt clearly  explain the cost of the policy  to Mr and Mrs S; and that it recommended  the 
policy to them even though its lack of flexibility made it unsuitable for their needs. Either of these 
shortcomings are grounds for me to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I think MPL mis-sold PPI to 
them. 
MPL should put things right for Mr and Mrs S by paying them fair compensation.  
putting things  right 
As Mr and Mrs S borrowed  extra to pay for PPI, their loan was bigger than it shouldve been and they 
paid more  than they shouldve each month. So Mr and Mrs S need to get back  the extra theyve paid. 
So, MPL should:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between  what they paid each month on the 
loan and what  they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr and Mrs S paid each month from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, MPL can take off what they got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  MPL to take off tax from this interest.  MPL must  give Mr and Mrs 
S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN83126397my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently think that Mansion Park Limited mis-sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S, and I currently intend to tell it to put things right by paying them the compensation I 
have described.
I now invite  both parties to respond  to my provisional  decision by 18 April 2019. I will consider any 
responses they send me before making  a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8312639