K821x#15complaint
Mr J is complaining about the quality of a car he acquired through Close Brothers  Limited on 
a hire purchase agreement.
background
In October  2018 Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement with Close  Brothers to acquire 
a car. Mr J started  to have issues with the car around a week after receiving  it. He said the 
car was losing power, smoke was coming  out of the exhaust, coolant was leaking from the 
engine and he said the engine management  light was on. 
Mr J contacted Close Brothers and the supplying dealership as he said that he didnt want  to 
keep the car any longer and he said he wanted to reject it. He says the supplying  dealership  
told him to take the car to a local manufacturing dealership  to get the faults diagnosed before 
he could reject it. So Mr J took the car to the manufacturing dealership. But the dealership 
carried out the repairs under the cars warranty. Mr J says he didnt  authorise  it to do so.
Close Brothers then told Mr J that he couldnt reject the car any longer because the faults  
had been repaired. Mr J was unhappy with this because he said he hadnt consented to the 
dealership repairing the car. But Close Brothers  said it was his responsibility to ensure that 
he explained  to the dealership that the car was only having a diagnostic  check carried  out.
Mr J also explained that, when he bought the car, the dealership also agreed  to repair a dent 
and refurbish two alloy wheels. But he said that the dealership hadnt  done  so. Close 
Brothers said that Mr J would have to raise this with the dealership.  It also advised him that 
he would  have to collect the car from the dealership as it had been repaired. 
Mr J later contacted Close Brothers to say that the issues  had reoccurred. And he said he 
still wanted to reject it. Close Brothers said that Mr J would need to take the car back  to the 
dealership that did the initial repairs and advise that the repairs had failed.
Close Brothers maintained that, as the repairs were carried out a third party garage without 
its authority, it cant be held responsible if those repairs have failed.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Mr J acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement. Legislation  in this case  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)   implies a term into the hire purchase  agreement that the 
car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance  provider, Close  Brothers is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  Theres  no dispute  
that there  were faults with the car and Close Brothers have accepted  that the faults would 
have been present or developing at the point of sale given they arose eight  days  after Mr J 
acquired it. But Close Brothers said that Mr J couldnt reject the car because  it had been 
repaired.
Im satisfied that Mr J bought a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point  of sale.  Mr J 
paid £28,500 for the car. The car was around three  years old and had travelled  around 
33,400 miles at the point of supply. I dont  think its reasonable to have  expected the issues  
Mr J had with the car to have arisen so soon after he acquired it. So I dont think  the car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN87545232The CRA gives a consumer a short-term right to reject a car in these circumstances if they 
do so within  30 days of receiving it. Mr J first asked to reject  the car within  a few days of 
receiving it. So he says Close Brothers  should have  allowed him to reject  it. I understand 
Close Brothers stance that, because  the car was repaired  by a third party  garage,  Mr J has 
lost his right to reject. But it also needs  to be noted  that Mr J seems to have followed the 
supplying dealerships instructions to take the car to a local manufacturing dealership. So I 
dont think Mr J can reasonably be held responsible for what happened after that. And I 
havent seen anything to say that Mr J acted unreasonably in this respect.
The CRA sets out that a consumer cant exercise their short-term  right to reject  the goods if 
they require or agree  to the repairing of the goods.  But Im satisfied that Mr J didnt require or 
agree to the car being  repaired. And hed made it clear  to Close  Brothers before the repairs  
were carried  out that he wanted to reject it. So I think it was unfair for Close Brothers  to say 
that Mr J had lost his short-term right to reject the car because  the repairs  were carried out 
against his wishes.
But, irrespective of this, the CRA further sets out that the 30 day time limit for exercising  the 
short-term right to reject  stops for the length  of time the car was waiting to be and actually 
repaired. Mr Js car initially went in for repair on 7 November 2018 and it appears that the 
repairs were completed on 13 November 2018   a time period of six days.  So I think  Mr Js 
time limit for being able to exercise  his short-term  right to reject should be extended by six 
days  i.e. until 1 December 2018.
While I accept that the repairs were carried out, I also note that the car broke  down again  on 
26 November 2018 and Mr J asked to reject the car again the next day. So I still think Mr J 
was within  the timescale  to be allowed  to exercise  his short-term right to reject.  Given this, I 
think Mr J was still entitled to exercise his short-term right to reject  the car for the reasons  
Ive set out above. So I think Close Brothers should  have allowed Mr J to reject  the car at 
this point.
I note Close  Brothers comments that the initial repairs were carried out by a third party  
garage. So it cant hold the supplying dealership responsible for this. But the root cause of 
this issue is that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  Its also important 
to note that the repairs were carried out by a manufacturing dealership. And, as I said 
before, Mr J was only following the supplying dealerships  instructions. So I dont think its 
fair he loses out as a result.  
So taking everything into account, I think the CRA  allows  Mr J to reject  the car now. And I 
also think that this is the fair and reasonable outcome too.
And I said that I thought Close Brothers should do the following to put things right:
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Close Brothers  should now allow Mr J to reject the car. I 
recognise that Mr J has had the car since October 2018. But Im persuaded that he hasnt 
used it since November  2018, due to the issues hes had with it. And I understand  that hes 
now acquired a replacement car. So Im satisfied that he hasnt had use of the car since  
November 2018  and I think Close Brothers should refund any payments hes made since  
then.
I also think that this matter has caused  Mr J a lot of distress and inconvenience. Firstly, I 
think its fair to say that Mr J has suffered some  distress for being sold a car which  was of 
unsatisfactory quality,  which he paid a not insignificant amount of money for. But also Mr J 
Ref: DRN87545233has had to pay for another car during this time. And hes shown that this has put him into 
financial difficulties and thats hes in arrears on his council  tax and utility bills. I recognise  
that this may not only be down to having  to pay for two cars, but I think  its likely  that this was 
a contributing factor. Taking all this into consideration, I think  Close  Brothers should pay Mr J 
£500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused  him.
So, in summary,  I think Close Brothers should do the following to put things right:
1.Allow Mr J to reject  the car and arrange  to collect it at no cost to him;
2.Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay  and arrange for any adverse markers 
to be removed from Mr Js credit  file;
3.Refund the deposit of £4,000*;
4.Refund the monthly payments Mr J has paid since  (and including) December 2018 to 
reflect loss of use*; and
5.Pay £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr J.
*It should  add 8% simple interest  per year on each of these payments from when he paid 
them until he gets it back. If Close Brothers  thinks  that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr J how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give Mr J a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax 
if appropriate.
Close Brothers didnt  respond  to my provisional decision. Mr J accepted  my provisional 
decision, but he also said that hed insured  this car and his replacement  car. And he thought 
Close Brothers should refund this cost too. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to think  about,  I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So Ive decided  to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out above.
Mr J has said that he thinks Close Brothers  should refund the premium he paid for his 
insurance policy because  he hasnt used the car and had to take out finance on another  car. 
But the insurance policy on the replacement  car was in his fathers name.  Mr J says that this 
was done to keep costs  down. But Im not persuaded that Mr J has had to pay for two 
insurance premiums. So I dont think I can reasonably require Close  Brothers to refund the 
amount he paid for his insurance  policy. So I still think Close  Brothers should do the 
following to put things right:
1.Allow Mr J to reject  the car and arrange  to collect it at no cost to him;
2.Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay  and arrange for any adverse markers 
to be removed from Mr Js credit  file;
3.Refund the deposit of £4,000*;
4.Refund the monthly payments Mr J has paid since  (and including) December 2018 to 
reflect loss of use*; and
5.Pay £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr J.
Ref: DRN87545234*It should  add 8% simple interest  per year on each of these payments from when he paid 
them until he gets it back. If Close Brothers  thinks  that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr J how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give Mr J a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax 
if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint  and I require Close Brothers  
Limited to compensate Mr J in line with my instructions  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754523