K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy that she took out with a mortgage in 2011.
background
Mrs G took out a PPI policy to cover her mortgage  repayments. The policy covered Mrs G 
against accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 12 months in any one claim. The 
cost of PPI was around £12.36 a month.  
 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  it should be upheld. RBS disagreed, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, I think his complaint should be upheld.
It seems  the sale of PPI took place in branch and Im not certain what was discussed  about 
PPI. Mrs G says she had no knowledge of what this cover was for. RBS said it would have 
made the optional  nature  of the policy clear, but it says no advice was given about the 
suitability of the policy.
Whether or not advice was given, there were certain  things  RBS needed to do. It needed  to 
explain to Mrs G what the PPI covered so she understood what she was buying as well as 
drawing her attention  to any limitations  or exclusions.
RBS has explained  some of its processes at the time. It said Mrs G would have needed  to fill 
in an application  and direct debit form for the PPI. And it said Mrs G would have been 
provided with the policy  documents  after the policy started, setting out the benefits,  
exclusions and limitations. 
But Mrs G needed to be given information about the policys  benefits and limitations  before 
she decided to take it out. And based  on the information I have available,  I cant  see that she 
was given the information she needed.  For example, I cant see that it was made  clear  to 
Mrs G that the PPI paid out for up to 12 months  after a waiting period.
Ive thought about what I think  Mrs G would have  done if she had this information at the time. 
Shes said that she was entitled to at least 12 months of sick pay from his employer and she 
has provided evidence  of this. Based on this, I think the level of sick pay Mrs G had was 
plausible. And I think she would have been entitled  to some redundancy pay, should she 
have been made unemployed.
Based on this, I dont  think  Mrs G would have  taken out the PPI policy if she had been  given 
clearer information at the time. I think she has lost out as a result  of the way PPI was sold, 
so I think RBS needs to do something  to put things right.
Ref: DRN83882022what the business should  do to put things right
RBS should put Mrs G in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and RBS should:
Pay Mrs G the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, RBS can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must  give Mrs G a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint, and to direct  Nationwide Building 
Society to put things  right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8388202