K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which Mr M 
says he bought with a mortgage in 1989.
Santander UK Plc is now responsible for answering  this complaint but at the time it was 
trading under the Abbey National brand. Mr M says that during the application process he 
was made  to feel the MPPI was compulsory and something he had to buy to get his 
mortgage approved.
For consistency and to keep things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Santander.
background
I can see this complaint has been with us a while and Im sorry about that. However  this has 
been a relatively  unusual  case  where, due to the age of the sale,  its been  very difficult to get 
to the bottom  of what happened. Its also been unfortunate that Santander  originally told Mr 
M he didnt have any MPPI  and then took quite  a while to furnish information relevant  to our 
investigation.
However, I can also see weve been keeping Mr M informed and one of our adjudicators has 
assessed this case and told Mr M the complaint  about the policy  being  mis-sold shouldnt be 
upheld. They also told him that he wasnt due back any money for the commission 
Santander might have received from premiums Mr M was charged during  the time he had 
the policy.
Mr M disagreed with this and asked for the complaint to be passed  for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. And Im afraid dont 
think Mr M is due anything back  for the commission element either. 
The first thing to acknowledge is that this sale was in 1989. So its not unusual  that 
Santander couldnt provide much at all by way of sale documentation. Its electronic records  
of the sale are also very sparsely populated and we know  he took out further borrowing, 
(with a different  mortgage  number being applied)  in 2001.
I can see that Mr M doesnt think its right that Santander has so little information left. Hes 
told us that having demonstrated  he had an MPPI policy and put forward some  reasons as 
to why he thinks it was mis-sold, its now up to Santander to prove otherwise.
Im afraid I dont agree with this. Its simply not reasonable to expect all the relevant 
paperwork to still be available after almost  30 years,  not least because businesses have 
certain other  responsibilities around  weeding  records and data protection. Businesses  are 
not required to keep records indefinitely.
Ref: DRN85768362Did Mr M agree to the MPPI?
The first thing I need to consider here is whether Mr M agreed to the policy. He said it was 
implied the MPPI had to be agreed  to. But Santander doesnt  accept  this and points out that 
its never been a requirement to have MPPI with their mortgages. Theres  no application 
form so Ive given  thought  to whats more likely to have happened.
Ive seen a welcome  letter about the MPPI  which Mr M would have been sent just after the 
sale. This letter talks about him applying for the policy and theres nothing to indicate  he 
needed to buy it. Its from a third-party  insurer and invites Mr M to contact it with any 
concerns. The accompanying policy rules sent with the letter also begin  by saying the 
insurance has been arranged for borrowers  who have applied for cover.
I accept this is isnt conclusive. But it certainly doesnt portray  the MPPI as compulsory. So 
theres as much to say the policy was recommended to Mr M - as there is to speculate  
about it being compulsory. And if Im to hold Santander to account  for not having  many 
documents still available, I need to do the same for Mr M. By this I mean that nothing Mr M 
has sent us shows  he was told or made  to buy the cover or that he didnt have a choice.
So whilst I dont doubt that Mr M honestly  and genuinely believes now that he was mis-sold 
the cover, other than him saying so theres simply no evidence of this. In fact, what  we do 
still have access to points,  in my view,  the other way. 
On balance I think hes more likely  to have consented to the MPPI  at the time. 
Was the MPPI suitable?
Santander accepts  it probably recommended this cover to Mr M when he met with the 
mortgage adviser. It therefore had a duty to make sure it was suitable for Mr Ms situation.  
Overall, I think it was.
This is because Mr M appears  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions  we sometimes see in these policies. Although  he said he cant  
remember from that far back, I think its possible Mr M would have already had some 
sickness protection with his job at the time. Ive thought very carefully  about  this and all the 
circumstances Mr M told us about.  But I dont think that made the MPPI unsuitable for him. 
The mortgage was secured against  his home and so the consequences of him not being 
able to keep up payments  could have been serious.  In the event  of a successful claim, the 
MPPI was payable for up to 5 years  for sickness / disability and for 12 months for 
unemployment. This wouldve been  in addition to any other means  he already had in place 
at the time. 
So although  I cant say why Mr M decided to buy this policy, I dont think  Santander  
recommending it to him was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable for him. Indeed  
Mr M himself told us he went  on to make a claim.
 
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  if he was told everything  he ought to have  been.  But I can see the 
costs of the cover were  set out on the letter Ive mentioned, as were  the details about  what  
was covered. So I think he had enough  information on which to make  an informed decision. 
I note he was also sent a number of letters in later years explaining changes to the MPPI.
Ref: DRN85768363Summary
I completely understand Mr M feels strongly  that the MPPI was mis-sold. But all these  
things show me its more likely that this wasnt  the case. And when the hard  evidence  just 
no longer exists, in old cases  like this, thats  the approach we take.
Finally, Im going to deal with the commission element.  Weve  explained to Mr M that 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) issued new rules a while  ago about cases where 
businesses received over 50% of a policys premium  in either  commission  or profit share.
Our adjudicator looks to me to have gone  into some  considerable detail with Santander to 
establish if Mr Ms case is relevant  to these rules. As a result  of what both Mr M and 
Santander have  provided we think his MPPI  was cancelled in the 1990s,  which  is itself a 
very long time ago. We also know that the rate Ive mentioned above was below 50% 
during that time period so I dont think Mr M is due any money  back  for this. Ive taken a 
great deal of time and care in checking this information.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. And I dont direct  Santander UK Plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8576836