K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. didnt  give her the right advice  when  her flights  were  cancelled. And that it 
refused to pay her claim under her travel policy.
background
Mrs G bought this annual policy on 28 March 2017. She was due to go on a trip on 5 April. 
The following  day her airline called her and told her, it was cancelling  her flights  for 5 April 
and offered to re-route her itinerary. But its proposals werent  that convenient to Mrs G. The 
airline also offered  to refund her flight costs. 
She telephoned Mapfre and wanted  to make a claim as she had bought her original flights 
on a good deal and the refund  was insufficient  to buy new flights then, which were more 
convenient to her.
Mapfre said her claim wouldnt  be covered because the airline had given her more than 24 
hours notice. Mapfre then told her that her claim could have been considered under the 
abandonment clause, if the policy had been suitable. This was incorrect  advice. 
The actual problem  was the destination Mrs G was intending to go on 5 April wasnt actually 
covered by this policy. So for this trip in any event, her policy  would not have provided any 
cover. 
Mapfre consequently refused to consider her claim. So Mrs G brought  her complaint to us.
The adjudicator thought  Mapfre  couldnt  pay her claim. But she also thought Mapfre should  
refund the premium,  given that there was no cover  for her intended destination.
Mapfre agreed with this but Mrs G didnt  so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint but for the refund of the premium Mrs G paid. Ill now explain why. 
Its clear as the adjudicator explained in her view that Mrs G didnt suffer  any delayed flights  
just cancelled and re-scheduled flights. This meant she had no claim under the clause 
concerning abandoning  your trip as that merely concerns concern flight  delays of more than 
24 hours. 
Neither does her claim fall into the clause concerning delayed departure  for the same 
reasons. She didnt  suffer any delayed departure.  
However, the most important problem is that Mrs G bought  a policy,  which didnt provide 
cover for the country she was due to visit. She said she had called up first to check it would 
cover this country but Mapfre  hasnt been able to locate that call. And Mrs G wasnt able to 
be more specific as to when and what time she made that call. However, her policy schedule 
clearly shows  this country isnt a covered  destination  for this policy.  This would have been 
available to Mrs G once  she had bought  the policy.
Ref: DRN83986442The problem is that Mapfre  should have noted this in the first call Mrs G made to it when she 
had been informed her flights were  cancelled and to be rescheduled. That was on 29 March.  
That was the day after she had bought  the policy so Mrs G was within her 14-day cooling off 
period. 
But that wouldnt have  helped here in any meaningful way, as the event for which she was 
making a claim had already happened. So consequently at that time no upgrade of any 
policy, as Mrs G subsequently  said she should have been offered, would have covered this 
situation.
Mrs G told us that in that call, she was told she had to go on the trip as otherwise she 
wouldnt be able to make  a claim. Ive very carefully listened to that call. She wasnt  told this. 
She was simply told that because the airline had given her more  than 24 notice of its 
cancellation and re-scheduling of her flights, she didnt have any claim.
However, from the start,  as in Mrs Gs call on 29 March  to make a claim, Mapfre  should  have  
noted her policy  didnt cover her for her intended destination. Therefore, I agree it should 
refund Mrs G the premium she paid.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this claim but for the return  of 
the premium Mrs G paid, which Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. should now refund.  It should add interest of 8% simple  per year from the 
date Mrs G paid it to the date of its refund.*
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A considers that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  also give her a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8398644