K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TI) recorded incorrect  
information on his credit file.
Background
In September  2018 Mr J wished to buy some goods and was advised  to pay monthly. 
However, his application  for credit with a bank I will call B was declined. He contacted TI and 
noticed that his credit  report contained entries  for another  person with a similar name. He 
reported this to TI and it arranged to have the credit file amended  to remove the erroneous 
entries.
Mr J asked that TI confirm with B that it had revised  its view of his credit rating, but it said 
that he would have to contact B direct. TI offered Mr J £2,000 in compensation, but later said 
this was an error and it should have been £200. In due course it increased its offer to £250. 
Mr J was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint  to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld.
He sought further clarification from TI and it said there was no record  of anyone accessing  
Mr Js file other than Mr J. He also explained that this service didnt deal with complaints  
about data protection and suggested  Mr J contact  the Information  Commissioners  Office  
(ICO) if he wished to pursue this issue. Mr J didnt agree and said that he wanted 
confirmation from B that any future  loan requests would not take account of the erroneous 
entries made  in the earlier credit report. He said he didnt trust TI and he believed all it had 
done was change a few entries on a computer and offered him a small sum to go away.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
I can appreciate Mr Js annoyance at being  declined credit and then discovering this was 
due to an error made by TI in its recording of his credit details. Credit  agencies deal with 
huge amounts  of data and it can happen that information relating to a different person with 
the same  name can find its way on to the wrong  file. As such  I dont  believe there was any 
deliberate intent on TIs part.
As soon  as the error  was brought to its attention TI amended Mr Js file and so if one was to 
look at his credit status there would be no reference to the incorrect data. Therefore, I dont 
consider Mr Js credit status has been  compromised  beyond  the original  issue.  It can take a 
few weeks for the information to be available to third parties, but having  seen his subsequent 
file I am satisfied that the errors have been removed.
I recognise Mr J is concerned that B will retain  its view of his credit status, but it is usual for 
any new lending request to be considered in the light of a current examination  of the 
Ref: DRN80078952applicants credit file and therefore  I can see no basis to conclude that this will cause Mr J 
any future problems in obtaining  credit.
I note Mr J doubts TIs assertion that it has no record of anyone  else accessing his personal 
information. I can understand  his point of view,  but I have no reason to believe that it has lied 
to this service. Just because another persons data found  its way on to Mr Js credit  file it 
doesnt necessarily  follow that the reverse occurred. 
It is unfortunate that TI made what appears to be a typo in its original offer, but 
compensation of £2,000 is way beyond what this service would recommend in the 
circumstances. Given the error with the original offer I consider the final offer of £250 to be 
more than fair.
My final decision
TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL  UK LIMITED has already made  an offer to pay £250  to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED  should pay £250. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 March 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8007895