K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr S says he didnt know that PPI had been  added  to his credit  card account. I dont doubt  
the honesty of this recollection. But Im not persuaded thats likely to have been the case 
given the information available.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mr Ss credit  agreement. Having looked at it, I can see 
that there  was a section called Credit Card  Repayments Cover. And in that section it said 
the following  Yes I want to arrange  Credit Card Repayments Cover to protect my 
repayments. This was immediately followed  by a box that has an X in it. This looks like it 
was computer generated and it is, in my view,  the likely result of a conversation  between  
Mr S and BoS as theres nothing persuasive to suggest otherwise. Whats more,  as he went 
on to commit to PPI by signing the agreement right next to the box Ive referred to, I find it 
hard to argue that he didnt agree to take the policy  or that that theres  the evidence  to say 
he only agreed because  he had to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr S  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, I think that it was right for him 
overall. He doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover in such a way that persuades me the recommendation was unsuitable.  And based on 
what hes told us about his sick pay and ability to keep up with his repayments using other 
means, he seems to have  had a need  for the cover.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr S clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I dont think the policy was an unsuitable  
recommendation to have  made, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
him off taking it out as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr S paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give him back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what  Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr S.
Ref: DRN85811882my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8581188