K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the treatment  they received  from Bank of Scotland  plc, trading 
as Birmingham Midshires, in early 2018. They say the bank misled  them  about the legal 
action it was taking  in respect of their mortgage, and they incurred unnecessary  solicitors  
costs as a result.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out, I concluded that the bank hadnt been  unreasonable  in taking legal 
action. But I thought it had caused Mr and Mrs F unnecessary anxiety and distress  during 
one of its calls with Mrs F. I proposed  that it pay them £300 by way of compensation.
I invited Mr and Mrs F and the bank to let me have any further  evidence  or arguments they 
wanted me to consider before making  my final decision. Neither party accepted  my 
provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs F said, in summary:
-My finding that they owed the bank a large amount and hadnt repaid it on time had 
coloured my approach  to their case, and may have diminished any empathy or sympathy 
for them. That situation had in part arisen because  they had paid early and the banks 
system had wrongly reflected payments as late, and because the bank hadnt told them  
their monthly payments had gone  up. The fact the bank hadnt taken legal action  much  
sooner reflected this. 
-They had paid £999 for legal  help because they were panicking. Mr F was abroad, and 
Mrs F was scared and intimidated.  They had very little time to decide what to do, and felt 
they had no real choice but to instruct the specialist solicitor  they did. They almost 
certainly would  have made a different decision, had they received the banks 22 March 
letter sooner.  The bank was wrong to have sent that letter  second  class, and the arrears 
charges they have  paid could have allowed it to use first-class post.
-The bank  should also have been  clearer  telling  them it may adjourn the hearing was 
disingenuous.
-Saying Mrs F was anxious and worried on the 23 March  call with the bank was a serious  
understatement. They should receive  more than £300 for the level of psychological harm 
it caused.
The bank provided another recording of the 23 March call, and said it didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong  on the call. It didnt see why it should pay any compensation. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN86595972There were significant  arrears on the mortgage by March 2018. Mr and Mrs F hadnt made 
any payments for several months, and there  were no arrangements  for payment in place. I 
have noted Mr and Mrs Fs further comments about  this, but I remain of the view that the 
banks decision to take legal action when  it did was not unreasonable  against that 
background.
I also dont think it was wrong of the bank to say it may defer the court hearing in its 22 
March letter.  Its decision about deferral was dependent on any payment proposals Mr and 
Mrs F made, so I wouldnt have expected it to give any guarantees.
Mr F is right to say that the level of arrears  charges  should  reflect  the cost of arrears 
administration to the lender. But that doesnt have to be based on its costs in dealing  with 
each individual  borrower. The bank was entitled to decide by what  means  it would send 
letters. And I consider  that it had already been  clear  enough about  its intentions before it 
sent the letter on 22 March. Mr and Mrs F had already had some  time to try to arrange  to 
reduce the arrears.
I still think the bank  misled Mrs F about the only possible outcomes  of the court  action during 
the call on 23 March,  as I set out in my provisional decision, and that this caused  
unnecessary stress and anxiety. However,  I think  much of the stress Mrs F was under was 
down to the arrears  on the mortgage. I remain of the view that this was made worse as a 
result of the information  she was given on the call on 23 March  but not to the extent that I 
find it appropriate to increase my proposed award of £300. I think the representative Mrs F 
spoke to was sympathetic. And, for the reasons I explained in my provisional  decision, I 
dont require the bank to refund the solicitors fee Mr and Mrs F paid. 
So, while I realise  this is not the outcome either  Mr and Mrs F or the bank were hoping  for, I 
confirm my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Birmingham Midshires, should pay Mr 
and Mrs F £300 in full and final settlement  of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 December  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86595973copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the treatment  they received  from Bank of Scotland  plc, trading 
as Birmingham Midshires, in early 2018. They say the bank misled  them  about the legal 
action it was taking  in respect of their mortgage, and they incurred unnecessary  solicitors  
costs as a result.
background
In early 2018, Mr and Mrs F were  in arrears on their mortgage with Birmingham Midshires.  
The last payment to the mortgage  had been  made in September  2017. There were a number  
of conversations between Mr and Mrs F and the bank discussing the situation, and the bank 
sent Mr and Mrs F various letters.
In February 2018,  the bank applied for a hearing date for possession  of the mortgaged 
property. The date was set for 27 March 2018.  More calls and e-mails followed. 
On 16 March, the bank  wrote to Mr and Mrs F saying it wouldnt defer the hearing date 
because of the level of arrears  and because no arrangement for payment was in place. But it 
said it would  cancel the hearing  if the arrears were  cleared before the hearing date. It also 
said it would  prefer to come to an arrangement with Mr and Mrs F than evict them  from their 
home.
On 22 March, in response to e-mails  from Mr and Mrs F, the bank sent them  another letter.  It 
said that, now it had information about their income and expenditure, it may defer the 
hearing if Mr and Mrs F reduced the level of arrears to less than three months.  Mr and Mrs F 
say the letter  arrived by second-class post,  so they didnt  receive  it until 26 March.
In the meantime, on 23 March, Mrs F e-mailed  the bank, saying she would be making a 
payment on 26 March. She also phoned  the bank. There was a long discussion about  
Mr and Mrs Fs payment proposals  and the forthcoming court hearing. Mrs F says the bank 
told her the hearing  couldnt be stopped, and her proposal for payment would be taken into 
account by the court.
On 24 March, Mr and Mrs F instructed  a solicitor to represent them  at the hearing. They say 
they felt they had no other choice, and paid £999 for the solicitor. Mrs F then phoned the 
bank on 26 March and said she could pay just over £8,000. She later made that payment, 
and the hearing  was adjourned. No costs were awarded.
Mr and Mrs F complained. They said they could have avoided  paying a solicitors  fee if the 
bank had told them what was in its 22 March letter when Mrs F called on 23 March  
because the hearing could have  been  deferred.  They wanted  a refund of both the fee and 
their call costs.
The bank said it had done nothing wrong, so it wasnt prepared  to pay any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs F got in touch with us. Our investigator concluded that they couldnt  have  paid 
the bank enough to stop the hearing  before the court date. So she thought  Mr and Mrs Fs 
position would have been the same, even if the bank had told them  about the 22 March letter 
Ref: DRN86595974on 23 March. She also thought the bank was reasonable in taking  legal action given the 
history of mortgage arrears.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  accept that conclusion. They still thought the banks failings had resulted  
in their paying £999 unnecessarily. They said they had paid enough before the hearing date 
for the bank to have adjourned the hearing, and pointed out that a member of the banks  
staff had suggested they complain to get their solicitors fee back.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The bank has a duty to treat Mr and Mrs F fairly, and seeking possession  of the property 
should be a last resort. The mortgage  had been in arrears  for a number of years  and, by the 
time the bank applied  for a hearing date in February 2018, no payments had been received 
to the mortgage  for around five months. In the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude  that the 
bank was unreasonable in taking legal action when  it did.
That, of course, isnt the point Mr and Mrs F are making. Their complaint is that the bank 
misled them  into thinking the court hearing would go ahead when it could have been 
avoided. But I think the context in which this happened is important here.  
Part of that context  is what happened earlier in 2018. Mr and Mrs F had asked the bank to 
stop legal  action before and had complained about  its refusal to do so. I think the bank was 
clear that it wouldnt stop further action, because of the arrears and because  no arrangement 
to repay  them  was in place.  
I have also to take account of the records the bank has provided  of Mr and Mrs Fs 
undertakings to pay which  they didnt keep to. Those include a payment of £11,000 which  
Mr and Mrs F said theyd  made in February 2018  but which never  reached  the bank, and an 
£18,000 bonus payment Mr and Mrs F said they were expecting in March  2018 but which  
didnt reach  the bank  either.
Mr and Mrs F were  in a very difficult situation and, understandably, wanted  to avoid a court 
hearing. Ive listened  to recordings  of the calls Mrs F had with the bank in the run-up to the 
March 2018 hearing date,  and its clear that Mrs F was very anxious and worried about  the 
situation.
The staff member Mrs F spoke to on 23 March didnt  mention the banks letter  dated  the 
previous day; she also said the only possible outcomes of the court  hearing  were an order  or 
a suspended order for possession of the property. I think that was misleading and unhelpful, 
and unnecessarily exacerbated what was already a very worrying  situation for Mr and Mrs F.  
However, Im not satisfied  that the bank would ultimately have deferred the hearing if Mr and 
Mrs F had made a payment sooner, given the history of arrears and promised payments not 
being made. The banks 22 March letter didnt give any guarantees about this. It said the 
bank may be prepared to defer the hearing, but Mr and Mrs F should call to discuss the 
matter. That is exactly what Mrs F did on 23 March  and the bank decided  not to defer  the 
hearing.
Ref: DRN86595975So I dont  consider the date of the payment  of around £8,000 is the key point here (although 
the banks records  say it was made on the morning of the day of the hearing).  The bank had 
been clear with Mr and Mrs F over a number of weeks  that it was taking legal action and, in 
the circumstances, I think  it was understandable that it wanted to go ahead  following its 
discussions with Mr and Mrs F. Besides that, in considering Mr and Mrs Fs claim for the 
£999 solicitors fee, Im mindful that there  are other  services they could have sought help 
and advice from. It was their decision to instruct the solicitor they did and pay a fee at that 
level.
I have to decide a fair and reasonable outcome in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider I can fairly require the bank to 
refund Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors fee. However, I do think the banks  handling of its call with 
Mrs F on 23 March  caused Mr and Mrs F unnecessary anxiety and distress  and that they 
should fairly receive some compensation in recognition  of that. I assess a fair award  at £300.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision  subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive from the 
parties by 1 November  2019  is that I propose to require Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Birmingham Midshires, to pay Mr and Mrs F £300  in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8659597