K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that she was led to believe that a policy sold to her by 
Post Office  Management  Services Limited would work like a savings  account  from which  
shed be able to make withdrawals. However,  shes since discovered that the policy is a 
whole of life insurance policy.  
background
Our investigator was unable to obtain any information about the sale of the policy from the 
Post Office.  So, he was unable to determine  whether  the sale had been advised or 
execution-only. But in any event, he didnt  feel there  was enough to show  that the Post 
Office had made either a suitable  recommendation or provided  Mrs W with enough 
information to make her own informed  decision. 
He noted that Mrs W said she was told by an employee of the Post Office  how the plan 
would work  and that she'd  be able to withdraw  money when she wanted  to. In the absence  
of any evidence to demonstrate otherwise, the investigator accepted Mrs Ws description of 
the sale. To put things right, he recommended that the Post Office refund the premiums Mrs 
W had paid to the policy, plus 8% simple  interest, along with £500 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience created by the Post Offices failure  to provide information within 
the required time limits. 
The Post Office didnt  provide a response to the investigators view,  despite several 
requests, so the matters now been  referred to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive considered Mrs Ws recollections of what she was told at the time of the sale. As no 
alternative account of what  occurred has been given by the Post Office, or contrary evidence 
of any sort offered, I find I have no reason to do anything other than accept Mrs Ws quite 
plausible submissions on face value. As such,  I agree  that the complaint should be upheld. 
In respect of compensation, I think the investigators proposal is broadly fair. There  is an 
argument that the interest rate applicable to the refunded  premiums  should be a benchmark 
savings account  rate, as thats what Mrs W has indicated she thought she was getting, 
rather than 8% simple. But as the Post Office has not questioned this and theres always the 
possibility that Mrs W, if properly  informed,  may have chosen not to take out any sort of 
policy, I see no reason to change the interest rate. 
In respect of the £500 to compensate Mrs W for the unnecessary delay and uncertainty  
created since she raised her complaint in early 2019, our rules (specifically DISP 3.5.14 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority  Handbook  DISP rules that given our work) grant us the 
power to make such an award where theres  been a failure, or failures, to adhere to 
procedural time limits.  So, I think this element of the compensation proposed by the 
investigator is also fair.
Ref: DRN87238882my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Post Office 
Management Services Limited to refund to Mrs W all the premiums paid to the policy,  plus 
8% simple  interest from the point each premium  was paid to the date of settlement. The Post 
Office must also pay £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8723888