K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed  his current  account and credit card and 
registered a default as he did not pay back his overdraft borrowing. He complains about the 
poor customer service he has received.
background
Mr B was a longstanding  premier banking customer of HSBC. It says that it contacted him 
in September  2018 to review his overdraft. It decided to give him two months notice  to close 
his account and credit card. And HSBC told him he would  need to pay back  his overdraft by 
then. He did not do so and HSBC  issued a notice of default, final demand and referred his 
debt to recoveries.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC had 
shown it had written to Mr B in January and July 2018. It had then told him it had concerns 
that there  were not sufficient regular credits  into the account. And HSBC invited him to get in 
contact about  the arrangement.  Nothing  had been arranged and it wrote  to him to give the 
required two months  notice of the account  closure in September 2018. He did not pay off 
the overdraft which  was strictly repayable on demand. 
Mr B was also unhappy that his personal account had not been managed together  with his 
business ones  in the past. But our investigator said that this was a matter  for HSBC to 
decide upon and we wouldnt be looking at its processes. And although  Mr B had said he 
was unhappy  generally with HSBCs service he had not identified  specific  instances  that we 
could look into.
Mr B did not agree.  He said that the issues at HSBC have not been  addressed  and the way 
it operates is not acceptable and it is getting away with bad behaviour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  why Mr B is upset at the way HSBC has dealt with his accounts.  He says 
he had an impeccable  credit record and has been  banking with HSBC  and its predecessor 
for a number of years. He cant believe  how HSBC  has acted.
But we dont  have  a role in saying  what processes  HSBC puts in place generally. Here as 
the investigator has said it told Mr B about  its concerns earlier  in 2018. It expected  a greater 
level of payments into the account to support the overdraft  borrowing. That didnt happen. I 
can see from its case notes that it tried to discuss this with Mr B in January 2018.  It also 
notes that it phoned him in September 2018  for an annual review and that he did not want to 
discuss the overdraft.  
My understanding is that this led to a decision that it would not provide the overdraft or 
banking facilities for him in the future. HSBC  issued a letter giving  him the two months  
notice of the closure of the account required under its terms and conditions.
Mr B raised a complaint about this and before the account was closed HSBC explained that 
it was not going to be changing its decision.  I can see that in correspondence  Mr B had 
Ref: DRN86240122offered to repay  the overdraft  in January 2019  when he said he would be receiving a 
sizeable payment  from his pension. HSBC could  have still taken a view about  this but it was 
entitled to make its own decision about what was acceptable.
Mr B was not in a position to repay the overdraft and to respond to the default notice and 
then final demand.  So unfortunately a default was registered and the matter  was referred to 
debt collectors.
I dont have anything  to add to what our investigator has said about the level of service 
provided or about  HSBC not combining the management of his personal  and business  
accounts. I dont  find on the evidence it provided  poor service.  So in conclusion  I dont have 
a basis to find HSBC  has made a mistake.  Im afraid  HSBC had the discretion to take these 
decisions about Mr Bs account  and borrowing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8624012