K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain,  in summary  that Santander  UK Plc did not do enough  to help them 
recover the money they had paid to a binary options trading platform (the merchant) using 
their Santander VISA  debit card. 
As Mr G had most of the dealings with Santander, for ease, Ill refer to him alone in this 
decision. 
Background
After seeing an advertisement for an entity  offering binary  options  trading Mr G made  five 
payments to them totalling  £25,484 from May 2018  to June 2018. 
Mr G received small returns  from the merchant but by September  2018,  Mr G realised there 
was a problem  when he tried to withdraw  his available  balances  and was unsuccessful.
Mr G contacted Santander in September 2018  to report the problem. Between  September  
2018 to December 2018, Santander asked for various pieces of evidence  from Mr G which 
he duly supplied.  It ultimately declined to process chargebacks for him because  it concluded  
his claim was outside the 120-day time limit set by the card scheme  - VISA. 
Santander acknowledged it could have provided a better  service to Mr G and gave him 
conflicting information, so it paid a total of £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator concluded,  first of all, that he was persuaded the merchant was more  than 
likely operating a scam. He further  found that Santander should have submitted the 
chargeback claim and it was incorrect to say that Mr G was outside the chargeback 
timescales. As a result, he suggested  that Santander should refund to Mr G his outstanding 
money, plus interest. 
Although Mr G accepted the investigators  recommendation, Santander did not. It said it 
could not consider the payments as fraudulent as they had been authorised  by Mr G. It also 
stated it displays a message on its online banking whenever a customer  initiates a new 
payment via its online banking platform. Santander  said it opted not to process  chargebacks 
because of its previous experience processing  claims of a similar  nature. And whilst Mr G 
did provide  evidence  of a screenshot of his trading platform and a withdrawal request, they 
were on different days. It provided an example  of a case  that was decided  by VISA at 
arbitration where this point was concluded.   
The complaint has, therefore,  been referred  to me for review  and determination.  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive  as some of it is here  I reach my conclusions on the balance  of probabilities;  
that is, what  I consider  is most  likely  to have happened  in light of the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Ref: DRN80998082To begin with, there is no dispute  that Mr G agreed to make four payments to the merchant. 
Mr G explains  he was persuaded to open his account with the merchant because of 
promises of guaranteed high returns and it was endorsed by a well-known TV programme. 
But he became suspicious  when those  profits  didnt materialise, and he was asked to keep 
his money on the platform for longer to generate more profit.
Our investigator looked into the merchants background and determined,  on balance, that it 
was operating as a scam binary  options  trading  platform. There  was evidence  available in 
the public domain,  (including  a warning  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority by the time of the 
second transaction) that the merchant was unlicensed, and several of its apparent  trading 
practices were indicators  of fraud. The investigator also concluded that this should have  
been reasonably  apparent to Santander  when it received Mr Gs chargeback  claim  in 
particular, pressure to pay more money and stalling withdrawal attempts  such that 
Santander should have identified the merchant was more than likely operating  fraudulently. 
In all the circumstances, therefore,  I share  the investigators view that Santander should  
have been more alert to the various  adverse indicators  and used the good  practice expected 
of it, to have been monitoring accounts  for potential fraud.  Whilst Santander doesnt appear  
to have flagged any transactions  as fraudulent to have given Mr G an effective warning, it 
doesnt change that, Mr G had a valid dispute  right under the VISA chargeback  scheme  
rules. 
In October  2017 VISA expanded its rules  to include  a dispute  right that covered claims of 
binary/investment trading merchants blocking cardholders from withdrawing  their available  
balances. When  VISA updated its rules,  it also issued guidance  to its clients about the 
reasons behind  its decision for this. In summary,  law enforcement had raised issues with it 
about unlicensed merchants carrying out deceptive practices and blocking cardholders  from 
withdrawing available balances. Those  deceptive practices appear to match  Mr Gs 
description of his dealings with the merchant, in that he was promised high returns and 
access to his funds   which did not transpire.   
I also share our investigators view that Mr G had made a chargeback request in time and 
within the 120-day time limit. I dont think Santander appropriately considered  that this time 
limit began from the date Mr G expected to receive the services  from the merchant, i.e. the 
date of his withdrawal  request. And the only other relevant time limit imposed by VISA  was 
that the claim should not be processed  later than 540 days after the transaction date and Mr 
G was well within this time limit.
Whilst Santander has explained that Mr G didnt provide evidence of his account balance on 
the same day as his withdrawal request,  Santander are the experts. I wouldnt expect Mr G 
to have known the specific evidence required of him when he brought his concerns to 
Santander. But had Santander asked for the specific evidence  it needed, Im persuaded 
Mr G would have supplied it, as he supplied  information to Santander whenever it asked him 
to. 
I cannot know for certain whether the merchant would have defended the claim. But Im 
satisfied Mr G had a strong enough  claim for Santander to have processed chargebacks and 
if required,  asked VISA to have  made  a final determination at arbitration. Given  the dispute 
rights available to Mr G and VISAs own acknowledgement  about  deceptive merchants (like 
the one in dispute), I think  its more than likely the claim would have been found in Mr Gs 
favour. This would have either been  through; the merchant not responding to the claim, or 
VISA finding  in Santanders  favour at arbitration. Mr G has now lost the opportunity of 
Ref: DRN80998083recovering his funds  through the chargeback scheme as its too late for Santander to now 
process chargeback claims for him. So, it follows that Santander should be responsible for 
Mr Gs loss. 
Ive noted Santanders comments around  providing an online banking  scam warning when  a 
customer makes a bank  transfer. But I dont  think this is relevant to this particular complaint 
because the transactions were made using Mr Gs debit card, rather  than via online banking.  
Santander paid Mr G £100 for its delays and a further £100 for misleading  him  making the 
total award £200. Whilst I think these  payments in isolation  were fair and reasonable, I think 
Santander ought to pay Mr G a further  £100 for what I consider to be an overall failing of its 
handling of his chargeback claim.  I recognise the scam  merchant is responsible  for much of 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr G. But I think Santander had multiple opportunities to 
better assist him with his chargeback claim and failed at each stage.  Given  the amounts Mr 
G had lost to what he strongly believed to be a scam I think Santanders failings have had an 
impact on him. 
Im aware that an increase in compensation hasnt previously been  awarded. But given 
where we are in the complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons I have  explained, my Final Decision is that I uphold  this complaint. To settle 
it, Santander UK PLC should:
Pay to Mr and Mrs G the total sum paid to the merchant  between  May 2018  June 
2018  less any credits Mr and Mrs G received from the merchant. 
Pay interest to Mr and Mrs G on the above sums, at the simple rate of 8% per year 
on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) from the date Mr G requested 
Santander UK PLC to process chargebacks; and
Pay a further  £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8099808