K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Miss B has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) provided her with 
a loan when she wasnt able to afford it. 
background
In December 2017 ELL gave Miss B a loan for £3,000 repayable over three years.  It was a 
high interest loan with an interest rate of 149.3% APR. The total charge for the credit was 
£5,989.56, which meant  the total amount repayable by Miss B for the £3,000  she was 
borrowing, was £8,989.56. The monthly repayments were £249.71. Miss Bs net salary was 
recorded as approximately £2,600 a month  on the disposable income calculator provided by 
ELL. She had several pay day loans. The schedule of Miss Bs loans compiled by ELL, 
showed she was making monthly payments of £1,240 to her creditors.
In its response to Miss Bs complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out to repay payday 
loans. It also explained that it carried out suitability and affordability checks  on all loan 
applications. It went on to say that her salary was evidenced from her bank statement and 
payslip. It said this provided an average  income  of £2,524.66 a month. A credit  search  had 
also been carried out. 
ELL went on to say that when calculating the affordability of the loan,  it allocated  35% of 
Miss Bs monthly income as her living expenses,  which was £914.80. She paid £750 in rent. 
Its affordability calculation  showed that after consolidating debt with the proposed loan, she 
had disposable  income of £60.05 a month after making the loan monthly repayment. It was 
satisfied the loan was affordable.
Miss Bs concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators. He explained why he 
thought ELL hadnt been wrong to lend the money.  Miss B didnt agree so, the case  has 
been passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2021. I explained why I thought Miss Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Miss B acknowledged  my decision and ELL said that it 
accepted it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As ELL has accepted my provisional decision and Miss B hasnt made any further 
submissions, I see no reason to change the findings and conclusion that I have already set 
out in this case. So, Ive set out my reasoning again below. 
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Miss B 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loan.
Ref: DRN879318421)Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable  way? 
The rules  that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Miss B could afford to repay the loan she was wanting to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  ELL needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause  Miss B any difficulties  or have any adverse consequences  
for her. It would  also need to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Miss B had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Miss Bs ability  to repay,  
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether ELL completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Miss B was applying  for a high-cost credit product which  had an APR of 149.3%
Miss B was recorded  by ELL as having  a monthly income of approximately £2,600. 
The monthly repayments were approximately 9% of Miss Bs monthly income.
In addition to the monthly repayments for this loan, Miss B had been making monthly 
payments of £1,240 to her creditors, approximately 47% of her monthly income.
Ref: DRN87931843The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Miss B borrowed. She was using the loan to repay other debts, which suggests she 
was already struggling with existing credit.
Individually and taken  together,  I think there  are several flags here which should have 
caused ELL to question  whether it should have provided Miss B with further  credit. So, I 
think it was important for ELL to have conducted  checks which gave it a thorough 
understanding of Miss Bs financial position and to scrutinise the information it gathered 
carefully, asking follow-up questions where  necessary, before agreeing  to lend.
ELL has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide  Miss B with the loan. It 
says it carried out a credit search, checked  her November  2017 bank statement and a 
payslip. It says it carried out an affordability assessment based  on this. 
But ELL also says it made a deduction of 35% of Miss Bs monthly income for living 
expenses. Its not clear  to me how it has reached  this figure, or why it felt it necessary  or 
appropriate to apply what appears to be a standard deduction from Miss Bs income for living 
expenses. And it hasnt  explained why this was a more reliable and borrower  focussed  
assessment of Miss Bs living expenses, than scrutinising the information it did collect  about  
Miss B.
This is particularly confusing when it has said it did review Miss Bs bank statement and 
payslip to evidence  her income.  And it seems  to me that it would have been more logical to 
have made  an actual assessment of Miss Bs income and expenses, taking into account the 
information it did have,  rather than making assumptions which werent  necessarily accurate, 
appropriate or borrower focussed. 
If it had done that, I think it would  have realised that Miss Bs finances were in poor shape.  I 
say this because  if it had carried out a simple assessment of her November 2017 bank 
statement, it would have  seen that the amount  going  out of Miss Bs account was well in 
excess of her salary. In my opinion this simple analysis should have made ELL question  
whether further  lending  was appropriate  and affordable for Miss B.
In the copy of the November bank statement supplied to the service and ELL, there was 
evidence of payday loan payments going  out and payday loan funds being credited to the 
account. And without  these payday loans and transfers,  it appears  that Miss B would have 
been unable  to support the level of outgoings  from her account. 
ELL has also said it reviewed Miss Bs October 2017 payslip. This records overtime  pay and 
backdated pay. ELL said it had used an average of the information  on Miss Bs payslip and 
her bank statement  to calculate an average  of her income. But I think the overtime pay and 
back pay recorded on the payslip; should  have alerted to ELL that the information it had 
about her pay, wasnt necessarily representative  of her normal monthly  income. 
I believe this is relevant because ELL has said that based on its affordability assessment, it 
thought Miss Bs loan was affordable for her. And based on its calculations which assumed 
her monthly income to be approximately £2,600; she had surplus income  of just over £60 
after making the loan repayment. This also assumed that 35% of her income was allocated  
to living  expenses. So, Im satisfied that by ELLs own calculations,  this gave Miss B very 
little leeway in terms of her surplus income at the end of each month. And this also indicates  
to me that her finances were very tight. 
Ref: DRN87931844In addition, ELL hasnt  explained why it believes the information it reviewed  supports  that 
assessment and decision. Taking into account  what Ive summarised  above,  I cant see 
objectively how on even a superficial  analysis of the copy  of the bank statement it had from 
Miss B, that ELL could  have concluded the loan was affordable for her. 
And if it had interrogated  the information  it had a little deeper,  it should  have realised  that the 
picture was even bleaker. I say this because  as Ive outlined above,  the bank statement 
records significant pay day loan activity, with multiple payments going  out and credits 
coming in. And from what I can see from the bank statement, Miss B had six pay day loans.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think ELLs checks were reasonable or 
proportionate in this case. And Im not persuaded that the loan was affordable  for her. I say 
this because as Ive set out above, I think the information ELL obtained from Miss B posed 
real questions about her ability to sustainably repay  the loan.  
At the very least,  the information ELL had should  have  put it on notice to make further 
enquiries about Miss Bs finances. In the first instance, the purpose of the loan (to 
consolidate pay day loans) should in my opinion have flagged  to ELL that Miss B might  well 
already be in an unsustainable debt position and therefore may well have some  difficulties in 
repaying the loan.  
Secondly, ELL only seems to have assessed  Miss Bs financial position  based on her 
November 2017  bank statement, her October 2017  payslip and her credit file.
Notwithstanding the difficulties I think that bank statement reveals, there  is a general risk that 
a single month may not have been representative of Miss Bs routine financial position.
And given  the history  of pay day borrowing, the record of her outgoings significantly 
exceeding her monthly salary and the other significant debt she had, I think  all this 
information should either have prompted  ELL to decline  the application or  at least   have 
alerted it to make further enquiries  of Miss Bs finances and assess  the affordability  of the 
loan for her. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
I think ELL should have  ensured that the scope and extent of its checks  were adapted to the 
circumstances of Miss Bs application. This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual with a history of taking out pay day loans. This was evidenced on the credit file 
that ELL has provided.  
The repayments for this loan (even after consolidating  two of her payday loans)  together  with 
the other repayments  she was making,  would  in all likelihood, form a significant proportion of 
Miss Bs monthly outgoings for 36 months. Given the information contained on the bank 
statement that ELL was in possession of, further  checks would in my opinion,  need to 
establish that her position was generally much better than that.
In response to the investigators view, Miss B provided additional  information  about her 
finances to enable him to better  understand her circumstances and the potential  impact on 
her of taking  out this loan. 
She has provided us with copies of her bank  statements for October, November and 
December 2017.  These  statements show that in October 2017, Miss B had payments 
crediting her account  from pay day lenders,  totalling £1,400. And her November 2017 bank 
Ref: DRN87931845statement records her monthly  salary as £2,443.92. And given what  Ive said above  about 
Miss Bs income and the affordability assessment carried out by ELL, this information  if it 
had been obtained, should have had an impact on the decision to lend to her. 
So, if ELL had carried  out these additional checks on Miss Bs finances in this way, it would 
have confirmed that the picture emerging from Miss Bs November statement, appears to 
have been part of a broader  pattern.  She appears  to have been in a cycle of taking out pay 
day loans, which should have alerted ELL to question  whether the loan was affordable  for 
her.
ELLs own calculations  suggest that Miss B would have had only £60 surplus  income per 
month. But ELL allowed its calculations to be skewed by including  backdated pay and 
overtime pay accrued in one month. I think it wouldve been proportionate for ELL to have 
established what Miss Bs actual  regular income was  especially given its own calculations 
showed Miss Bs monthly finances would have had very little headroom  for the duration of 
this loan. Had it done so, its calculations wouldve shown Miss B had a net deficit  each 
month after this loan and should  therefore have declined to lend.
I believe a range of other indicators that ELL saw (or ought  to have seen) that Ive outlined 
above, should have made it realise that it was unlikely Miss B would have been able to repay 
her loan, and that it wasnt  appropriate to lend to her. 
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay  the principal  amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to her. So, I think Miss B has lost out and ELL should put 
things right for her. ELL should: 
a)Remove all interest, fees and charges  applied  to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss B should  then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments  Miss B has made  total more  than the amount she was originally lent, 
then any surplus should  be treated as overpayments  and refunded  to her with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid 
by Miss B to the date the complaint is settled. 
b)If there  is still an outstanding balance then ELL should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss B, bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions, and taking into account her current  ability to 
repay the loan.
c)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Bs credit  file as a result of this 
loan. *HM Revenue  & Customs requires  ELL to deduct tax from this interest.  ELL 
should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Miss Bs complaint and to direct  
Everyday Lending  Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Ref: DRN87931846Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before  27 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793184