K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) unfairly  refused to pay 
his claim for medical treatment under his travel policy  when he was away  on holiday.
background
Mr A and his mother Mrs A were  both covered under  this policy when they went  on holiday in 
Europe with other family members.
On the second  day, Mr A became ill and sought medical attention  for severe  sunburn  and 
was admitted to hospital. He made a claim to ERV who decided to refuse  to pay, claiming 
Mr A should  have taken  more care of himself.  
Mr A complained but ERV wouldnt change its mind, so he brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator thought  ERV should pay his claim. ERV disagreed so Mr As complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
ERV are relying on a general condition in its policy, which  says the following:
You must exercise reasonable care for the supervision and safety of both you and 
your property. You must  take all reasonable steps  to avoid, or minimise a claim. You 
must act as if you are not insured.
It says because sunburn is preventable, it wont pay Mr As claim. 
Mr A fell ill in the morning  of the second  day of his holiday. He told us he had worn 
sunscreen the day before and was wearing  clothes and had spent a lot of the day in the 
room at least up to 3pm,  availing  of the air conditioning, as it was very hot. Theres  no 
evidence within the medical report that he fell asleep in the sun or hadnt worn clothes or 
sunscreen, given  the worst  burns were to the bottom of his legs and he said he was wearing 
long shorts.   
It doesnt appear that anyone from ERV actually talked to Mr A either to ascertain any facts. 
On being contacted by the hospital  to say Mr A was admitted due to sunburn,  ERVs  agent 
simply contacted it and asked if they should  decline before  the agent had even talked to 
Mr A.
The burden of proof  is on ERV to show Mr A didnt take reasonable care of himself given 
people can and do suffer  sunburn and sunstroke whilst wearing sunscreen and indeed  
keeping hydrated.  And often this starts at the beginning of the holiday as happened in Mr As 
case, before  he had a chance to acclimatise to very hot weather.
Ref: DRN82620862I dont think ERV did enough to show Mr A hadnt taken reasonable care.  He was on holiday 
with other  family members and ERV didnt ask to talk to them, or even ascertain what  
happened.
So as it doesnt  seem apparent that ERV investigated the claim at all to show Mr A hadnt 
taken reasonable  care,  I dont think its reasonable, it declined to pay his claim.
my final decision
For these reasons, it my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Europaische Reiseversicherung AG to do the following:
Pay Mr As claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy.
As Mr A had to pay the hospital direct himself, add interest of 8% simple per year 
from the date Mr A paid the hospital  to the date of its refund to him.*
*If Europaische Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8262086