K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says the loan repayments led to him borrowing further with Sunny, and with other lenders, so 
he could meet his ordinary expenditure.  
background
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Sunny provided  to Mr P between April 2015  
and July 2016.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 24/04/2015 £100 6 29/05/2015
2 12/09/2015 £200 6 24/01/2016
3 05/10/2015 £150 6 31/03/2016
4 13/12/2015 £100 6 31/05/2016
5 10/02/2016 £200 6 06/04/2016
6 22/04/2016 £150 6 04/06/2016
7 04/06/2016 £350 6 outstanding
8 17/07/2016 £300 6 outstanding
9 25/07/2016 £300 6 outstanding
I understand loans  7, 9 and 9 have  been sold to a third party.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Sunny shouldnt have lent from 
loan 6 onwards.  Sunny  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that its (credit)  
checks were robust enough  to say that Mr P wasnt struggling to repay  the loans and he was 
using them in the manner intended. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN81572942But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Mr P didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Mr P had with Sunny. So 
they are something  I will take into account  when considering the other loans  he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 6 to 9 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending  
history with Mr P, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which  Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr P was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr P had been  indebted to Sunny for around 12 months. So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not he was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan repayments was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Ps first loan was for £100,  but he quickly took his indebtedness  up to £300  and to 
£450 by loan 3. This did fluctuate at some points but didnt decrease by a significant 
amount, or for a sustained period,  going  forward. I think at loan 6 Sunny ought  to 
have known that Mr P was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Ref: DRN81572943Mr P had been provided with a new loan before he had settled his previous ones. 
This took place  both before and after loan 6.  
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. And the amount 
he had been indebted to Sunny had risen  at first and then remained at around  the 
same amount until the last three loans where  the amount he owed Sunny increased 
significantly. Loan 9 was taken out around 15 months after Mr Ps first. And it was for 
a larger  amount. Mr P had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect; service a debt 
to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ps ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 to 9 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 6 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 9 should be removed from Mr 
Ps credit file.
If Mr P still owes Sunny  any of the principal balance he borrowed on his last three loans 
Sunny should  remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balance.  Sunny  
should then re-work  the accounts as if all payments made by Mr P went  to towards the 
principal. But importantly,  Sunny needs  to make sure that Mr P doesnt repay more  than the 
principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr P hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Sunny can deduct this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr P has already paid enough to repay the principal  
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Sunny no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr P.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN81572944my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8157294