K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about AWP P&C SAs failure to settle  his claim for medical expenses 
under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr T was on holiday in the USA. His car was broken into and his bag, the contents of which 
included his prescribed medication, was stolen. Mr T was in immediate  need  of the 
medication so he attended the accident and emergency department of a hospital  where  a 
doctor gave him this along with a prescription for the replacement  medication he would need 
during the rest of his holiday. 
On returning to the UK, Mr T made a claim under his travel insurance policy for his medical 
expenses, including the cost of the replacement  medication. AWP said it needed more  
information. Mr T repeatedly provided  AWP with the opportunity to access  to his encrypted 
medical records in the USA but AWP failed to take this. Mr T therefore obtained the records 
himself and sent these  to AWP. AWP still didnt agree to settle  his claim. Mr T therefore 
referred his complaint to us.
AWP explained to our adjudicator that Mr Ts hospital  bill wasnt  covered under the policy 
because it wasnt emergency medical treatment following an injury  or illness. It further 
explained that in respect  of his replacement prescriptions it would base its settlement on the 
standard cost of NHS  prescriptions  and because  this was less than the policys excess of 
£70 no payment could be made. It couldnt explain why it had failed to access Mr Ts 
encrypted medical records  and apologised for any inconvenience  caused to him.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. While she 
acknowledged that the hospital bill wasnt covered  under the strict  application of the policy 
terms, she noted that if Mr T hadnt attended the hospital to obtain  replacement medication it 
was likely he would have  been taken ill and needed  treatment.  In the circumstances, she 
thought it fair and reasonable  that AWP accept the claim. In respect  of the replacement  
medication, given  that Mr T had to pay for these while in the USA, she thought  it fair that 
AWP base its settlement on the cost in that country  rather than in the UK (though she 
thought it fair that AWP could make  a deduction for the value of the medication which Mr T 
had already used). She further thought that AWP should pay Mr T £250 compensation for 
the poor service  it had provided after he made his claim.
AWP didnt accept the adjudicators recommendations. Nonetheless, it acknowledged that if 
Mr T hadnt attended hospital  he may have ended  up needing treatment and it further 
accepted it had provided a poor service.  In view of this, as a goodwill gesture it offered to 
reimburse him the cost of the hospital  bill once hed settled it and to review  his claim in 
respect of the cost of the replacement prescriptions.
Mr T didnt  accept AWPs offer.  The matter  has therefore been  passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN89347622The emergency medical expenses section of the policy  states that cover is provided for  
necessary and unforeseen emergency medical expenses if you die, are injured, have an 
accident or are taken  ill during your journey. When Mr T went  to hospital he hadnt been 
taken ill and so, under the strict policy terms, he wasnt  eligible for cover.  However, the 
nature of his medical condition is such that if he didnt  obtain medication reasonably urgently 
he would  inevitably have  been taken ill (at which point he would have  become eligible  for 
cover). The only way he could obtain  medication  was by going  to hospital. The reason Mr T 
was without medication was because of the theft rather than because  of any failing on his 
part. In these circumstances,  I think it fair and reasonable that AWP should accept Mr Ts 
claim for the hospital  expenses.
The emergency medical expenses section specifically excludes the cost of replacement  
medication so Mr T was unable to make a claim under this heading. However, Mr T was able 
to make a claim under the section  of the policy relating  to personal possessions. The policy 
states that cover will be provided  for cost of replacement  of stolen items. Mr T needed his 
medication while he was in the USA and so had to pay the cost which applied in that 
country. While  I accept  that AWP was entitled to take account of the value  of medication 
Mr T had already used,  I dont think it was reasonable for it to say it would pay only the 
replacement cost which would have applied in the UK. I think  AWP should  accept  and settle 
Mr Ts claim based  on the amount which he actually had to pay for the replacement 
medication. 
After Mr T made his claim, AWP requested sight of his USA medical records. Mr T made 
repeated arrangements  for AWP to have access to these encrypted records  but it failed to 
take these opportunities. Mr T therefore  had to obtain the records  himself and send them in 
unencrypted form to AWP.  It still failed  to provide a proper response to explain  how it was 
dealing with his claim even though, by this time, Mr T was being  chased by the hospital for 
settlement of its bill of over $1,700. I think AWPs failings will have caused Mr T distress and 
inconvenience for which it should  pay him compensation of £250.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP 
P&C SA to do the following:
accept and settle Mr Ts claim for the hospital costs in accordance  with the policys 
remaining terms and conditions. AWP should  contact the hospital to pay its bill 
directly and is responsible for any costs, including legal  costs,  associated with late 
payment;
accept and settle Mr Ts claim for the replacement prescription medication  based on 
the cost which Mr T paid in the USA and in accordance with the policys  remaining 
terms and conditions.  AWP  may make a 50% deduction from Mr Ts claim to allow for 
the value of medication which  he had already used. AWP should add interest to its 
settlement at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date Mr T paid for the 
replacement medication to the date of settlement;* and
pay Mr T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him.
Ref: DRN89347623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8934762