K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a store card.
For the avoidance of doubt - although  a different business sold the PPI, FICL has taken 
responsibility for this complaint. So Ill only refer to FICL in this decision.
background
In 2000 Mr P took out a high street store  card during a store visit. At the same  time he also 
bought Account Cover  and element of which  was PPI designed to protect his card 
payments in the event he couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
The policy also provided purchase protection cover. But Mr P hasnt complained about this 
element of cover. So as it doesnt form part of this complaint I wont  consider it here. But for 
the purposes of the complaint and to put Mr P in the most favourable position, I have 
attributed the full cost of the policy to the PPI element. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  for every £100 Mr P owed on the card. And it provided  a 
monthly benefit of 15% of what was owed  until Mr P returned to work or the balance  was 
paid off - whichever came first.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought Mr P chose to take PPI 
out. And there  was nothing to indicate  hed lost out as a result  of having PPI  including  
taking into account  the fact that Mr P was self-employed at the time.
Mr P disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me to decide. In disagreeing Mr Ps 
representative has challenged the point the adjudicator made about the policy  being  suitable 
for Mr P as a self-employed person because it didnt exclude or overly limit claims for self-
employed persons.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account  whats  
relevant here in deciding Mr Ps case. 
There doesnt appear to be a dispute  that PPI was bought during a store visit. FICL says it 
didnt recommend the cover to Mr P and Mr P says the same. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest FICL did, so FICL didnt have to make sure the policy was right or suitable  for Mr P. 
But it did have to give him enough clear  information  about the PPI so he could make a 
properly informed decision about it. Ive kept this in mind in my consideration of the 
complaint.
Ive firstly  considered whether FICL made  it clear to Mr P that he had a choice whether to 
take out PPI and if he agreed to it on that basis.
FICL has provided a copy of Mr Ps store card application from the time and Ive looked at 
this carefully and considered it alongside  what Mr P says happened.
Ref: DRN88368662Looking at the application I can see there was a separate  section for PPI headed  Account 
Cover, which  required  Mr P to sign under the following  statement  if he wanted the policy:  
(only sign this box if you require Account Cover)  Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover  And Mr P signed it.
The application is in my view clear that Mr P should only sign if he wanted  the cover. And I 
dont think he would  have  given his signature to something  a separate  signature from the 
agreement itself - without reading  or knowing something about what he was signing for and 
agreeing to.
So after careful  consideration, I think on balance  that when it was offered to him on the 
application Mr P found it of interest to him and he chose PPI by signing  the relevant section 
on the form. And that he did so without any undue pressure.
But the evidence  available suggests  there were gaps in the information  Mr P was given 
when he made his decision to take out the policy. For example, I dont think  the benefit was 
made clear and the cost wasnt as clear as it should have been  for example that the 
premiums could attract interest or that theyd continue to fall due during a claim. In addition  I 
dont think Mr P was informed clearly that existing medical conditions  werent  covered.
I think Mr P was likely  sent a policy document by FICL  after he took out the cover because 
this is what it was required  to do. But Mr P didnt base  his decision on the information 
contained in this document. 
So overall I dont  think Mr P got all of the information  about the cover which he needed to 
make a properly informed decision about it. I dont  think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
However, in light of Mr Ps particular  circumstances at the time, I dont think hes lost out as 
a result.  I say this because for the following reasons, I dont think Mr P would have been put 
off taking out PPI if FICL had done  more:
Mr P was eligible  for the cover and its benefits   he was working and within the required 
age range.
Mr P chose  the cover, so the concept  must have been  of interest to him; albeit Im 
mindful he chose it based  on incomplete information.
He had no sick pay or savings he could rely on if something  went  wrong. So the policy 
wasnt fundamentally unsuitable  for him and I think he would  have found  it useful  and 
would have helped  him manage  the consequences  if he found himself  unable to work as 
a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
The policy offered  a monthly benefit  of 15% of the outstanding balance until he returned  
to work or the balance on the card was paid off. And this might have been  better  than Mr 
P expected  from the information he got when he chose it. 
Mr P was self-employed  at the time and with some policies this might have been 
problematic  for example  some policies limited or excluded  unemployment cover for the 
self-employed making them unsuitable.  But this was not the case  here.  I will come  back 
to and expand  on this point below.
Mr P was in good health, so he wouldnt have been affected by the existing medical 
condition exclusions
the policy appears to have been affordable. 
Ref: DRN88368663Returning to the point  about Mr P being  self-employed and how this affected the 
appropriateness of the cover  - I can see Mr Ps representative says the policy excluded 
cover if Mr P stopped  trading temporarily.  And says to claim for unemployment the policy  
required Mr P to stop trading and agree to his business never trading again. It says this is 
like an employed person agreeing to never get another job again.
I disagree with Mr Ps representatives interpretation of the policy terms and the analogy  its 
argued.
  
The policy document says for the self-employed  to make an unemployment claim their 
business must: have  stopped trading and/or be in the process  of being wound up; or And 
under the unemployment exclusions section it says claims are excluded  if your business 
temporarily stops trading
Dealing with the first definition  I think  the and/or within the sentence is important here 
because it means Mr P could make  a claim if his business stopped trading. Stopped  
trading isnt defined within the policy terms. But the policy  doesnt  say that his business had 
to stop trading permanently or completely as Mr Ps representative argues. If the policy  
required that I would have expected it to say so. It therefore  seems  to me that Mr P could 
claim if for example he was forced  to stop trading because he couldnt find enough  work  to 
meet his normal day to day living and business  expenses  i.e it was uneconomic for him to 
carry on.
Including an exclusion term within the policy  which says claims are excluded for the self-
employed if their business temporarily  stops  trading isnt unusual or onerous  in my view. 
This is included to stop people from making a claim if they simply want  to stop their business 
for a short period because theyve decided to do so - not something thats been done to 
them.
So in summary Im not persuaded  the policy as its written means  it was overly difficult for Mr 
P in his circumstances  to make an unemployment claim, so I dont think  it was unsuitable or 
inappropriate for him.
Overall I think  Mr P chose to take out PPI because when it was offered to him in the store 
card application  it was of interest to him. And despite the fact that he didnt get clear and 
timely information about the PPI, for the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont think hes lost out 
 I think he would have  still most  likely bought PPI if FICL had done more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Mr P has not lost out as a result  of buying 
PPI alongside  his store card, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8836866