K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that their home  insurance claim for damage to their roof caused by 
storms has been declined  by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim at the end of December 2017  for damage to their extension roof 
which they said had occurred during documented storms  during the last quarter of 2017.
RSA appointed a surveyor to inspect  the damage  and advise  whether it was covered by the 
policy terms. The surveyor reported that there  was no evidence  of storm damage to the roof 
so there  was no cover under the policy. He thought an unknown  defect  was allowing water to 
ingress into the property  and that the recent  weather conditions had highlighted the problem. 
He thought the roof had likely deteriorated over a number of years. He recommended that 
RSA decline the claim.  
Unhappy that their claim had been  declined, Mr and Mrs C complained to RSA. RSA looked 
into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and issued its final response letter in January 2018.  It said 
there hadnt been storm conditions in their area at any point between 1 October  2017  and 
the date Mr and Mrs C made their claim. It said there had been high winds on Christmas day 
but not strong enough to be classified  as a storm. It also said the damage being  claimed  for 
wasnt consistent with storm damage  and it was likely that the high winds they experienced 
highlighted a pre-existing issue with the roof rather than the damage being the result of a 
storm. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with RSA. They said if the damage wasnt caused by a storm then 
what did the surveyor think had caused it? They wanted to know  why the surveyor  didnt 
decline the claim on site and, if it was clear  there  were no recorded storms, why even go 
through the process of assessing the damage? RSA looked  at the complaint again and said 
it was the surveyors  role to assess if the damage was covered by the policy.  It said it wasnt 
the surveyors job to confirm what may have caused  the damage if an insured event hadnt 
occurred. It said weather conditions werent  checked when a claim was registered;  this was 
left to the surveyor to do when  validating the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with RSAs  findings so complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He thought 
thered been no one-off storm event that couldve caused the damage.  He said that RSA 
hadnt unreasonably declined the claim on the basis that the weather conditions had 
highlighted a pre-existing condition  with the roof. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with our investigators findings. They said that their complaint 
about the poor service theyd received had been ignored. They also sent in a web link to a 
list of the identifiable storms from 2014 to 2018, highlighting the ones that hit the UK during 
the last quarter of 2017 which they believed were  responsible for causing  the damage  to 
their roof. They said it was only because  thered  been so many storms that they were unable 
to identify which one had caused the damage. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN81131602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has a long established approach to considering complaints about claims for 
storm damage. It generally  takes  into consideration the following questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed  for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm  conditions the main  cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers them damage caused by storm. We take this to mean a one-off 
identifiable storm event  rather than poor weather over a period of time. Having reviewed the 
weather reports in Mr and Mrs Cs locality for the period 1 October to 27 December  2017  I 
can see that the wind and rainfall  at no time amounted to storm conditions. 
Ive noted the information  Mr and Mrs C sent our investigator which disputes this conclusion.  
When we look to see if there has been a storm we check weather data from the nearest 
available weather station to the damaged property. Weather conditions can be very localised 
and just because  there  are documented storms in other parts  of the country doesnt mean 
the same  conditions prevailed  elsewhere. Of the list of documented storms that Mr and    
Mrs C sent to our investigator, only three occurred during the period  in question. All of them 
reported storm conditions  far from Mr and Mrs C home. 
So I accept  that there  were storms that hit the UK during the last quarter of 2017 but the 
three named documented ones Mr and Mrs C referred  to didnt hit the area they live in. This 
is reinforced by the weather data from their local weather station. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by home  insurance. Only damage  caused by 
those perils (or, events) listed in the policy are covered  (storm, theft, escape of water etc.). 
As there was no identifiable storm around the time the damage  is said to have  occurred the 
answer to the first question is no. This means  I dont think  RSA unreasonably declined  Mr 
and Mrs Cs claim. 
Whilst I neednt go on to consider the answers  to questions 2 and 3 it is worth stating that 
Ive reviewed the photographs of the damage  provided by both Mr and Mrs C and RSA.  I can 
see there is moss growing  underneath  the tiles (not just moss in the gully) and that the tiles 
are sitting  at an angle. Its not unreasonable to think that the presence of moss under the 
tiles indicates  that the tiles have been  in this position  for some time and longer than three 
months in any event. This means  that even if I accepted there  were  storm conditions 
present, I think the answers to questions 2 and 3 would be a no in any event.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that they received  poor customer service. I 
know that the policy they brought  was sold by a reputable high street  retailer (and 
underwritten by RSA). Theyve  stated that the retailer provided poor customer service along  
with RSA and its appointed  surveyors. They think the retailer  should take responsibility for 
the service provided  by agents on its behalf.  They dispute  that the retailer can have such 
positive reviews on its website. 
Ref: DRN81131603This is a complaint  about RSA. I can only look here at its actions and those of its appointed 
surveyor. And, having done  so, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs C received poor 
customer service.  Mr and Mrs C say that a different process should have been  followed. But 
how a claim is processed is up to RSA. Its only where this service can see evidence  of poor 
customer service  that we would intervene and award compensation and Im unable  to 
reasonably agree that happened  here.  The claim was assessed  and a decision given 
promptly. The reasons  why it was declined were  clearly explained. I appreciate  that Mr and 
Mrs C were unhappy with RSAs decision but, I cant reasonably  conclude  there  were  
shortcomings in the customer service  they received from RSA and the surveyor.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8113160