K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about the way Santander UK Plc (Santander)  has compensated her 
for its mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy attached to a loan.
background
Mrs C took out a loan for £8000 in 2002.  At the same time she was sold a single premium 
PPI policy  costing £1,380.80. This premium was added to her loan and therefore had 
interest charged on it. 
In 2003, Mrs C claimed on her PPI policy when she was unable  to work. As a result, the 
insurer paid a total of £1,350.16 to Santander to cover her loan repayments for seven  
months. 
In 2005, Mrs C got into financial difficulties and wasnt able to make her monthly  loan 
repayments. Santander took her to court in an attempt to recover the debt.
In 2017, Santander offered to compensate Mrs C for the mis-sale of the PPI policy  to her. It 
calculated that it owed her £1,302.10. This was after deducting  the £1,350.16 that was paid 
out by the insurer of her PPI policy for her claim. But Santander said that, because  there  was 
still an outstanding  amount on Mrs Cs loan, it would  use this compensation offer to reduce  
this amount.
But Mrs C doesnt think she should  still owe money on her loan following being taken to 
court by Santander  about the debt. So she doesnt think  Santander were  right to deduct the 
compensation she was owed  from the outstanding balance it said she still had on her loan 
account. She also says that she was unaware  of a successful claim having  been made on 
her PPI policy in 2003 and doesnt think Santander  is right about this.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has upheld  Mrs Cs mis-sale complaint. So in this decision I wont be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold. Ill only be looking at whether the way Santander has 
compensated Mrs C for this mis-sale  is fair.
Santander has provided a copy of the full transaction  history  for Mrs Cs loan account.  This 
includes:
The amount  of the initial loan,  including the PPI single  premium.
The interest which it was agreed  would be charged on this loan. 
The monthly loan repayments which Mrs C has made.
The payments  made on her behalf  by the PPI insurer  as a result of her successful claim.
Charges debited to the account as a result of it falling into arrears.
The refund  given on early cancellation of the PPI policy  when the loan went into default.
Ref: DRN84681612I can see that, after all of the above transactions  had been applied  to Mrs Cs loan account, 
there was an outstanding  balance which she still owed of £4,989.54.  And Santander has 
deducted its PPI mis-sale  compensation  offer of £1,302.18 from this balance to leave a final 
amount outstanding on the account  of £3,687.36.
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that there  was a much  larger amount still owing by 
Mrs C on her loan account than the offer which Santander made to compensate her for her 
PPI mis-sale complaint. I now need  to consider  whether it was fair for Santander  to offset  the 
compensation it offered against  this outstanding  debt.
Mrs C defaulted on her loan and so she owed Santander an amount for the money she 
borrowed (including interest and other charges) which hadnt ever been paid back.  
Santander was out of pocket for this money.  It accepted that it owed Mrs C money for the 
PPI compensation  it had offered her. So it owed her a debt too. And it has set-off its debt 
for the PPI compensation against the debt Mrs C still owed on her loan.
There is in law what is called the equitable right of set-off which  allows people (and 
businesses) to set-off  closely  connected debts. This means that one person  (A) can 
deduct from a debt they owe another  person  (B),  money which that person (B) owes  to 
them.
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection  between  
the PPI compensation offered to Mrs C and her outstanding  debt to Santander.  I must  also 
consider whether it would  be fair for Santander  to use set-off  in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that Santander  has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation 
in the way it has.
The PPI sold to Mrs C was directly  connected to her loan account.  Using  the right of set-off  I 
have outlined above, Im satisfied  the PPI compensation  and the outstanding loan debt are 
closely connected. They are both related to the same  account Mrs C had with Santander.  
And I havent seen  any compelling evidence to show that Mrs C had more  pressing needs 
for the compensation than reducing the arrears on this debt. So I think  its fair for Santander 
to use the compensation its offered to reduce her outstanding loan debt.
I now need to look at whether the way Santander calculated its offer of PPI compensation 
was fair.
With a single premium PPI policy, Id expect  a business to refund any payments a consumer 
made towards the PPI part of their loan and the interest charged on that part of the loan. And 
Id expect it to add 8% simple interest to compensate the consumer  for the time theyve  been  
out of pocket because of this. A business  can also take into account any refund a consumer 
has received on the PPI premium and any financial benefit that the consumer has received 
from the policy as a result of successful claims made on it.
Ive looked at the approach Santander has taken in calculating its offer and I think  this has 
been in line with what I would have expected. It has looked at the amount, including  interest, 
which Mrs C borrowed  for the PPI. Its taken into account the refund she received  when the 
PPI policy  was cancelled  and the amounts credited to her account as a result of her 
successful claim  on the PPI policy. Its also calculated what Mrs C paid towards the PPI 
premium (including interest) when making  her monthly repayments, in order to work out how 
much she is owed in 8% simple interest  for being out of pocket on these.
Ref: DRN84681613Santander has also refunded the £50 Mrs C was charged for letters sent to her, with 8% 
simple interest added to this. I dont think it had to do this because the amount she was 
charged doesnt look to me as if it directly  related  to the PPI.
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Santander  has calculated the compensation owed 
to Mrs C fairly and that it was also fair for it to fully off-set  this compensation against the 
higher amount she still owed on her loan.
Ive thought about what Mrs C has said in response to our adjudicators  view about  not still 
owing Santander  money on her loan. But having looked carefully at all the information 
available to me, Im satisfied that Santander has assessed the amount outstanding correctly. 
The fact that Santander may have written off the debt in its books following the court  case  
doesnt mean that Mrs C didnt still owe it this amount. 
Im also satisfied from the loan transaction history  that a successful claim was made on 
Mrs Cs PPI policy which resulted in the insurer  paying out the equivalent  of seven months  
loan repayments  on Mrs Cs behalf.  I dont think Mrs C is right in her recollection that no 
such claim was ever successfully made.  
So Mrs Cs comments  havent changed my mind about this complaint. I still think  that the 
way Santander  compensated Mrs C for the PPI mis-sale was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8468161