K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has rejected a claim against  
their home insurance policy and made  the decision to avoid  the policy.
Mr and Mrs D are being represented by a third party but for ease I will refer only to Mr and 
Mrs D in this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought  a new home  insurance  policy through  an online comparison website in 
August 2018.  In September 2018  there was a fire in their property which  caused significant  
damage. Mr and Mrs D had to move  out of the property immediately. They  made a claim on 
their home insurance policy but HDI rejected the claim and avoided  the policy.
HDI said Mr and Mrs D had made  a misrepresentation  about their previous home insurance 
claims. It said they failed  to tell it about  three previous home insurance claims which had 
taken place in the last five years. HDI stated that if it had known about these claims, it 
wouldnt have provided cover to Mr and Mrs D. So it avoided the policy   cancelling it as if it 
never existed and refunded the insurance premiums that had been paid.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with HDIs decision. They said the insurance claims were for their 
childrens mobile phones.  Mr and Mrs D say they didnt anticipate  that these losses would 
have any relevance  to their home insurance  policy as their children no longer live at the 
property and the claims were minor.  Mr and Mrs D say they dont recall  being asked about 
losses of mobile phones and, as this policy didnt cover gadgets, they didnt think  that 
information would be relevant.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In short he said the questions 
Mr and Mrs D had answered  were  clear. And he thought there  had been  a misrepresentation 
by Mr and Mrs D when they failed to tell HDI they had made three previous home insurance 
claims in the previous  five years. He said that HDI had provided evidence that it wouldnt 
have provided  insurance if it knew about the three previous insurance claims so thought it 
was fair that HDI had decided to avoid the policy and refund the premiums.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
For complaints where misrepresentation is alleged  by the insurer,  we consider the principles 
set out in The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012
(CIDRA). In short,  it is the consumers duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation when answering an insurers clear  and specific questions about  facts 
relevant to the proposed  risk when they buy or renew an insurance policy. If the consumer 
didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented something, and this adversely affected the 
insurers underwriting (a qualifying  misrepresentation), then the way the insurer can 
respond depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless  or deliberate/reckless. If 
Ref: DRN84208212the consumer  did take reasonable care then theres no qualifying  misrepresentation, so the 
insurer cant take any action against  the consumer at all.
Mr and Mrs D purchased  the policy through an online comparison website. While doing so, 
they were asked have you or anyone living in your property made any home insurance 
claims or incurred any losses in the last five years?. The help text explained this should  
include all home insurance claims,  whether insured or not, against  any person living in the 
property. Mr and Mrs D answered no. Mr and Mrs D were also asked how many years 
they had continuously  held contents  insurance  without  any claims. Mr and Mrs D selected 
nine years.
When Mr and Mrs D raised a claim for the fire in their property, HDI discovered  that there 
had been three claims for the theft of mobile  phones on previous  policies   one in 2014 and 
two in 2016. All of these happened  in the five years before Mr and Mrs D took the policy.  Mr 
and Mrs D havent disputed that they made  these  claims under their home  insurance  policy,  
so I think theres been a misrepresentation. So, Ive then gone on to consider whether this 
was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
The wording  of the questions specifically asks about  home insurance claims and losses for 
anyone in the household.  And the help text reiterates that the question is specifically asking 
about any home insurance  claims. So I think the question Mr and Mrs D were  asked  was 
clear.
Ive then considered  whether Mr and Mrs D took reasonable care to answer the question 
they were asked. Mr and Mrs D have explained that the phones  that were  claimed  for 
belonged to their children  who no longer lived at the property. But Mr and Mrs D knowingly 
made claims  on their home insurance  policies for these stolen mobile phones, so I think  they 
ought reasonably  to have known they needed  to include these claims when answering the 
questions. 
Once Mr and Mrs D had purchased the policy, they were sent documentation  showing the 
information they had provided and were asked  to read it carefully and check the information 
provided. It also explained that any incorrect information could  impact  the insurance. I 
havent seen anything to make me think Mr and Mrs D contacted either  the broker  or HDI to 
let them  know this information was incorrect. So overall, I dont think  Mr and Mrs D took 
reasonable care to ensure  the information they provided was correct.
As its clear Mr and Mrs D provided HDI with incorrect information, Ive then considered 
whether this would  have  made a difference to the policy  HDI offered them. HDI has been 
able to provide  evidence  of its underwriting guidance which shows  that it wouldnt have 
quoted for the policy if it had been told about the previous three claims.  So Im satisfied that 
HDI wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs D the policy if they had been given the correct 
information. And it follows that Im also satisfied there has been a qualifying  
misrepresentation under CIDRA  in this case.
HDI has avoided the policy  from its inception date, cancelling it as if it never existed. And I 
understand that it has also refunded  the premiums paid and declined  to consider the claim 
for fire damage.  As Im satisfied there  has been a qualifying misrepresentation and HDI 
never would have provided  insurance if they had been given the correct  information, I think  
their decision  to avoid  the policy is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN84208213my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8420821