K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what The Co-operative Bank  Plc (the Co-operative) has done  to put 
things right following  his complaint  about the sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr M complained about PPI he held alongside an overdraft. The Co-operative investigated 
the complaint  and thought  it should  be upheld. It offered to refund the premiums Mr M had 
paid towards the account. 
But the Co-operative  said it only held statements back to the year 1999  and so it said it 
had made  assumptions  about how much Mr M paid for the PPI before then.  The earliest 
statement was page 143, and the Co-operative assumed Mr M received one page of 
statements each month. This meant it assumed the account opened  in December 1987.
Mr M signed a form to say he accepted the Co-operatives offer in full and final settlement of 
the complaint.  But Mr M now thinks he had the PPI for longer   he says he recently found 
statements from before  1987.  He sent the Co-operative  statements for both accounts, and 
asked Co-operative to look at this again. As the Co-operative  didnt  think hed had the PPI 
for longer, Mr M then referred  the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought  that what  the Co-operative had offered 
was fair.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. So the complaint has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Co-operative initially said we shouldnt look at this complaint as Mr M had already 
accepted an offer in full and final settlement. I can see why it said this. I think the offer 
makes it clear that the Co-operative only had limited records about Mr Ms accounts, and so 
theyd assume the account started  in 1987. So I think that Mr M knew  what  he was being 
offered  and knew what he was accepting when he signed and returned the form.
Our rules say I can dismiss some  cases without looking at the merits, for example  where 
dealing with the complaint  would seriously  impair  the effective operation of the ombudsman 
service. As our role is to resolve problems that consumers and businesses cant  resolve  
themselves, it may not be appropriate  for us to get involved if the consumer has already 
accepted an offer. 
But this is something  I have to decide  on a case-by-case basis.
Here, after Mr M accepted the Co-operatives offer, he found some  more information that he 
says should be taken into account. The Co-operative didnt have that information  at the time 
it worked out his offer.
But I think the Co-operative has offered  fair compensation for mis-selling  PPI. So although  I 
understand with the Co-operative think I should  dismiss  the complaint, I think  it would  be 
better to explain why the offer is fair rather than simply dismiss it.
Ref: DRN81038872Based on the statements Mr M has sent us, it looks as though this account  first opened in 
January 1980.  Mr Ms account was originally branded as a budget account, but was later 
changed to a Freeflow  account. Based on the number of statements  issued,  it looks as 
though Mr Ms account changed to the Freeflow product no earlier than December 1987.
Both Mr M and the Co-operative have sent us a number of statements covering different 
periods when the account was open.
The Co-operative says it thinks the PPI started  when  the account  changed  to a Freeflow 
account. Mr M says that as he had this account since 1980, he thinks  he had PPI for longer. 
So Ive thought about this alongside the other  information Ive seen. 
Mr M has sent us copies of his statements from 1980 until 1984. But these dont show  that 
Mr M was paying for insurance during this period  and I think its likely that the insurance  
would have been listed separately on his statements.
Later statements do show Mr M paying  for a PPI policy  in November 1999, for example, Mr 
M paid £4.90 towards a transaction listed as credit protection  and I see this appeared on 
Mr Ms statements until February  2009.
So based  on what Ive seen, Mr M didnt take out the PPI when he originally opened the 
account. And I havent seen anything to suggest that PPI was in place before the account 
became a Freeflow account in 1987. In the absence of better  information  about when the 
policy started, I think its most likely  the PPI was added to the account  when the 
Co-operative  changed the type of Mr Ms account.
 
Where a business accepts that a complaint about  the sale of PPI should  be upheld, Id 
expect it to put the customer in the position  theyd be in if they hadnt bought the PPI.
In this case, Mr M bought the policy alongside  an overdraft. He paid £4.90  a month towards  
the PPI. He was charged interest on these  amounts in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the account.
The Co-operative has worked out that  from January 1988 until the policy  ended  in 2009  
Mr M paid £1,244.60 towards the PPI premiums,  and a further £2,412.05 in interest charges. 
And it has added  simple interest  to compensate him for times he didnt need to use his 
overdraft. So the Co-operative appears to have done what Id have expected it to do.
I note Mr Ms comments about the limited  information the Co-operative  holds.  I wouldnt  
expect the business to hold these records longer than it needed  them, and so I dont think 
its unreasonable that they dont now have full records of what  happened in the 1980s.  So 
this doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc has paid fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI. So I dont make a further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN81038873Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8103887