K821x#15complaint
Ms Ms complaint concerns several  claims she made on her legal  expenses  insurance policy 
from 2014 onwards.
Shes unhappy about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited handled  those 
claims and doesnt  think  shes been  treated fairly. 
Ms M wants DAS, amongst other  things,  to reimburse her costs and expenses incurred in 
pursuing her claims as if legal expenses  insurance  cover had been in place throughout. 
background 
Ms Ms claims stem from a dispute  with the leasehold owner of the flat below her own. Ms M 
owns the freehold to that flat as well as her own. In 2014 Ms M made a claim on her DAS 
legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring  a claim against the leasehold owner.  She 
said she needed access to the other propertys flat roof to fix a leak,  but the leasehold  owner 
was preventing this. 
DAS considered the matter and concluded it wasnt  covered  by Ms Ms policy because her 
claim was in relation  to the breach of a lease, which was excluded. Ms M pointed out that the 
policy wording read as if the breach  of a lease was covered.  DAS considered  this along with 
the seller of the policy and noted there was an error in the wording of the policy  in so far as a 
comma had been omitted. As a consequence, it agreed to cover this claim as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
In May 2015  Ms M asked  DAS to fund further  claims against the leasehold  owner. She said 
that a claim had been issued against  her in the Land Tribunal, so she wanted cover to 
defend that and to recover service charges she said the leaseholder owed her. She also 
wanted to bring  a nuisance claim relating to a hosepipe being put through a window.  
That same month DAS wrote to Ms M explaining that they wouldnt cover her costs  in 
defending Tribunal proceedings because the service charges she was claiming for as part of 
those proceedings  were  being claimed from October 2010. In addition,  they said her claim in 
those proceedings  for money owed as a result  of sewage eruptions  dated back to December 
2010. DAS said these events began four years  before her policy  was in place so it wouldnt 
be able to assist  her any further  with those proceedings. They explained that if Ms M was 
unhappy with this, shed need  to refer her complaint  to this service within  six months of the 
date of the letter.
In November 2015, Ms M asked for cover to claim for an allegation  of disrepair against the 
leaseholder resulting in an outbreak of e-coli  as well as a claim for breach of the lease as a 
result of the leaseholder keeping a cat in her house.  
The matter  was then put on hold until the Tribunal proceedings were  decided. Following this 
Ms M got in touch with DAS, through their panel  firm to query cover for several  other causes 
of action against the leaseholder.
The panel  firm then said that theyd discussed  the matter with Ms M and she wasnt  sure 
which claims she wanted to pursue in relation to the breaches of the lease  she said the 
leaseholder was responsible for. They recommended the matter be passed to a barrister to 
Ref: DRN81727282consider all the claims and the merits of them, including whether the debt recovery elements 
stemmed from breaches of the lease.  DAS agreed  to provide cover for this.
A barrister considered  Ms Ms claims. He provided  an initial opinion dated August 2016  
setting out that he thought the claims Ms M wished  to bring didnt fall within the policy terms. 
He also provided  a second opinion  dated  November 2016  which  set of the types  of claims 
Ms M might wish to consider bringing in law, but that hed require further information from 
her before he could  advise her definitively about  the merits of these.
In February 2017,  DAS confirmed that given  the nature of the claims the barrister identified  
in his November  2016 advice didnt  fall within the scope of cover as noted  within  his August  
2016 advice, they werent  prepared to provide funding. They also said that the claims didnt 
relate to Ms Ms principal home,  as required by the policy, because  the claims were  in 
respect of another property that wasnt her home. Because of this they declined Ms Ms 
claims. 
In March 2017 DAS clarified why each claim wasnt covered. They  said:
(Claim 1) This matter was raised to assist  you with the breach of lease terms and therefore 
have advised  this is specifically excluded by your policy. Our understanding  is that you 
would like to forfeiture proceeding  based  on the breach of the lease including:-
Non-payment of rent and service charges.
Refusal of access
Failure to provide information.
(Claim 2) This matter was reported  to us as relates  to a dispute you have with your tenant  
who issued a claim against you in the Property  Tribunal and an Application  of determination  
of liability to pay service charges and monies owed.  Unfortunately this claim was later 
declined as the incident fell outside  the insurance  policy (pre-inception).
(Claim 3) We raised the claim against (the leaseholder) for breach of lease by owning a HIV 
positive cat. Your policy excludes a dispute over the terms of a lease of land or buildings  or a 
licence or tenancy  of land or buildings  and therefore  we have advised we are unable to 
assist.
(Claim 4) This matter relates  to a dispute  with your tenant for allegations of disrepair 
resulting in an outbreak of E.coli. Further allegation  included late fees and unpaid  rent. We 
have considered this matter under  Contract Dispute section of your policy and advised that 
we are unable  to assist  due to the lease/licence  exclusion.
Ms M was unhappy with how DAS had looked at her claims so referred her concerns to this 
service. Our investigator considered things.  He concluded that overall DAS had acted 
reasonably when considering the claims but he also thought DAS had taken too long to 
respond to Claim 1 because theyd  relied on the wrong policy  wording so they should  pay Ms 
M £150  in compensation for the distress  this wouldve caused her. He also explained that 
Claim 2 was one we couldnt  consider because the complaint was referred to us more  than 
six months after DAS issued their final response  letter and there were no exceptional  
reasons why Ms M couldnt  refer her complaint to this service sooner.
DAS accepted the investigators view, but Ms M doesnt agree so the matter  has been 
passed to me to decide. Shes made  some  very detailed submissions, which  I wont  be 
addressing individually in this decision. I can however assure  her that Ive looked at 
everything shes said and taken this into account when reaching my decision, which Ive set 
out below. 
Ref: DRN81727283For the avoidance of doubt, I wont be commenting  on Claim 2 in this decision as that is the 
subject of a separate decision Ive issued today. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that overall, DAS acted reasonably, but they should compensate Ms M for the 
delay they caused in dealing with Claim 1. 
The starting point  is the policy terms. In relation  to contract disputes they cover
A dispute arising from an agreement, or an alleged  agreement  which  You have entered into 
in a personal capacity  for
a)buying or hiring goods or services
b)selling  goods
The terms also require the policyholder  to have entered into the agreement  or alleged 
agreement during the period of insurance and the amount in dispute to be more  than £250.  
This section  excludes  cover for the sale, purchase, terms  of a lease, license, or tenancy or 
land or building. 
The property protection section of the policy covers  a dispute relating to the policyholders  
principal home or personal possessions that they own or are responsible for, following an 
event which  causes damage to such property, a legal  nuisance (meaning any unlawful 
interference with your use or enjoyment of your land,  or some right over, or in connection  
with it) or a trespass. This section of the policy excludes a contract  the policyholder has 
entered into. 
Claim 1
This was the first claim Ms M brought to DAS. DAS initially  declined in but later agreed to 
fund a panel firms  costs in considering things, due to an error in the way in which the policy 
wording Ms M, received appeared. When Ms M initially brought  the claim,  it was because 
she wanted access to the other propertys flat roof to fix a leak, but the leasehold  owner was 
preventing her from doing this. She later said she wanted to bring a claim as a result of a 
hosepipe being put through  a window. Matters were  put on hold for a time whilst the Land 
Tribunal proceedings were  concluded. Following this Ms M asked the panel  firm if theyd 
explore several  claims for her against  the leaseholder.  The panel firm said theyd provided 
advice in respect of those  claims but wanted clarity  from DAS as to what  would be covered. 
Both the panel  firm and DAS agreed that given the number of claims Ms M wanted to 
explore, it would be best for a barrister  to be instructed to consider  things.
The barristers advice  to DAS was that the claims didnt fall within  cover because  Ms M was 
essentially claiming for a breach of the lease between her and the leaseholder. I agree with 
that interpretation. The contract section of the policy  only covers claims for buying  or hiring  
goods or services  or selling goods. It also excludes anything to do with the terms of a lease. 
And the property section  of the policy excludes a contract the policyholder has entered  into. 
In this case the issues Ms M was complaining of, arose out of a contract  with the 
leaseholder- namely the lease- and Ms M was saying that contract had been breached. And 
that section of the policy excludes a contract  the policyholder has entered  into. 
Ref: DRN81727284I know that Ms M is unhappy with the delays in DAS dealing with this claim. And I agree  that 
there was a delay  of about four months before  the panel firm were instructed to consider 
things. Our investigator suggested DAS pay Ms M £150 to compensate her for the stress 
this delay wouldve  caused her. I agree thats adequate compensation in this case, and I 
note DAS have  agreed  to pay this. Ms M doesnt  agree. She feels that DAS are responsible 
for further  delays beyond  this point. In particular,  shes referenced  a delay in the panel firm 
progressing her claim and writing to her. But I dont think this means DAS need  to do 
anything more. I say so because DAS arent responsible for the panel firms  conduct;  theyre  
a separate firm of professionals  with their own codes  of conduct and their own regulator. I 
appreciate the panel firm might have been  waiting for a decision on cover during this time 
but that doesnt mean DAS are responsible  for a gap in communications with Ms M. If Ms M 
remains unhappy with the panel  firm, then she can complain to them directly or through the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
Ms M has talked about the ambiguity in the policy wording  she was initially  provided with and 
that the policy she had wouldve given her cover for the disputes shes  complaining  of. I 
appreciate what she says about  this, but I dont  agree. The fact that DAS interpreted  things 
this way was of benefit to Ms M in that she got some limited  help from the panel  firm- albeit 
after an initial delay. But I dont think the wording of the policy she was provided with, did in 
fact give her the benefit of cover for the same  reasons Ive mentioned  above- namely that 
the contract  section of the policy only covers disputes arising from an agreements  the policy 
holder has entered into for buying or hiring goods or services or selling goods. That doesnt 
apply to Ms Ms complaint and the property section of the policy excludes contracts the 
policyholder has entered  into. So, the inclusion or exclusion of a comma in relation to the 
purchase, terms of a lease  vs the purchase  terms of a lease in the contract section of the 
policy is of little consequence.  
Claims 3 and 4
Like Claim 1, both of these claims relate to breaches of the lease by the leaseholder. For the 
same reasons set out above, they arent covered  under  either the contract  or property 
sections of the policy, so I dont think  it was unreasonable for DAS to turn down  these 
claims. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part and direct DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited  to pay her £150 in compensation for the delays it 
caused in appointing a panel firm.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8172728