K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the advice he received from his independent  financial adviser. 
Sesame Limited is responsible for this complaint, so it is Sesame that Ill be referring to in 
my decision  even though Mr C received advice from a firm with a different name.  
Mr Cs complaint is that he was misled  with regards to taking out a personal  pension in 2001.  
He says he wasnt aware that he was taking out a personal pension.  He says he thought he 
was taking out a form of repayment plan that would guarantee  that his interest  only 
mortgage would be paid off at maturity.   
background
On 29 July 2001 Mr C and his partner, Ms N, met with their financial adviser. Their three 
priorities were recorded  as protecting their income, repaying their mortgage and planning for 
their retirement. At the same time, they were in the process of applying for a mortgage. 
The adviser recommended Mr C and Ms N should  each take out level term assurance  and 
critical illness cover. He also said Mr C should  take out a permanent  health insurance policy.  
And he said Mr C should  take out a personal  pension and pay in contributions  of £78 per 
month (£100 per month after tax relief). Mr C was already paying into another  personal  
pension with a different  provider at this point.
Due to a mistake on the advisers part, the letter confirming his recommendations wasnt  
sent until the following year. However,  this didnt prevent Mr Cs new pension being set up. 
The application was completed on the same day as the advice meeting  29 July 2001   
with the first premium paid on 3 September 2001.  
Mr Cs and Ms Ns application for an interest-only mortgage was signed on 30 July 2001  and 
was approved by their mortgage provider on 3 August 2001. 
Mr Cs retirement  date was set for 2027  and the mortgage was due to run until 2026.
Mr C says he was advised to take out the personal pension so that he had funds to pay off 
the mortgage when it matured. He says he was led to believe the pension was a 
guaranteed repayment plan. After consulting with a different financial adviser  sometime  in 
2017, he realised  that a guaranteed repayment  vehicle wasnt  in place, and that the tax-free 
lump sum from his pension was never  likely to have been enough to pay off the mortgage. 
As it happens, the mortgage was paid off early after Mr C received an inheritance.  But he 
feels that the advice he received in 2001 wasnt suitable because he thought  the mortgage 
liability was being  taken care of through  other  means. He says he, and Ms N, could have 
found themselves  in a difficult position with regards to paying  off their mortgage  had it not 
been for the inheritance. 
Mr C complained to Sesame. It rejected his complaint because it said the adviser  hadnt  
given advice on the mortgage  and hadnt  told Mr C that his pension would pay off the 
mortgage. Mr C referred  the matter  to us. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think the advice 
process demonstrated clearly enough  why Mr C was being recommended a new personal 
pension given he already had one in place. He thought this, and the fact that the advisers  
Ref: DRN85453372recommendation letter wasnt sent until significantly after the advice had been  given, 
supported Mr Cs argument that it was sold as a mortgage repayment plan rather  than as a 
standalone personal pension. 
Sesame disagreed, so the matter was referred to me. I set out my initial conclusions in a 
provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In short,  I found  that the pension wasnt recommended as some form of mortgage 
repayment plan.  And I was satisfied that the adviser  wasnt involved in the mortgage 
application so the suitability, or otherwise, of taking an interest only mortgage wasnt  his 
responsibility. I also addressed whether the adviser should have done more  to discuss  the 
risks of taking an interest only mortgage without having a robust  repayment  plan in place. 
But I concluded Mr C wouldnt have taken different action with regards to his pension and 
mortgage, even  if the adviser had done  more to discuss the potential risks of what  Mr C, and 
Ms N, were  doing. So my provisional decision was to not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I invited both parties to provide further  comments.  Sesame didnt have anything further to 
add. Mr C, through his representative, made  a number of comments, which I address below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr C has said the adviser  must  have  been  aware  the 
mortgage was interest  only because he also recommended level term assurance  which, 
typically, is sold alongside interest  only mortgages.  I take from this that Mr C is arguing that 
because the adviser  knew  the mortgage  was interest  only, he must  also have known Mr C 
was taking out the pension as a repayment vehicle. By extension, this must mean the 
adviser either recommended the pension  be used in this way or he recommended  the 
pension as a long-term  savings  vehicle  knowing full well that Mr C nevertheless  intended to 
use it to pay off his mortgage.  Either way, Mr C could have ended up struggling to pay off his 
mortgage which the adviser could, and should,  have  prevented.
I dont think theres any doubt that the adviser did, at some point, know  the mortgage  was 
interest only. I agree with Mr C that it doesnt  make  sense to have recommended level term 
assurance if the mortgage was on a capital repayment basis.  As I said in my provisional 
decision, there is a question  as to when the adviser knew  the mortgage was interest  only.  
The fact-find says a repayment mortgage  was the preferred option and only mentions life 
and critical illness cover rather than specifically referring to level term assurance.  And the 
mortgage application wasnt completed until after the advice meeting. So its possible the 
initial thoughts of the adviser were made with a repayment mortgage in mind. But this 
doesnt alter the fact that the adviser did, ultimately, recommend level term assurance,  so its 
likely he would have known the mortgage  was interest only when he did so.
  
However, this doesnt change  my decision. As outlined in my provisional decision, theres 
nothing to show the personal  pension  was presented as some form of repayment vehicle for 
the mortgage (guaranteed  or otherwise).  And, given the documentation from the time of the 
sale, Im satisfied Mr C would have known, or should reasonably have  known, that he was 
signing up for a personal pension.  My view was  and remains  that the pension was 
recommended because retirement  planning  was one of Mr Cs priorities and because  he 
didnt have access to an occupational scheme as a self-employed worker.  Im also mindful of 
Ref: DRN85453373the fact that Mr C continued to pay into his pension long after he had paid off his mortgage. 
This suggests that the pension was being used as just that  a pension  rather  than as a 
repayment vehicle.    
That said,  if the adviser knew there was a possibility that the pension was going to be used 
as a repayment vehicle  even if he didnt ostensibly advise along these lines  then theres  
an argument that he should  discussed  the potential  downsides of using a pension in this way 
(most notably the potential for the tax-free lump sum to be insufficient  to pay off the 
mortgage). Theres no record of the adviser  doing  this. Its possible Mr C and Ms N might  
have made  different choices if they had been  better informed.
I covered this in my provisional decision. I found  that even if the adviser  had discussed  the 
risks of using a pension  as a repayment vehicle, I didnt  think  Mr C and Ms N would have 
taken alternative action. I think this still holds true. Im satisfied they wouldnt have gone back 
to a capital and interest mortgage given theyd already  expressed  a preference for this but 
had subsequently decided against  it when they applied for their mortgage  with the bank. And 
Im still of the view that Mr C wouldnt have increased his pension contributions to ensure the 
mortgage was paid off because it doesnt  look like he had the spare funds to do this.
In my provisional decision I also looked at whether the adviser was involved in the mortgage 
application. This was important because Mr C has complained  that he didnt have  a robust  
plan in place for paying off his mortgage  despite this being  recorded in the fact find as being 
a priority. If the pension wasnt  sold as a pure repayment vehicle (and I dont think it was) 
then this still leaves  the issue of the mortgage and why it was taken out on an interest only 
basis. 
I concluded that the adviser wasnt responsible for the mortgage. Mr C hasnt questioned 
this. But he says the adviser was CeMAP qualified (that is, qualified to give mortgage 
advice). So he has questioned why he didnt  advise Mr C and Ms N to take out a capital 
repayment mortgage (and decreasing  term assurance) given he was in a position to give this 
advice and he knew what priorities Mr C and Ms N had. My view is that I dont see why the 
adviser should have advised on the mortgage  just because he could have done so. The 
pertinent point  here is the mortgage was dealt with through the bank so the suitability, or 
otherwise, of the mortgage wasnt the advisers  responsibility and not something  I need  to 
make a finding on here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is to not uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85453374COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained about  the advice he received  from his independent  financial adviser. Sesame 
Limited is responsible for this complaint,  so it is Sesame that Ill be referring to in my decision even 
though Mr C received advice from a firm with a different name. 
Mr Cs complaint is that he was wrongly advised  with regards to taking out a personal pension  in 
2001. He says he wasnt aware that he was taking out a personal pension. He says he thought  he 
was taking  out a form of repayment plan that would guarantee that his interest  only mortgage would 
be paid off at maturity.   
background
On 29 July 2001  Mr C and his partner,  Ms N, met with their financial adviser.  Their  three priorities 
were recorded  as being protecting their income, repaying their mortgage and planning for their 
retirement. At the same time, they were in the process  of applying for a mortgage. 
The adviser  recommended Mr C and Ms N should each take out level term assurance and critical 
illness cover  to protect one another in the event of either one of them dying  or becoming critically  ill. 
The adviser  also said Mr C should take out a permanent health insurance policy. And he said Mr C 
should take out a personal pension and pay in contributions of £78 per month (£100 per month after 
tax relief). Mr C was already paying into another personal  pension with a different provider at this 
point.
Due to a mistake on the advisers part, the letter confirming his recommendations wasnt sent until the 
following year. However, this didnt  prevent Mr Cs new pension being set up. The application was 
completed on the same  day as the advice  meeting  29 July 2001  with the first premium paid on 3 
September 2001. 
Mr Cs and Ms Ns application for an interest-only mortgage was signed on 30 July 2001 and was 
approved by their mortgage  provider on 3 August  2001. 
Mr Cs retirement  date was set for 2027  and the mortgage was due to run until 2026.
Mr C says he was advised  to take out the personal pension so that he had funds  to pay off the 
mortgage when it matured.  He says he was led to believe  the pension  was a guaranteed repayment 
plan. After consulting with a different financial adviser  sometime in 2017,  he realised  that a 
guaranteed repayment vehicle wasnt in place, and that the tax-free lump  sum from his personal 
pension was never  likely to have been enough to pay off the mortgage.  
As it happens, the mortgage  was paid off early after Mr C received an inheritance. But he feels  that 
the advice he received in 2001 wasnt suitable because he thought  the mortgage liability  was being 
taken care of through other  means.  He says he, and his partner, could have  found themselves in a 
difficult position with regards to paying off their mortgage had it not been for the inheritance. 
Mr C complained to Sesame. It rejected his complaint because it said the adviser  hadnt given advice 
on the mortgage and hadnt told Mr C that his pension would pay off the mortgage. 
Mr C referred the matter to us. An adjudicator thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.  He said 
there was conflicting evidence about what happened in 2001.  But he didnt think the advice process  
demonstrated clearly enough why Mr C was being recommended a new personal pension given he 
already had one in place. He thought this, and the fact that the advisers recommendation letter 
wasnt sent until significantly after the advice had been given, supported Mr Cs argument that it was 
sold as a mortgage  repayment plan rather than as a standalone personal  pension. 
Ref: DRN85453375Sesame maintains its position, so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold the 
complaint.
Having reviewed  the file, Ive seen no documentary evidence to show the personal pension was some 
form of guaranteed mortgage repayment plan, or that it was even intended to be used to help with 
paying off a mortgage. The fact-find, the suitability letter and documents  from the pension provider all 
make reference to the pension and its key features  tax relief, projected returns  and so on. But 
theres nothing that explicitly links the pension  to the mortgage  and certainly  nothing  that suggests 
any form of guarantee is in place. 
Of course, the fact that the pension could  help in paying off the mortgage may well have been 
discussed. But this isnt controversial. A personal  pension set up in the expectation of ongoing  
contributions over many  years would be a useful source of funds  if there was a shortfall  in any 
existing plans  Mr C had for paying off a mortgage because pensions  produce a 25% tax-free cash  
sum. But this falls a long way short of saying the pension somehow guaranteed the mortgage  would 
be paid off at maturity,  or even that it was intended by the adviser  as a repayment vehicle for that 
mortgage. Ive seen  no persuasive  evidence to say the adviser overstepped the mark  in this way. It 
seems to me the personal pension was recommended  because retirement planning  was one of 
Mr Cs priorities and because he was self-employed and therefore  didnt have access to an 
occupational scheme. Recommending a personal pension in these circumstances doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me. 
The corollary  of Mr Cs argument  is that he wasnt aware he was signing up for a personal pension. In 
Mr Cs words:
At no time during our meetings did [the adviser] ever state he was recommending a personal 
pension. 
However, its clear  from the fact-find (that Mr C and Ms N both signed) that setting up a pension for 
Mr C was discussed.  He also already had a personal pension, which was also discussed, which 
makes it more likely in my view that he did know at least something about  personal pensions.  And I 
dont think the documents from that time could  have been much clearer  in showing a personal 
pension was being set up. For instance, the pension application form  which Mr C signed  was 
headed Personal Pension Application. And the pensions key features document  is headed 
Personal Pensions and includes some questions and answers, one of which  is: what  is a personal 
pension?.
Im also mindful  of the fact that Mr C continued to pay into his pension long after he had paid off his 
mortgage. This suggests that the pension was being  used  as just that  a pension  rather than as a 
repayment vehicle.    
I dont dismiss  Mr Cs point entirely. I recognise that he says he wasnt financially  sophisticated and 
didnt necessarily read, or fully understand, some of the documents mentioned  above. And I note that 
the recommendations letter  was sent by his adviser  a long time after the advice was given, so the 
advice process didnt  run as well as it should have done. Even so, Im satisfied the evidence  points to 
the fact that Mr C would have known, or should  reasonably  have known, that he was signing up for a 
personal pension.
Mr C says the adviser was involved in the mortgage application. The inference here is that somehow  
Mr C, and his partner, should have been put in a position  whereby  their mortgage would have been 
paid off at maturity given they had made it clear to the adviser that this was a priority. Either they 
should have had some sort of guaranteed  repayment  plan put in place or their mortgage should have 
Ref: DRN85453376been on a capital and interest basis. Either way, the argument goes,  responsibility for the lack of a 
robust plan to pay off the mortgage lies with the adviser. 
Ive dealt with the issue of the guaranteed repayment plan above.  With regards to the mortgage,  Im 
also satisfied this wasnt the responsibility of the adviser. I say this because:
The mortgage application  form doesnt  refer to the adviser,  or say any intermediary has been 
involved. By contrast, the application form for the pension does say the adviser  has been 
involved and was being paid commission for his work.
The bank  that provided the mortgage has said the application  came through  one of its 
branches. This is confirmed by the mortgage offer letter, which was addressed to the branch 
manager of the bank in question and said: We refer to previous correspondence  and would 
advise that we have today  made an Offer of Mortgage Loan available to your client(s).
The terms of business  signed by Mr C and Ms N on the day they were  given advice  has no 
mention of mortgages,  just long-term savings and protection.
The fact-find and recommendations  letter make no reference to the adviser having advised on 
the mortgage.
Neither party has provided  any other documentary  evidence that shows the advisers  
involvement in the mortgage.
In short, Im satisfied  that the mortgage was arranged through the bank and that the adviser  limited 
himself to advising  on protection  and pension products. 
There is an argument the adviser must have known Mr C had intended to use the pension  as a 
repayment vehicle  even  if he didnt  ostensibly advise Mr C along  these lines  given  the lack of 
other plans  to pay off the mortgage. Given this, it could be argued the adviser  should have gone  
beyond the usual risk warnings about pensions  and done more to discuss the pros and cons  of using 
a pension in this way. Mr C and Ms N might have made different choices  as a result.
However, its not clear that the adviser  did know the mortgage was going to be on an interest only 
basis when he gave his advice. After all, the fact-find recorded  a preference  for a capital  and interest 
mortgage, the mortgage  application wasnt completed until after the fact-find   with no apparent 
involvement from the adviser  and the mortgage wasnt approved until several days after that. So 
theres a strong  possibility, given the evidence, that the interest only mortgage  was a last-minute 
change that the adviser didnt know about  at the time. 
Even if I assume the adviser did know  the mortgage was interest only,  I dont  think  Mr C would  have 
taken alternative action  if he had been given warnings about using his pension as a repayment 
vehicle. I say this because it seems unlikely  to me that Mr C and Ms N would have  reverted back to a 
capital and interest mortgage given  theyd already  expressed a preference for this but had decided 
against it. Unfortunately the reasons for them making  this decision werent recorded by their mortgage 
lender, but could have been because they were attracted to lower monthly  payments, or they 
expected to remortgage  after quickly building  up equity following planned  renovations. Whatever the 
reasons, they were sufficiently good for them  to have changed their mind  so it seems unlikely to me 
that they would have changed their mind back again  if theyd been told of the potential risks of using a 
pension as a repayment vehicle.  And I dont think Mr C would  have increased  his pension 
contributions to ensure  the mortgage was paid off either because  it doesnt look like he and Ms N had 
the spare funds to do this. 
That doesnt  absolve the adviser  completely.  The suitability letter  wasnt sent until 2002. By this point 
the adviser would (or should) have known about  the interest only mortgage. So this would have  been 
an opportune  time to add some context to the advice  by explaining a pension  may not be a suitable  
Ref: DRN85453377vehicle for paying off a mortgage. The adviser didnt do this. But, as I said above, Im not persuaded 
any warnings  would have prompted Mr C to have taken  alternative action.
It follows that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN8545337