K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about account  information reported to credit reference agencies  by 
TSB Bank plc (trading  as Whistletree). Theyre also unhappy with how TSB has treated them 
whilst theyve had financial difficulties. The complaint relates  to an unsecured loan thats  
connected to a mortgage held on a property Mr and Mrs S owned, but didnt live in.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage and linked unsecured loan with TSB.  The property the 
mortgage was secured  upon wasnt their residential property. All figures in this decision are 
rounded for ease  of reading.
Mr and Mrs S have  been in financial difficulties for many years  and they were  in a debt 
management plan (DMP)  with a company Ill refer to as G between February 2011 and 
December 2011.  In January 2012 they came out of the DMP and entered  into an individual 
voluntary agreement (IVA) instead.  That ran until June 2013 when they decided to close that 
and re-enter a DMP, again with G. In November 2016 they came out of the 2nd DMP and 
instead entered into direct agreements with their creditors.
TSB agreed  to waive the interest  due on the unsecured  loan whilst  Mr and Mrs S met the 
agreed arrangements to pay (ATP). Unfortunately on occasions G didnt provide the 
information TSB needed to agree or renew  an ATP which led to interest  being  chargeable 
again for those  periods. 
It came to light that TSB had incorrectly reported that Mr and Mrs S had missed some 
payments on the loan.  In February  2018,  in response to that complaint, TSB amended 
Mr and Mrs Ss credit  reference files and offered them £50 compensation for the trouble 
theyd been put to.
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs S offered £2,400 in full and final settlement of the unsecured 
loan, saying they couldnt afford to repay the total amount owing. TSB turned that down, so 
in June 2018 Mr and Mrs S paid £15,500  to repay the full amount they owed. I understand 
the property was later sold in October 2018 for £280,000 which  meant they could repay the 
£155,000 mortgage debt with TSB.
Mr and Mrs S raised a further complaint which  TSB responded to in June 2018. That 
complaint was about their credit file information, that TSB wouldnt accept a lower  settlement 
figure, and the charging of interest.  TSB didnt  uphold the complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at everything  and was satisfied that what  TSB had done already to 
put things right was fair and said it didnt need to do anything else. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
Ref: DRN83559402its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered. I can also only deal with the complaint that was made to - and investigated by - 
the business. I cant look at any new points that have subsequently been raised.
I can see Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly  about this, and thats not surprising. But Im afraid 
I have to tell Mr and Mrs S that Im satisfied TSB doesnt need to do anything more  or pay 
them any more compensation than its already offered.
TSB admitted it made a mistake on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files when it wrongly reported 
payments had been missed so I dont need to make a finding on that. What I need to decide 
is whether the offer made by TSB is fair, or whether further compensation is warranted.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied the existing offer is fair. Mr and Mrs S notified 
TSB of the problem  and it put things  right straight  away. TSB didnt know  the wrong  
information had been reported  until it was told and, as I said, it rectified things  immediately. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Were not the regulator;  weve no power  to fine or punish businesses, and our 
awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change  what  happened. 
TSB has apologised, amended Mr and Mrs Ss credit files and offered £50 compensation 
and having considered everything Im satisfied  thats  a fair outcome. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said TSB didnt tell them the implications of the effect on their credit files 
of coming out of the IVA and the two DMPs. Whilst I understand what Mr and Mrs S are 
saying, it wasnt the responsibility of TSB to give them  that advice. All TSB can and must do 
is report correct information to the credit reference agencies. The fact the DMP, IVA and 
informal ATP all show  differently isnt something TSB had any influence over. 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service provided by G which led to them  paying  interest  
on this loan as it didnt put the ATP in force. They say theyre  being penalised for Gs error.  I 
sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs S found themselves in, but I can only uphold  a 
complaint (and make  an order and/or award)  if the business complained  about  did 
something wrong. The complaint Im dealing with is against TSB (not G) and TSB did 
nothing wrong  in charging interest  whilst there  was no ATP in force.  Mr and Mrs S have  
admitted the fault lay with their appointed  agent, G, so I cant  order TSB to do anything  here 
as it didnt do anything  wrong.
In some cases a lender  will agree to accepted a lower amount in full and final settlement  of a 
debt as it may feel its the best way to get back some of the money its owed,  but its down to 
the lenders commercial discretion. Here, TSB considered Mr and Mrs Ss request  but turned 
it down. It felt the property  (which  Mr and Mrs S werent living in, so selling it wouldnt make  
them homeless) was worth enough that both the mortgage and this linked unsecured  loan 
could be repaid in full. So it didnt  feel it appropriate to agree to accept a lesser sum.  Thats  
reasonable and was a decision TSB was entitled  to make.  In any event Mr and Mrs S were  
able to repay the loan in full three months  later without needing to sell the house first to do 
so.
Ref: DRN83559403Mr and Mrs S have  talked about  the impact their credit files will have on them  obtaining a 
mortgage. But thats not the fault of TSB.  A credit file has to be an accurate reflection of the 
account in question and Ive seen  nothing to show thats not the case  here now.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider TSB Bank  plc made  a fair and 
reasonable offer of £50 in its response  to the complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs S to 
decide if, on reflection,  they now want to accept this (if they havent already done so). 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject 
my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8355940