K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy at the way British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with a claim he made 
on his home  emergency  cover policy.
Reference to BG includes its plumbing engineers, contractors  and agents.
background
Mr L has a property which he rents to tenants. He has BG Homecare which  provides  cover 
for the central heating system including the boiler.
In late 2018 there was a problem with the hot water  at the property which  previous visits had 
failed to resolve. The technician who originally attended felt the problem was with the hot 
water system not the boiler  itself. In October 2018  Mr L called BG to upgrade  the cover to 
include plumbing and drains. Hed heard BG offer an initial  repair for £69, plus annual  cover 
at additional cost. So he signed up for the repair  and cover option, and £8 was added to his 
monthly direct debit. The visit was arranged for 2 November 2018. 
The problem was initially  thought to be caused by a mixer tap constantly demanding hot 
water and causing the boiler pressure to drop.  BG contractors attended on 2 November,  and 
attempted a repair. They  installed a lever  handle and an isolation valve.  But this didnt 
resolve the issue, which they thought  was most  likely to relate to leaks  in the copper pipes 
rather than the boiler  or plumbing  within the property. As leak detection wasnt included  in 
the initial repair visit Mr L was told hed be responsible for the cost of any further work. Mr L 
feels no initial repair took place. And as any repair would inevitably involve tracing  and 
accessing the fault, he considers its unfair for the policy  to exclude the cost of this.
Our investigator thought the terms of Mr Ls policy were clear and leak detection  wasnt  
covered as the BG contractors had concluded. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L 
disagreed so its come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
I can understand Mr L was frustrated  that previous visits  hadnt resolved the problem at his 
tenanted property.  Hed heard about  BGs repair and cover option, but the BG agent who 
set up the policy also told him about  on demand where an engineer would carry out an 
inspection and provide a quote for the repair. Ive listened to the call between  the BG agent 
and Mr L. And I think its clear Mr L wanted  to keep his repair costs as low as possible, as he 
asked if he could have  a discount on the £8 fee for upgrading  his cover,  as an existing BG 
customer. So I think he was relying  on getting the problem resolved for £69. The policy did 
have certain exclusions  which  was explained  to him by the BG agent over the phone, and 
followed by written confirmation of the terms and conditions.
During the call, the BG agent clearly explained the costs, and that the increased monthly 
payment of £39.73 would apply for the next two months as Mr Ls Homecare policy  was due 
for renewal in January 2019. The agent  firstly told Mr L the initial  repair would cover the first 
fault and any directly related fault to plumbing and drains  for £69 including  all taxes. He 
Ref: DRN84994902says the policy covers the plumbing system and water supply system within the property 
boundary, the cost of parts and labour, and up to £1,000 to gain access. The agent then 
goes on to explain the exclusions. I can hear he does tell Mr L the initial  repair doesnt 
include the water supply pipe or cylinder repairs, or the cost of gaining access  to make  
repairs. Mr L was also told about some other exclusions to the initial repair,  which arent 
relevant to this decision. 
The agent  also told Mr L the policy allows up to £1,000 to gain access and I note this is 
explained in the policy terms. But this latter point refers to the plumbing and drains 
Homecare policy itself,  not to the initial repair covered by the fixed  fee, which is a more 
basic cover.  So this means  that whilst Mr L does in fact benefit from that clause for any 
subsequent issues  after the initial repair, he does not benefit from it for the initial repair  itself 
where access is needed. So while I think it could have been  made  clearer, Im satisfied that 
the BG agent  did tell Mr L that the initial repair visit would only cover a fault which didnt 
require it to gain access  to fix. 
Further, in addition to the information  during  the call, Mr L was also sent the terms and 
conditions of the policy which said it covered One  off home improvement and repair  
service.   Section 3 says it does not cover The cost of materials  and labour needed to gain 
access to your system such as pipes  or wiring  buried in walls or built in appliances or lifting 
carpet or other floor coverings.  
Mr L says the first visit didnt solve the problem so he didnt get the initial  repair hes paid 
for, but I dont agree. The visit took place and a repair was attempted based on the original 
diagnosis of a problem being  with the mixer tap. But the actual problem related to leaky  
water supply pipes, which  required more extensive  investigation to locate the source of the 
leak, as well as the actual repair work.  Mr L wasnt  specifically told leak detection was 
excluded, just that access was. BGs  contractors were subsequently able to use specialist  
non-invasive leak detection equipment so it wasnt  necessary to remove  the floor coverings 
to identify the source of the leak. But even  if access wasnt required to locate the source  of 
the leak, access would be required to repair it, which isnt covered by the policy. .
I understand Mr L is unhappy  at having  to pay for the works needed to repair the leak,  when 
he was hoping it would be resolved  by an initial visit costing £69. But for the reasons  
explained above, I think he was told the initial visit wouldnt cover  any work which required 
gaining access,  either  to identify the source  of the problem  or the actual repair. So under  
these circumstances,  I dont think its reasonable to expect to pay a fixed  fee for an initial 
repair no matter how complex the job turned  out to be.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8499490