K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund him for a number of transactions he 
didnt authorise.  And they also failed  to recover funds for transactions he authorised but 
didnt receive the service  for. 
Background
In October  2018 Mr M contacted HSBC to say hes unhappy that a number of transactions 
were made on his account which he didnt authorise.
Mr M explained he last used his card on the 2 October 2018 and lost his wallet  and his 
phone soon after this. His last chip and PIN transaction was on the 27 September  2018. 
He also raised some  transactions with HSBC  that hed authorised  for a course but he didnt 
get the service  hed received. 
HSBC looked  into Mr Ms complaint. But they decided not to refund  the disputed  
transactions. They thought that Mr M had authorised  the transactions  and in summary they 
said:
-The same  IP address  was used prior to the disputed transactions for Mr Ms online 
banking.
-Theres no PIN compromise  the last PIN transaction was six days prior to the 
disputed transactions.
-Usually a fraudster  will spend very quickly on gaining a card and PIN.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. They concluded  that on balance 
Mr M likely authorised the disputed transactions. 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators conclusions  and also asked  whether  hed be getting his 
money refunded  for the course. 
Our investigator contacted HSBC to discuss the transactions  Mr M had authorised  for the 
course. Some of these payments were made via card and one via bank transfer to a bank Ill 
call W. HSBC  reviewed their position  on the authorised  transactions.  They  accepted that 
Mr M contacted them within the required timeframe to raise a chargeback for the card 
payments. But unfortunately they didnt  action this. So, they decided to refund Mr M these 
payments as a gesture of goodwill. But they didnt refund the bank transfer and said theyd 
tried to contact Bank W to ask them to retrieve the funds but this wasnt  successful. Our 
investigator explained to Mr M that he felt HSBC had acted fairly here.  
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  In summary he said:
-His email could  have  been hacked  and he lost his phone in October  2018   hed 
provide evidence of this. This is why the IP addresses must be the same.
-He doesnt  understand  why HSBC refunded the card payments for the course but not 
bank transfer. HSBC are an international bank  so should have been  able to get this 
back for him. 
As Mr M didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been  passed to me for a decision. 
 
Ref: DRN80159682My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr M liable  for the disputed  transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ms genuine card, PIN and long card 
number were used  to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So I also need to 
think whether the evidence  suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude  that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-Some of the disputed transactions were carried out via online payments.  Ive seen 
evidence from HSBC  that these were  carried  out via an IP address that Mr M has 
previously used  when  accessing his online banking. Mr Ms provided some  evidence 
to show another  online account  he had was compromised. And he suggests thats 
why the IP addresses are the same. But, I cant see how another  of Mr Ms accounts  
being compromised  explains how the same IP address was used to log in to Mr Ms 
online banking and for the disputed  online transactions. 
-The first of the online transactions Mr M is disputing occurred in May 2018   but he 
didnt raise this as a dispute until October 2018, over 6 months  later. I find this odd, 
considering hed logged onto his online banking a number of times during  this period.
-One of the disputed  transactions  was successfully carried out via chip and PIN. But 
theres no convincing  explanation for how a fraudster could have obtained  Mr Ms 
PIN. He explained he didnt  write his PIN down and the last chip and PIN transaction  
he carried out was over six days before the first disputed transaction.  It seems  
unlikely a fraudster  would wait six days if theyd shoulder surfed Mr Ms PIN at this 
opportunity.
-On the 15 October 2018 a transaction was attempted using Mr Ms cancelled card in 
a shop Ill call T. 10 seconds after this transaction was declined the same transaction 
was successfully carried out using the replacement card which  was sent to Mr M. I 
find it difficult to understand how either the fraudster had access  to both cards or 
Mr M managed to get his cancelled card back. 
 
-Id expect a fraudster to spend as quickly and as much  as possible once they gain 
access to a card and PIN. Or Mr Ms card details. But this wasnt the case. 
Im satisfied that when  Mr M contacted HSBC about the authorised  card payments they 
should have raised the chargeback. HSBC have offered to refund Mr M the payments as a 
gesture of good  will  and I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN80159683Ive gone on to consider if HSBC acted fairly in their actions  in trying to recover  Mr Ms bank 
transfer to Bank W. HSBC  have  explained  they contacted Bank W in an attempt to recall  the 
funds but unfortunately Bank  W were  unable to retrieve  these.  I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mr M but because  of the age of this transaction, which was prior to the 
introduction of best practice standards regarding Authorised Push  Payments, I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to do anything further  here. I understand that Mr Ms frustrated that HSBC 
have accepted they didnt  do enough  with the authorised card payments.  But the difference 
here is the payment to Bank W wasnt made  via card,  instead  it was a bank transfer and 
therefore HSBC  were unable to raise a chargeback on Mr Ms behalf. So in summary, Im 
satisfied they did what Id expect here. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr M authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
-Refund Mr M £257.40
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8015968