K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Topaz Finance Limited has wrongly asked her to repay  debt. Mrs A 
says this has caused her extreme  upset  and worry. 
Mrs A would like compensation of around  £1,750 for lost earnings and £250 for the suffering 
caused to her and her family caused  by this mistake.
background
In 2011 Mrs A was declared bankrupt. In September 2018  the mortgaged  property was sold 
and the loan with Topaz  was repaid. 
On 26 October 2018 Topaz sent a letter to Mrs A. It said it would be pursuing Mrs A for 
repayment of the shortfall (of around  £35,000). The shortfall came  about because the 
propertys sale proceeds hadnt been enough to clear the whole loan balance.
Mrs A complained to Topaz on 2 November 2018  and brought  the matter to us. On 3 
December 2018  Topaz  issued  a final response saying that it hadnt  followed the correct 
process and that it wouldnt  be pursuing her for a shortfall balance. It also said it shouldnt  
have sent her the letter dated 26 October  2018. As a goodwill  gesture Topaz  offered to 
update Mrs As credit file, even though it hadnt seen sight of a document discharging her 
from her bankruptcy.
Mrs A had already  referred her complaint to us. And she was still unhappy after reading 
Topazs response. Mrs A said she found Topazs goodwill gesture to be insulting. 
Our investigator thought that Topazs  mistake had caused Mrs A genuine suffering. He 
thought Mrs A would  have  been  really worried about  how shed repay the shortfall debt. He 
said Topaz should pay Mrs A £250 compensation for the upset it had caused.
Mrs A thought this compensation seemed low- and she was disappointed that the 
investigator didnt  think  Topaz should  replace her lost earnings.  She said its mistake had left 
her too traumatised  to work. However,  Mrs A decided to accept the payment. Topaz agreed 
with the investigators  findings.
However, some weeks later Mrs A had still not received  the compensation awarded. There  
was confusion about whether this payment has been made or not. Mrs A has asked for her 
complaint to be reopened and for an ombudsman to reach a decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I agree  with the investigators findings  that this complaint should be upheld. Topaz has 
accepted that it shouldnt  have sent Mrs A the letter on 26 October  2018. The letter said that 
it would  be pursuing  her for payment of a shortfall  debt.  Topaz  admits  its mistake and says it 
didnt follow  its correct  process. The letter shouldnt have been sent and Mrs A wont  be 
asked for any further repayments.
Ref: DRN88961672However, a dispute  remains regarding the compensation that should now be paid to settle 
the matter. Our investigator thought that £250 was reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
Having reviewed everything that has happened,  Im in broad agreement with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the content of the letter and the wider situation Mrs A found herself in. Mrs 
A has clearly had a very challenging time, and shes already had a complaint upheld  against 
Topaz on a linked issue regarding the same loan. I can understand that Mrs A had wanted  to 
put this matter behind her. And so I appreciate that Mrs A was really disappointed  to get the 
letter. This all seems  to have come about because Topaz doesnt seem  to have acted upon 
the agreed resolution of the last complaint  brought by Mrs A.
Im persuaded that receiving this letter  would  have had a serious impact on Mrs A. I can see 
why it would have  made  Mrs A anxious, and why it reopened a stressful  situation that Mrs A 
had thought was sorted  out. 
Theres also been confusion during  the course of this complaint. Mrs A and Topaz  agreed  to 
settle the matter  with a payment of £250  to be made  by Topaz to Mrs A. This didnt happen 
and I consider this wider  situation to be poor customer service. Im pleased  to hear that 
Topaz has now made the £250 award recommended by our investigator. Mrs A has also 
confirmed shes received this money.  
Having taken into account all the circumstances, I think its fair that Topaz  should  pay Mrs A 
compensation of £250 for its recent mistake. I know Mrs A will be disappointed that I havent 
awarded her lost income of around £1,750.  Ive thought about everything Mrs As said about 
the impact this matter  has had on her and her family. Mrs As mentioned that she is 
struggling financially  and that she needed this compensation.  It seems that Mrs A is under 
some pressure for a number of reasons at the moment. It may be that there are a number of 
issues that prevented  Mrs A achieving the self employed earnings  shes said she would 
usually expect to earn over this period. After careful  consideration, I dont think theres 
enough evidence  to show that Topazs  error was the only reason for Mrs As lost earnings. 
As a result, I dont think it would be fair to make Topaz  pay Mrs A further compensation  for 
lost earnings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Topaz Finance Limited. Topaz  
Finance Limited  should pay Mrs A compensation of £250 to settle the matter. I understand 
this payment has already been  made and I make  no further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8896167