K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Allianz plc wouldnt  pay his claim under his motor insurance policy.
background 
Mr S claimed under his policy when his car was damaged by fuel contamination, but Allianz  
wouldnt pay his claim. This was because the policy excluded fuel contamination damage 
unless the contamination had happened in very specific circumstances. Allianz  said that 
Mr S hadnt  shown that those circumstances applied. 
Mr S complained to Allianz. He said that he now had a car he couldnt drive  or afford to 
repair but the car finance company were still chasing him for payment for it. But Allianz still 
wouldnt honour his claim,  so Mr S brought his complaint to us. He was represented by his 
daughter Ms S.
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
Allianz had acted in line with their policy and hadnt been unreasonable.
Mr S didnt agree and so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that Mr S had previously complained to this service about  his car finance  company and 
that we have issued a decision  on that matter. So I wont deal with that here. Im only looking 
here at Allianz  and how they dealt with Mr Ss car insurance claim.  
Mr S says that his car broke down and his garage  said that this was because his cars  fuel 
was contaminated  and it had damaged his car. Allianzs engineer came out to look at his car, 
took a fuel sample  and got an inspection report on it from an independent consultant. The 
report said that the fuel was heavily contaminated with water, sediment and red diesel 
markers and had a strong disinfectant odour. Mr S disagrees that there was red diesel in it. 
He says he got friends to analyse  it but he hasnt got an actual report.  But as Allianz accept 
that Mr Ss car fuel was contaminated and that it damaged his car, I dont need to go into 
any more detail about that. 
Allianz said that Mr Ss policy didnt  cover this damage. They did so at first under a different 
policy clause. But they apologised  for that and I dont think that caused any unfair delay. 
Allianz declined  his claim because, as his policy says on pages  27 and 28, it doesnt cover:    
Any injury, loss, damage or liability caused  by pollution or contamination unless the pollution 
or contamination is caused by a sudden identifiable  unintended and unexpected incident 
which occurs in its entirety at a specific time and place during the period of insurance.  
Ref: DRN86036242Mr S says the car did break  down  suddenly because of the fuel contamination, and has 
shown us that a roadside recovery company did attend and recover  his car. But its the 
cause of the contamination that has to be sudden and identifiable, and not the cause  of the 
breakdown.
Mr S felt that the cause of the contamination must  have been that hed received 
contaminated fuel when he'd last bought fuel at a particular  garage, a day or so before  the 
breakdown, and that hed driven his car about  60 miles since then. But he couldnt prove 
where or when hed bought the fuel. He said hed paid by cash and hadnt  kept any receipts.  
Allianz felt this wasnt good enough evidence of the cause of the contamination.  They felt 
that it was more likely that the damage  to his car was because of long term use of poor 
quality fuel. Mr S was unhappy about that, as he felt they were accusing him of contaminating  
it himself. He also provided a copy of a newspaper report showing that in his local city there 
had been instances of garage petrol being contaminated. But as these werent  the garage 
where he said that hed bought his fuel, I dont think that helps him. Allianz thought that Mr S 
should have returned to that garage  and taken it up with them, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that he did that.
Its not our role to decide how the fuel was contaminated, but instead to decide  if Allianz  
have acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys  terms and conditions  when 
they made their decision about that and about Mr Ss claim. 
Under the policy, its up to Mr S to prove that the cause  of his cars fuel contamination was a 
sudden identifiable  unintended and unexpected incident which  occurs  in its entirety at a 
specific time and place. He says it was contaminated fuel from a specific garage, and Allianz 
have to decide if that was more likely than not. I see that Allianz did consider  this potential cause  
and that they asked Mr S fair questions about  it and gave him the chance to show them  evidence 
which could help him establish that. But on the basis of the evidence that Allianz had, I cant  say 
theyve been unreasonable to decide as they did. I do see that this must be frustrating for 
Mr S, particularly when he says hes had so many  previous problems with his car. But I can 
look only at whether Allianz have done  anything wrong  here. And, as I dont think that they 
have, I dont require  them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8603624