K821x#15complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr A and Miss Bs complaint in February  2019,  copy 
attached. I said I was minded not to uphold their complaint.  
I asked Mr A and Miss B and Santander if they had any further comments before I issued a 
final decision. Mr A and Miss B responded to say they didnt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr A and Miss Bs case.
As Mr A and Miss B and Santander have nothing to add, my reasons are the same as set 
out in my provisional  decision and it follows that I do not uphold their complaint.
my decision
I do not uphold  Mr A and Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80788242copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  them  a monthly  
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr A and Miss B were  sold a MPPI  policy in 2011, around the same time as they took out their 
joint mortgage  at a meeting  with the bank.
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr A was off work 
sick. The policy didnt  cover  Mr A for unemployment or Miss B at all.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr A and Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. Santander didnt agree  
with our adjudicator and so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made a decision on what I think  is most likely  to have 
happened  based on whats  available.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr A and Miss Bs case.
Having done that, Im minded not to uphold Mr A and Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive considered whether  Mr A was eligible  under  the policy.  Based on Mr As age and 
circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that he was eligible.
Santander had to make  it clear to Mr A and Miss B that the MPPI was optional and that they didnt 
need to take it to get the mortgage. Mr A and Miss B say they had no idea MPPI had been added 
and they didnt need the cover.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  at the time the MPPI was sold to Mr A and Miss B.
Ive seen a copy of their mortgage application form. Theres  no mention of MPPI on that form.  Ive 
also seen their mortgage offer. That makes it clear that they do not have to take any insurance 
through Santander to get the mortgage. Santander no longer has a copy of all of the paperwork  from 
the time of sale. But banks  often only keep records for six years.  Given  what  I have seen, I think  it 
likely that Mr A and Miss B wouldve had to complete  a separate application form to apply for MPPI. 
Based on the paperwork available, I cant see how MPPI couldve  been added without  them knowing 
about it.
I also see that Mr A took out accident and sickness cover only,  and Miss B wasnt covered at all 
under the policy. This leads  me to think there was probably a discussion  about the type of cover they 
wanted, and they opted to take out the cover that best suited their needs.
So, overall, I think its more  likely that Mr A and Miss B were made aware that the MPPI was optional 
and that it was applied to the account because they chose to take it out. I can understand why they 
may not remember that now given how much time has passed.
Ref: DRN80788243Santander didnt recommend the policy to Mr A and Miss B. This means  it didnt have to check it 
was suitable for them.  But, it did have to give them  enough clear information  for them  to decide  if 
PPI was right for them  and they wanted to buy it. Although only Mr A was covered under the policy, 
Ive taken into account Miss Bs circumstances too as the MPPI was covering their joint mortgage.
-Mr A said he wouldnt  have  got any sick pay through work, but that Miss B couldve  met 
their repayments  if he wasnt working. They said her family couldve helped  out too. They 
also said they had some savings, around 8 months worth of pay and they had life and 
critical illness cover. The MPPI  was protecting their home. I think  MPPI couldve been 
useful to guarantee  that their mortgage repayments could be met if Mr A was too sick to 
work and they were  down to just Miss Bs income. The policy  wouldve  paid out for up to 12 
months, which was longer than Miss Bs work benefits wouldve  covered her for in the 
unfortunate event of them both being unable  to work. It wouldve allowed them  to use their 
savings to help meet  their other household expenses. Whilst I accept  that Miss Bs family 
may have  wanted to help with their mortgage repayments, help of this kind cant  always be 
guaranteed, so I havent  placed  much reliance on this. So, I think MPPI  couldve provided  
them with a valuable benefit and I cant  see that their other resources made the policy 
inappropriate for them.
-Mr A didnt appear to have been  affected by the terms in the policy which would  have made 
it difficult for him to make  a successful claim under  the policy.  So, I dont think  having  more  
information about  the things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  their decision to take 
out MPPI.
-I havent seen any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr A and Miss 
B at the time of the sale. I dont know what they were told about the cost of the policy, but I 
think they wouldve understood they had to pay a separate amount for it, because  it wasnt 
included in the monthly payment included in the mortgage offer.
-Mr A and Miss B could have cancelled  the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it
Its possible the information  Santander  gave Mr A and Miss B wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been, but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them  off taking it out. I cant see that it would  have. So having  
taken everything into consideration, I dont currently think Santander mis-sold Mr A and Miss B this 
MPPI policy.
my provisional  decision
I am minded not to uphold Mr A and Miss Bs complaint against  Santander UK Plc.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8078824