K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bradford and Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr A took out a mortgage with B&B in 1997.  At the same time he bought a PPI policy  which 
wouldve covered  his repayments on his mortgage if couldnt work due to accident, sickness 
or redundancy. The policy cost around £19 per month and wouldve met his mortgage 
repayments of around £292 per month. For the first six months,  the policy was free.
Mr A ended this mortgage in 2003.  He then took out another  mortgage through a different 
mortgage provider.  He also took out a new PPI policy,  but still through  B&B. This cost him 
around £18.37  per month for £375  per month  of cover. Again, it provided  cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Mr A said,  in summary, he:
didnt want or need the PPI;
was made redundant in 2004  and didnt make a claim;
wasnt able to work due to sickness for 9 weeks in 2006 and didnt make  a claim;
didnt default  on his mortgage  repayments;
had other  loans, which were repaid in full, without him having  PPI;
had no dependants;
couldve found work easily, given his line of work  and skills; and
was a residential landlord, and had never claimed on household insurances.
He also said PPI was a condition of the mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr As complaint should  be upheld.  Mr A disagreed, so his case 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
1997 policy
I cant know what Mr A discussed with B&B. But, B&B has provided a copy of Mr As 
mortgage application form. Mr A agreed to take the PPI, and signed the paperwork. It made 
it clear on the paperwork  that PPI would only be added with agreement , and that the first six 
months were  free. Ive also seen Mr As mortgage  offer. PPI is not included and is not a 
condition of the mortgage, so from the paperwork, its apparent that Mr A didnt need to take 
PPI to get the mortgage.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr A was led to believe that PPI was compulsory 
Ref: DRN86430122So, on balance, I think Mr A bought the PPI knowing he had a choice. I can understand why 
he may not remember it that way now, after so much time. 
Mr A says B&B advised him to buy the policy. B&B said they didnt recommend PPI to Mr A. 
Our adjudicator thought that B&B recommended  the policy to Mr A. I havent seen anything 
to suggest Mr A was given tailored  personal advice from B&B.  So, I dont think B&B were 
obliged to take steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr A. But, even if B&B did 
advise Mr A to take out this policy, I cant see that PPI was unsuitable for him. I say this 
because:
Mr A was eligible  to take out the cover;
based on what hes said about  his circumstance he wouldnt have been  affected by 
any of the main limitations or exclusions which mightve made it more difficult for him 
to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions or 
self-employment. As he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy  offered, I think  
he wouldve still taken out the policy even if he had been  given clearer information;
Mr A said he wouldve got a generous amount of sick pay from his employer. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to this, and for up to 12 months per successful 
claim, so potentially for longer than his work benefits wouldve covered him for. The 
policy wouldve also paid out on top of any redundancy pay Mr A was eligible to get 
from his employer, again for up to 12 months per successful claim. So, I think  the 
policy couldve provided him with a useful benefit;
It was a monthly paid policy, and couldve  been cancelled at any time without  Mr A 
losing out financially.  It appeared  affordable. The policy  was free for the first six 
months, which may have  encouraged  Mr A to take out the cover in the first place. 
However, it seems B&B did tell him up front what hed have to pay after that. 
Mr A had some savings. However,  I cant see that these other resources made the 
policy inappropriate for him. It wouldve allowed him to use these to meet his other 
household expenses if he was out of work, particularly,  as it appeared, he alone  was 
responsible for meeting his household  costs.
I dont think more, or better, information wouldve made a difference  to Mr As decision to 
buy the PPI. I think it was suitable  and appropriate  for him and he said he wanted it.
So I dont  think Mr A has lost out as a result of anything B&B mightve  done  wrong.   
2002 policy
Mr A re-mortgaged through  a separate provider. But, still took out PPI cover through  B&B.  I 
cant see anything to suggest that B&B led him to believe he had to take PPI through it, to 
cover this mortgage through a separate  lender.  I think it more likely that Mr A took out PPI 
cover with B&B because  he wanted  to, to protect his mortgage repayments.
Mr A believes the insurance was recommended  to him. Our adjudicator  thought B&B 
recommended the PPI to Mr A. I cant see it did. But, even if B&B recommended it to him, I 
cant see that this wouldve been  unsuitable advice given his circumstances. Either way, 
B&B still had to give him enough  clear  information so that he could  make  an informed choice 
about taking out the cover. 
Mr As circumstances were largely the same in 2002. So for the same reasons as given 
above, I think this policy  was suitable  and appropriate for him. He mentioned  being  out of 
work and off sick and not claiming on the policy. These events occurred post sale,  so I cant 
Ref: DRN86430123see that they wouldve had a bearing  on the appropriateness of the policy,  or influenced his 
decision about whether to take PPI, at the time of sale. Also, Mr A said he didnt claim on the 
policy. If he wants B&B to consider a retrospective claim or claims, he should approach it 
direct. 
Ive taken into account everything that Mr A has said, including  that he was a residential 
landlord at the relevant time. However,  I cant see that any additional  income he had from 
this, made  the policy clearly unsuitable  or inappropriate for him. 
I cant see that Mr A has lost out because of the way these policies were sold to him, so I 
dont uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr As complaint so it follows  that Bradford and Bingley Plc dont have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8643012