K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) will not refund any commission it 
received from his mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (PPI) premiums  for the policy  he 
took out in 1996.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Cs complaint  about  commission. Thats because 
BoS replied to Mr Cs complaint about mis-selling the PPI in 2012. Unhappy  with BoS reply 
he brought the complaint  to this service. And in 2013 we looked at the complaint and found 
the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr C, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
I note BoS originally said Mr Cs mortgage ended in 2007, but this was an error and referred 
to the policy  end date, not the mortgage. BoS has given me information  that shows Mr Cs 
mortgage was taken out in 1996 and ended  in 2002 when he re-mortgaged to a new lender. 
Mr C has confirmed this. The new mortgage  was a new credit agreement  and not a 
continuation of the original. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr C paid for the PPI he had with his 
mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN84397322Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8439732