K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the settlement made to them by their home  insurer,  Ageas 
Insurance Limited, in respect of a claim  they made when their kitchen was damaged  by a 
water leak.
background
There was a leak and Ageas  accepted  the claim.  But it noted that not all of the kitchen had 
been damaged  by the leak. It said it would pay Mr and Mrs D £1,762.78 in settlement  of its 
liability for reinstating  the water  damaged  parts of the kitchen. Mr and Mrs D didnt think  it 
was fair for Ageas to limit its settlement in this way and complained to this service.
My fellow ombudsman considered the mater and decided Ageas should pay 50% towards 
the cost of replacing undamaged kitchen units. Mr and Mrs D accepted this decision. Ageas 
considered the evidence  and made  an offer of settlement for the undamaged items.  This 
was then revised on at least one occasion.
Ultimately Ageas issued  a final response  to Mr and Mrs D. By that point it had offered to 
pay Mr and Mrs D £2,612.07 and in its final response it confirmed that (its emphasis):
the settlement  of £2,612.07, for the undamaged, matching  units, IS correct.
But Ageas  wouldnt  break that down for Mr and Mrs D or show how it had got to that sum. 
Mr and Mrs D had paid £8,886.83 for a new kitchen,  plus £3,060  to their carpenter for 
removing the old kitchen, plastering  the ceiling and fitting the new kitchen. That totalled
£11,946.83 so they didnt see how Ageas could reasonably settle for a total of £4,374.85 
(the total of the payment  it had previously made and the one now offered). They  felt that 
seeing a breakdown would help them work  out if that was fair and reasonable or not. They  
complained to this service again.
Our adjudicator had Ageas provide a costed  scope of works for sharing with Mr and Mrs D. 
And he said that an insurer can usually settle  claims in cash at the rate it would  cost it to 
carry out the work. Therefore,  it wouldnt  be unusual  for Ageas settlement to equate to less 
than Mr and Mrs D had paid for their kitchen.
Once Mr and Mrs D saw the scope they were adamant Ageas settlement  was unfair. At the 
same time Ageas clarified its offer. It said that its offer in total for the kitchen was £2,612.07.  
That this total sum included the amount previously paid of £1,762.78 with what  remained 
(£849.29) being  its allowance for replacing  50% of the undamaged items.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I asked Ageas about its 
clarification. I said its new position  wasnt supported by its file detail, its costed scope for 
works or its final response. Ageas remained adamant that £2,612.07 was its total liability for 
reinstating 100% of the damage in the kitchen and 50% of the undamaged units.
I issued a provisional decision explaining to both parties why I felt Ageas should pay 
£2,612.07, plus interest  in settlement  of Mr and Mrs Ds claim and complaint. Ageas 
accepted my findings and paid the money to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with 
my findings.  Ive considered their comments but what they say hasnt changed my decision. 
My provisional findings, Mr and Mrs Ds response  and my view on that are all set out below 
as my findings of this, my final decision. 
Ref: DRN88993362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I said provisionally:
I think Ageas  previous payment and offer of settlement (before that offer was 
clarified/retracted) actually equated to a fair settlement for Mr and Mrs D. Ill explain why 
below. But as Ageas has effectively retracted that offer Ill be upholding this complaint so 
that I can make an award for that sum which will mean that, if Mr and Mrs D accept my final 
decision (assuming it remains the same), Ageas will have to pay the proffered sum.
Ageas has now paid this to Mr and Mrs D. But my decision and award will remain.
My provisional findings continued:
In 2017 Ageas created a scope in order to calculate a payment for damaged  items.  That 
equated to £1,762.78, including VAT, and this sum was paid to Mr and Mrs D. Later,  when 
Ageas had to calculate  what was fairly owed by it for undamaged items it created another  
scope. This was headed 50% contribution, and it set out what  its contribution was, 
inclusive of VAT. And throughout its file Ageas referred to it assessing and calculating  what 
its 50% contribution  was, and what it should  pay for undamaged items. Even to the 
extent within  its final response, the focus of which was the settlement offered for 
undamaged items, where Ageas confirmed unequivocally that the figure of £2,612.07 for 
undamaged items was correct. There was no suggestion that this sum wouldnt be paid to 
Mr and Mrs D or that all they would be paid was the difference between  this sum and the 
previously paid amount  of £1,762.78  (£849.29). So Im satisfied that the figure of £2,612.07 
is a fair representation of 50% of what Ageas felt was needed to reinstate the undamaged 
matching items.
Ive seen nothing  to make  me think it should reasonably pay them less than this. 
Particularly not when  its been so clear as to the basis of the offer its made. The question  
for me is should it reasonably have to pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs D originally got an estimate from W. Ageas accepted,  barring a few minor 
additions, such as a waste bin, that this equated to a like-for-like reinstatement. Ageas then 
used this scope  as the basis of its settlement, applying its costs  to the work detailed. 
However, the policy doesnt allow  Ageas to do that. So that might well mean that the basis 
for Ageas settlement was flawed. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs D are 
reasonably entitled to being  paid more.
Ive satisfied myself, as explained  above,  that Ageas would have paid £1,762.78 for 
reinstating the damaged items  and £2,612.07  as 50% of the cost of reinstating undamaged 
but matching items. Therefore, I can reasonably conclude that Ageas costs for reinstating 
the kitchen as a whole (ignoring for a minute any limitation it may be allowed to apply for 
undamaged items), on a like-for-like basis would be £6,986.92  (£1,762.78 plus,  two times 
£2,612.07). From what Ive seen this total sum is not much less than that Mr and Mrs D 
actually paid for reinstating their kitchen (as far as reinstating the damaged parts and any 
undamaged but matching parts are concerned).
Ref: DRN88993363The kitchen Mr and Mrs D actually installed cost £8,886.83 including VAT. But this included  
things that Ageas wasnt liable for replacing  under the claim, like a new cooker. The total of 
these uninsured items, including VAT, worked  out at around  £4,100.  But the new kitchen 
also comprised units of a better quality than those Mr and Mrs D had before  if theyd 
replaced the units on a like-for-like basis theyd likely have paid less. Its difficult to quantify  
though how that would have affected  the overall cost. For now,  removing only sums for the 
uninsured items from the materials cost, gives Mr and Mrs D a total loss for this aspect of 
£4,886.83 (including VAT).
There was then a charge  from a carpenter for removing the old kitchen, repairing the ceiling 
and fitting the new kitchen. This came to £3,060, no VAT was charged.
Adding these two figures together  gives a total of £7,946.83. I think  this can reasonably be 
said to reflect the cost Mr and Mrs D incurred in reinstating the damaged and undamaged 
but matching parts  of their kitchen.  It is a little bit more  than what Ageas has said its cost for 
that would be, but only around £1,000. And, as mentioned above, I havent,  so far, made 
any allowance for the extra but unquantified  cost of upgraded units  having  been installed.
Given the prices arent worlds apart,  and that I have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs D can 
only fairly claim for costs incurred regarding like-for-like replacement  items, I think Ageas 
(before it retracted its offer) had made a reasonable calculation of their likely loss.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D may still feel they are out of pocket but the difficulty here is 
always going to be that they opted to fully replace their kitchen and with one that wasnt  like 
their old one. That means assessing their actual and exact loss as a result of the water leak 
is quite difficult.  But what  I have  to do is decide if what  Ageas has done or offered is fair and 
reasonable. Based on the evidence  and figures  Ive seen  I think Ageas  original  payment 
and offer,  together,  represented a fair and reasonable settlement for Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
That outstanding offer of £2,612.07 is what Im going  to require Ageas to pay.
Mr and Mrs D said that as the quote by W was accepted to be like-for-like, this is what  
should be used  to assess whether Ageas settlement is fair. And that is some  £4,000  adrift 
of the £6,986.92 figure I had said likely reflected Ageas cost to replace the kitchen (before 
deducting anything  for undamaged but matching  items). So that suggested  Ageas 
settlement wasnt fair. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration. But because they didnt get work done  based on 
Ws quote, I cant assess  Ageas settlement offer against that cost. Quite simply that cost 
wasnt incurred by Mr and Mrs D. So if I made Ageas pay against it, that would equate  to 
betterment, which they arent entitled  to receive.   
My provisional findings concluded:
Ageas, when it initially offered to pay the sum of £2,612.07 to Mr and Mrs D, said it would 
add interest. Because Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the offer,  no payment was made. Ageas 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs D they could accept it and still complain. The interest Ageas added  at 
that time was implemented due to our previous  decision. That decision still stands so I cant 
re-award that interest. But I can require Ageas to pay interest on the sum of £2,612.07 
from 13 April 2018 (the date of its final response  and the date up to which it had previously 
calculated interest) and until settlement is made.
Its worth noting that if Ageas hadnt  retracted its settlement  offer, I wouldnt be upholding 
this complaint. My findings would still be the same though  that the offer was fair and 
Ref: DRN88993364reasonable. On that basis  Im not going to require Ageas  to pay any compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
I remain of the view, for the reasons stated provisionally and reproduced here,  that an 
additional £2,612.07 (to the £1,762.78 already  paid), plus interest  is fair and reasonable 
settlement for Mr and Mrs Ds claim. Im also still satisfied that no payment of compensation 
is fairly or reasonably due.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D an 
additional £2,612.07 (to the £1,762.78 already  paid) in settlement of their water damage 
claim, plus interest* from 13 April 2018  until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Ageas  Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs D, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8899336