K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, gave him loans he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Mr D took out the following instalment loans with Lending Stream:
date £ amount 
borrowedno./£ amount of
highest repayment
 at outset (rounded)date repaid
19 December 2017 500 6/232 6 January 2018
26 January 2018 500 6/212
320 January 2018 200 6/86
Mr D says that hes had poor health and has very little recollection of taking out these loans. 
He says he took them out via social media. Mr D says that Lending  Stream  bombarded him 
with messages to take out further loans. He says that Lending Stream  couldnt have carried  
out checks, as his credit rating  is awful.  Mr D wants Lending Stream  to cancel the debt and 
refund the amount hes paid. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lending  Stream  was wrong  to lend to Mr D. He said that it 
carried out proportionate checks before the loans and that it appeared that Mr D could  afford 
to repay  them.  The adjudicator didnt  think that Lending Stream had unfairly pressured Mr D 
into taking out the loans.  
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He says he couldnt afford these  loans and that he 
took out other loans to repay them. Mr D says Lending Stream didnt carry out credit checks  
as he got a response in seconds when he applied  via social media.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr D, Lending  Stream had to check  each time that he could afford 
to make the repayments.  The checks  it did had to be proportionate. Whats  proportionate 
depends on things  like the size of the loan repayments and the information  Lending  Stream 
had about Mr D. Theres no set list of the checks  a lender should carry out and its obligations 
remain the same whatever channel the customer uses to apply for the loans. 
Before agreeing to each  of the loan,  Lending  Stream asked Mr D about his monthly income 
which it recorded as around £2,100. It also asked him about his normal  monthly  living costs 
and regular financial commitments,  which it recorded as £1,535  before loan one and £1,100 
before loans two and three. Lending  Stream  also carried  out credit checks. 
Ref: DRN81828052I think that Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks  before lending to Mr D. For 
each of the loans it asked  about his income and expenditure. Given the pattern of lending 
and the level of repayments as against  Mr Ds stated disposable income,  I think that was 
sufficient. 
It appeared that Mr D could afford  the highest of the instalments. For loan one, Mr Ds 
disposable income was £627 and the highest repayment was £232. For loan two, Mr Ds 
disposable income was £916 and the highest repayment was £212. Mr D took out loan three 
before hed repaid loan two. He could afford  to repay the combined instalments of loans two 
and three  out of his disposable income  of £1,000.
Im sorry  that Mr D has had poor health  and doesnt  recall taking out the loans but that 
doesnt alter the outcome here. I think Lending  Stream carried  out proportionate checks  
before lending to Mr D and I dont  think  it was at fault in deciding that Mr D could afford to 
repay the loans.  
Mr D says that Lending Stream bombarded him with messages  about further loans. 
Lending Stream has provided us with the dates of its text messages to Mr D. It says that it 
cant provide us with the content  of those messages, as theyre system generated. Based on 
what Ive seen Im afraid I cant safely conclude  that Lending Stream  bombarded Mr D with 
messages about  taking  out other loans. 
Whilst Lending Stream sent Mr D a large number  of messages, a good  proportion are 
around either the time the loans were taken  out or leading up to dates when a repayment 
was due. Id expect Lending  Stream to contact Mr D around those times. Also, bearing in 
mind that loans two and three remain unpaid, some  of the texts  may well have been 
Lending Stream chasing for repayment. 
Mr D says that Lending Stream couldnt  have  carried out checks, as his credit rating is awful. 
As the adjudicator said, Lending Stream wasnt obliged to carry out a credit check. It says 
that it did so and Ive seen  that it knew about  Mr Ds defaults and other active accounts. Ive 
also seen the credit report that Mr D has provided. It shows  that he had poor credit  history, 
including defaults  and a county court judgment. Information a prospective  lender can get 
from a credit check isnt in the same detail as Mr D can see from his own credit report. I think 
that Lending Streams  checks  were  proportionate even though  it knew  about some of Mr Ds 
borrowing history.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D but there are no grounds on which  to direct  Lending Stream to 
cancel the debt and refund his repayments.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8182805