K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  U K Insurance Limiteds handling  of a subsidence claim made 
under their home insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J have been represented by a family member throughout their complaint, but for 
ease Ill refer to Mr and Mrs J in this decision.
Mr and Mrs J have a home insurance  policy with UKI which covers buildings and contents, 
amongst other things.
In 2014, they noticed cracks  in various parts of their home and made  a claim to UKI for what  
they suspected was subsidence damage.
UKI commissioned an expert report. This concluded the cracks in the property were due to 
poor construction of a front porch and a rear two-storey  extension. 
So, UKI declined  the claim saying Mr and Mrs Js policy  didnt cover  damage resulting from 
faulty construction.
Mr and Mrs J asked UKI to look again  at their property in 2016,  when  the cracks appeared to 
be getting worse.
UKI instructed their expert to provide another report. And again, this concluded that the 
damage evident in the property was due to faulty construction rather  than subsidence.  
At around the same time, Mr and Mrs J sent a letter to their neighbour putting him on notice 
that a tree in his garden was causing  damage  to their property and asking him to take steps 
to prevent further  damage.
They copied  this to the broker for the UKI policy. They say their letter  included  evidence 
about the damage being caused by the tree. And they say this evidence has now been lost.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to UKI about  their handling of the subsidence claim and about  the 
loss of the letter and associated evidence.
UKI didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs J brought it to us. Our investigator looked  
into it and thought it should  be upheld  in part. 
He thought the second expert report in 2016 didnt address all the issues UKI had told Mr 
and Mrs J they would consider.  So he asked  them to commission a third report, to 
definitively decide whether any of the damage to Mr and Mrs Js property was caused by 
subsidence. 
And he thought  UKI should  pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs J for the trouble  and 
upset theyd experienced when the second  report failed to address  all the issues  theyd 
raised.
Ref: DRN84845612Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with our investigator  and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. They felt they should  receive greater compensation and they wanted the third 
report to be provided by an expert of their choosing.
UKI also disagreed  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They dont believe 
theyve done anything wrong  in the way they handled Mr and Mrs Js claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that Mr and Mrs Js policy covers  damage caused  by subsidence. And it 
explicitly doesnt cover  damage which results  from faulty workmanship.
The 2014  expert report is very clear about the causes of the cracks in Mr and Mrs Js 
property. It says both additions - front porch and rear extension - hadnt been  adequately tied 
in to the pre-existing building. The expert concluded that the damage  evident in the property:
appears to have arisen from inadequate  construction methods rather than any 
obvious episode  of current or progressive  subsidence.
There was some confusion about whether Mr and Mrs J had their own independent expert  
report which came  to a different conclusion. 
I dont intend to go into any detail as to why that confusion arose, because its not important. 
The fact of the matter  is they didnt produce an expert opinion  to contradict UKIs experts 
view.
That being  the case, I cant conclude  that there was anything unfair or unreasonable in UKI 
declining the claim in 2014. The only expert evidence said that the damage was due to poor 
construction methods, not subsidence. And in the absence of any evidence  to the contrary,  
UKI were entitled to rely on their experts report.
It seems  to me that in 2016, Mr and Mrs J essentially  came  back  with the same  claim. They  
said the cracks had got worse. But thats  not entirely surprising. The 2014 report  
recommended work which needed to be carried out to guard against further damage arising 
from the construction faults. Mr and Mrs J didnt have that work carried out.
Bearing that in mind, I think UKIs  decision to commission a second report in 2016 might be 
seen as generous.  However, they did commission the report. And I have  to assume  they 
would only do so if they saw some  value in it. In other words, they must have thought it was 
at least possible that it would come to a different conclusion than the earlier  report.
Im also satisfied that the second report did not cover all of the damage  Mr and Mrs J had 
reported to UKI. The first report  looked at damage  to the porch  and front sitting  room,  plus 
the rear extension and rooms at the rear of the house. The second report  concerned itself 
entirely with the front porch.
The second  report  came  to the same  conclusion as the first  that the damage was due to 
poor construction, not subsidence.  But it only addressed the damage to the front porch.
Ref: DRN84845613As I say, I have to assume UKI saw a purpose  in the second report. And if they did, they 
should have ensured that it was carried out properly  and that it addressed  all of the issues 
raised by Mr and Mrs J.
Its conceivable that UKI chose not to ask their expert to look at the rear of the house  or 
that their expert chose  not to do so themselves  because during  the visit in 2014 Mrs J told 
the surveyor that theyd noticed the cracks many years previously  before UKI were  the 
insurer. 
However, UKI havent said thats  the case. Nor is any such  discussion or decision recorded  
in their records relating  to the claim or their handling  of Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
In any case, Mr and Mrs J were told by UKI that their expert would look at all the damage.  
And that would be sensible anyway, even  if UKI were later to decide that any claim should  
be referred to the previous insurer.
So, I agree  with our investigator that UKI should  now commission a third report. This should  
cover all of the areas of damage identified by Mr and Mrs J and should say very clearly  what 
the likely  cause of each area of damage  is. If relevant,  it should  also identify when exactly 
the damage would  have  begun to manifest itself.
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs J that this report needs to be carried  out by an independent 
expert of their choosing.  On a number of occasions throughout their handling of the claim, 
UKI offered to pay for an expert report to be commissioned by Mr and Mrs J. 
They chose not to take up that offer at any point. And Im not sure what  it would add at this 
stage. If the third report is in any way ambiguous,  unclear  or unfair,  Mr and Mrs J can take 
that up with UKI at the time.
I also agree  with our investigator that UKI should  compensate Mr and Mrs J for the trouble 
and upset caused by the second report not covering all of the issues  theyd  raised. 
It seems  to me that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation taking into account  all the 
circumstances, particularly the added stress Mr and Mrs J have suffered because  the issues 
werent resolved  satisfactorily by the second report.
I dont think UKI have acted in any way unreasonably of unfairly about the copy letter Mr and 
Mrs J sent to them about their neighbours tree. 
UKI received a letter from Mr and Mrs J  via the broker  who set up the policy - which  didnt 
require them to take any action. It contained  a copy of a letter to their neighbour  which  
asked him to take action. 
And it explicitly said that it may help  in any future  claim. So, it clearly  wasnt a claim letter  
and didnt require  UKI to do anything else at that time. UKI have a copy  of that letter on file in 
case any future claim does arise. 
Mr and Mrs J believe a second letter  sent at much  the same time  contained more 
evidence and was lost by the broker, to whom both letters were sent. 
Ref: DRN84845614I cant see how that second letter would add anything of any value at present given that 
there is no claim. If there  is a claim in future,  expert  assessments  can be carried  out to 
determine what damage the tree has caused.
If the second letter was in fact lost after it arrived with the broker  (rather than in the post), its 
likely it wasnt  received  by UKI because  the broker didnt forward  it on. 
I understand the broker has apologised for any failure on their part, but Mr and Mrs J are 
aware that they can make a separate complaint to the broker  about that if they wish.  
However, its clearly not something for me to consider as part of this decision  about UKI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint in part. 
U K Insurance Limited should commission a third expert report  to assess  the cause(s)  of all 
the damage reported by Mr and Mrs J as part of their claim.  And they should pay Mr and 
Mrs J £200 for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8484561