K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined to pay in full his claim made on his 
personal motor excess protection insurance policy. He wants it to pay his claim in full and 
pay him £300 compensation for his trouble and upset.
background
Mr V took out a motor excess protection policy with Great  Lakes. He hired  a car abroad and 
it was unfortunately  damaged when it was broken  into and his property was stolen. The hire 
company made a charge  to Mr V for this and Mr V thought this should be covered by his 
policy. 
Great Lakes initially declined the claim but later paid it in part. It said the policy covered 
damage costs deducted from his deposit by the hire company, but not its administration 
fees. But it also offered  Mr V £60 as a gesture of goodwill which  it said covered this loss. 
Mr V was unhappy with this and wanted compensation for the trouble making the claim had 
caused him. 
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Great 
Lakes had provided sufficient compensation to Mr V. He thought Great Lakes  shouldnt  
compensate Mr V for his potential losses. 
Mr V replied  that he wanted the claim paid in full and he wanted compensation for his loss of 
earnings due to the time hed spent  dealing with this matter.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr V 
and to Great Lakes  on 9 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mr Vs hire car agreement  included excesses for damage and theft. Mr Vs credit card had 
an amount blocked  on it as a deposit  against  a possible charge of the excess. I thought this 
was common practice  when hiring a car.
When Mr V returned his car, he was charged around  230 euros by the hire company.  This 
included amounts for damage, VAT,  a location premium and an admin  fee for opening a 
damage file. Great Lakes declined to pay the latter two items.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  The policy summary states  
under What is this type of insurance?:
This Personal Motor  Excess  Including 60 days Global Hire policy  provides cover  for 
you under  your motor  insurance policy in respect of your vehicle or a rental vehicle, 
where you are responsible for the excess under a rental agreement.
Great Lakes agreed, after Mr V complained,  that this didnt mean that he had to include the 
hire car on his motor  insurance policy. It said the policy  applied  to separate  insurance with 
the hire company. I thought this was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN88606282The policy excess is described as,
The amount  you must  pay in the event of a claim under the terms of your motor 
insurance policy, or the sum that is deducted  from your settlement in the event of a 
total loss claim.
So I took this to mean the amount Mr V must pay in the event of a claim on his insurance 
with the hire company. And, under  What is covered?,
This Personal Motor  Excess  Including 60 days Global Hire policy  will reimburse the 
value of your excess under your motor policy, or the sum of £1,500  (Whichever  is 
less) in respect  of each claim paid under your motor  insurance policy or rental 
agreement arising as a result of theft
Great Lakes initially said it wouldnt pay Mr Vs claim as it didnt cover deposits. But I didnt 
think this was fair or reasonable as the charges  made by the hire company were made under 
the policy excess. 
Great Lakes said it eventually agreed  to cover the damage charge as it decided this 
qualified as an excess  in the rental  industry. I couldnt see that it explained why it hadnt 
covered the other charges. The policy documents contain a list of policy exclusions. But I 
couldnt see that this included location  premiums or admin fees.
I thought that, as a result  of a qualifying incident (theft), the hire company made a charge 
which Mr V paid. I thought  the entirety  of this charge was incurred as the result  of a claim  
and so this was a payment of the policy excess. So I thought that, under the policy terms 
and conditions, Great Lakes should cover the full amount that Mr V has shown  that he has 
paid because of the claim on his insurance  with the hire company.  
Mr V has been put to some considerable trouble in having to make a complaint, in having  the 
policy terms and conditions clarified,  and in rebutting Great Lakes decisions to decline all or 
parts of his claim. Mr V asked for consideration of his hourly rate to calculate suitable 
compensation for this. But I didnt think that was fair or reasonable as I hadnt  seen  evidence  
that he lost employment opportunities due to this and we dont award  compensation for 
unevidenced or potential losses.
But I could see that Mr V spent time raising  his complaint. Great  Lakes said there  had been  
some confusion, but I thought its four different responses to Mr Vs complaint showed  that 
there was considerable confusion about  the policy terms and conditions. 
Great Lakes offered Mr V £60 as a goodwill payment which it said would also cover his 
losses. But I didnt think that went far enough  in the circumstances. I also didnt think that 
£300 compensation for Mr Vs inconvenience  was fair, for the reasons above. 
I thought Great Lakes should  pay Mr V £150 in total compensation (including the £60 
already offered) for the trouble and upset  its unfair  dismissal of his claim  has caused.
Subject to any further representations by Mr V or Great Lakes, my provisional  decision was 
that I intended to uphold  this complaint. I intended  to require Great  Lakes Insurance  SE to 
pay Mr Vs claim  in full and to pay him £150  compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor handling  of his claim and complaint.
Ref: DRN88606283my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr V replied restating his claim for 
£300 compensation for the time spent  and the inconvenience caused him. He also asked  for 
interest to be added to his claim which he said hasnt been paid. 
But, as I explained  above, I could see that Great Lakes  caused  confusion and 
inconvenience. But I think payment of his claim in full and £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I think this takes into account  any interest due because  of the delay in paying 
the claim.  This is in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great  Lakes Insurance SE to pay 
Mr Vs claim in full and to pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor handling of his claim and complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8860628