K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that after she made a claim on her motor  insurance policy,  Society of 
Lloyds caused  delays in the claims process and didnt  compensate  her properly.  Miss G is 
represented by her mother, Mrs G. References to Lloyds in this decision include its agents.
background
Miss Gs car was stolen  on 19 March  2019. It was recovered (damaged) within  a few hours 
by the police, who didnt release it until 29 March 2019. Lloyds accepted that it didnt 
arrange for an agent to collect the car for two weeks and that there  was a further two week  
delay in getting an engineers report.  
The car was a repairable total loss. Lloyds made an offer to Miss G for the car on 
3 May 2019.  A final offer was made a week later. The payment arrived in Miss Gs bank 
account on 4 June 2019, three working  days after she gave Lloyds her bank account  details.  
Miss G retained the car, which was taken  to her chosen garage for repair on 27 June 2019.
Mrs G said Miss G was without her car for 16 weeks from the date of the theft.  Lloyds 
compensated Miss G by paying her £300. It said that was for six weeks  delay in total,  
including the two weeks it took to get the car delivered back  to her. Mrs G said Miss G 
wasnt told the car was being taken to a salvage  yard initially, rather  than to an approved  
repairer. And she thought Miss G should  have been given a courtesy car. She also thought 
Lloyds should  cover the cost of the insurance premium, road tax and breakdown cover 
Miss G had paid for but hadnt used  due to Lloyds delays. 
One of our investigators  considered Miss Gs complaint. She didnt think Miss G was entitled  
to a courtesy  car under  the policy, or a refund of premium. She thought £300 was sufficient 
compensation for the delays. But she said Lloyds should pay her £75 for the road tax and 
breakdown cover she didnt use. Lloyds said Miss G could have declared her car off-road 
and had it re-taxed  as necessary. It didnt think shed had a financial loss on the breakdown 
policy. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I dont think Miss G was entitled to a courtesy  car. The policy says one will only be provided 
if a car is being repaired by one of Lloyds approved repairers. When  a theft claims made, 
theres often a delay  before a cars recovered,  and some cars arent found at all. If a car is 
found, it may not be suitable for repair. So there  are several sets of circumstances where  
consumers are left without transport until the insurer pays  a settlement sum. In this case, I 
cant say Lloyds did anything wrong  in not providing a courtesy car to Miss G.   
Lloyds wasnt to blame for the whole period Miss G was without  her car. I think  it was 15 
weeks until she got it back. Lloyds made its second settlement offer within six weeks  of the 
police releasing  the car. But the two week delay in having the car collected - and the further 
delay in getting an engineers report  stopped the car from being returned  to Miss G for four 
weeks. The other delay  that Lloyds accepted responsibility for was the period  between the 
claim being settled  and the car being returned  to Miss G. Lloyds says that was two weeks -  
although I agree with Mrs G that it was over three weeks.  Lloyds later said the delay was 
due to the availability of delivery dates and recovery vehicles. I cant  see anything  on the file 
about those issues,  or anything that shows Lloyds took steps to try to speed  up the process.
Ref: DRN82129732Miss G had been without  her car for many weeks by then. Lloyds knew she was going to 
have the car repaired, and until she did, shed have no transport. To a disabled  person, any 
delay is significant.  I think it would always have taken a few days  to arrange  the recovery. 
But in the absence of anything to show that Lloyds tried to address the delay, I think it would 
be fair for it to pay Miss G for the loss of use of her car for two of those weeks. Added to the 
other four weeks delay,  thats six weeks loss of use at £10 per day, so £420 in total.  
I dont think the rest of the period Miss G was without  a car was due to any fault on Lloyds 
part. The police had the car for two weeks. There was a delay of three weeks in Miss G 
providing bank  details to Lloyds so the settlement could be paid. I dont think the remaining 
four weeks  it took to deal with the claim was excessive, given that it had to be validated and 
a settlement sum agreed.
The full policy premium  was payable as a claim was made on it, so theres no basis for 
requiring Lloyds to refund  part of the premium, as Miss G would  like. I think  she was 
responsible for keeping  the car taxed unless she declared it off-road. And I dont think she 
can show she lost out by not having the chance to make a claim on her annual breakdown 
policy for a few weeks. 
Mrs G says Miss G wasnt kept informed about how the claim was being dealt with. I think  
its understandable that she was confused and concerned by that. I can see from the file 
notes that she wasnt  told initially  that it was Lloyds  usual  process  to have recovered stolen 
cars taken  to a salvage agents  premises for assessment. Lloyds is entitled to have its own 
process in place. But I think Miss G should have been informed. She then wouldnt have 
been shocked by the request  (made well before Lloyds had even made an offer for the car) 
to send in her documents and keys for its easier  dismantling.
Mrs G said Miss G was exhausted by having  to contact Lloyds various agents about the 
claim. Its clear from the emails that she thought the agents werent communicating with 
each other,  which  led to her trying  to contact them all, and having problems with that. 
Although Miss G made  fruitless attempts to contact Lloyds agents,  the file notes show that 
they tried unsuccessfully to contact  her at times. But as it wasnt  made clear to Miss G which 
agent was doing what, I think she was caused  avoidable inconvenience and upset. Overall,  I 
think the service Lloyds provided  to Miss G could have been better apart  from the delays.
In my opinion, Miss G faced upset and inconvenience that any consumer would have 
complained about. But from what Mrs G has said, I think  its more likely  than not that the 
service and the delays had more impact than average on Miss G, as a disabled  person. 
Lloyds apologised  to Miss G and offered her £300 compensation for the delays. I think that 
offer should  be increased. And in my opinion, it would be reasonable for Lloyds to pay 
Miss G £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience as well.   
Miss G accepted my provisional view. Lloyds asked  for clarification on the compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said Lloyds should offer Miss G a further £100  for distress and inconvenience. That was in 
addition to the £300 it had offered her for the delays  which were only partly responsible for 
Ref: DRN82129733her distress  and inconvenience. As I said in the provisional decision, I think  Lloyds contact  
with Miss G could have been better. She wasnt kept informed about the process and that 
caused her worry and confusion. I think that aspect  of Lloyds  poor service  caused her extra 
distress and inconvenience that merits a further  £100 compensation.
As Lloyds  hasnt said anything to change  my provisional opinion, I think  Miss Gs complaint  
should be upheld  as set out in my provisional view. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to do the 
following:
Pay Miss G £420 in total for the loss of use of her car        
Pay Miss G £100 for distress and inconvenience  (in addition to the £300 it has 
already offered her)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8212973