K820x#14complaint
Mr W2 brings  this complaint on behalf  of his late mothers estate. Mr W2 complains that 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited:
-mis-sold an equity release mortgage to Mr and Mrs W in 2001.  Mr W2 says that he 
firmly believes  the implications of the mortgage  werent explained to his parents. Mr 
W2 thinks the adviser glossed over details  such  as indicative charges to try to 
secure the sale and get his commission.
-An outrageous rate of interest has been charged on this mortgage. Aviva  has more  
recently said that Mr and Mrs W could have switched to a cheaper product during  the 
life of the mortgage, but they werent advised of this and so have been charged  very 
heftily as a result.
Mr W2 would like Aviva to accept  a compromise  and a lower rate of interest to be applied  to 
the closing balance of the mortgage.
background
In March 2001 Mr and Mrs W met with Aviva. They had enquired about an equity release 
loan. The application at the time records Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow around £21,000.
In May 2001  the mortgage completed. Mr and Mrs W werent required to pay any interest 
payments during the term of the mortgage. Instead  the balance  borrowed, plus accumulated 
interest, would  be repaid  in the event  of their death or moving into long term care. The 
proceeds of selling the property were intended to repay the loan in full.
In 2004 Mr W passed  away.  Mrs W continued  to live in the property.
In October  2018 Mr W2 made a complaint to Aviva on behalf  of his mother. Mrs W had 
become worried about  the amount of interest  that was being applied  to the mortgage. While 
she remembered taking out the mortgage, she didnt remember  having the details of the 
charges or potential  amount of money to be paid back explained to her. 
In November 2018 Mrs W passed away. Mr W2 has continued to pursue this complaint on 
behalf of his late mothers estate.
In December 2018 Mr W2 called Aviva to notify  it that Mrs W had passed  away.  In that call 
he asked why hed heard nothing since hed sent his letter  of complaint in October. Mr W2 
was told during this call that the interest  would have been explained to Mr and Mrs W when 
the loan was sold. He was also told the interest  rate applied was in line with the loan 
agreement and that Mr and Mrs W could  have investigated switching the lifetime mortgage  
during the mortgages term.
Aviva issued a final response  to Mr W2s concerns on 22 January  2019, and a further 
response on 19 March  2019, answering some further points raised by Mr W2. 
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint in either of its response letters.  It thought  the proper 
process had been  followed by the adviser  including giving illustrations of what  could happen  
over time assuming different levels of property prices and dependent  on how long they lived 
in the property after taking out the loan. Aviva  also thought the interest charged was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the loan and that it didnt have to tell Mr and Mrs W about  
other loans  they could  have moved onto that had lower rates  of interest.  Aviva  said that Mr 
Ref: DRN88483572and Mrs W were aware from the start that an early  repayment charge (ERC) could be 
applied if they chose to pay the loan off early.
Mr W2 was unhappy with Avivas response  and referred the matter to us. Aviva gave its 
consent for us to look at the sale of the mortgage  in 2001, even though this event happened 
more than six years before the complaint was made.
Our investigators view was that this complaint shouldnt  succeed. He didnt think the 
recommendation made by the adviser  had been  unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs  as 
recorded in the mortgage paperwork. And he was satisfied that the interest rate that applied 
to the mortgage  had clearly been set out on the loan agreement.
Mr W2 disagreed with our investigators findings.  He responded to say, in summary:
-He thought our investigator had made assumptions based  on what may or may not 
have happened. Mr W2s assumptions  are based on more  recent  conversations with 
Mrs W prior to making this complaint;
-No allowance  has been made  for the widespread culture of mis-selling  that was rife 
at the time. Who is to say an eager salesman would not have glossed over the facts 
in order to achieve his commission?
-This sale was made before mortgage regulation governing such loans;
-The illustration document is worthless  as it wasnt signed  by Mr and Mrs W and 
theres no evidence  it was shown to them before the sale was made;
-The solicitor made  sure the legal matters were in place but didnt offer financial 
advice about the suitability of the product sold;
-When prevailing interest rates fell to such  low levels, for Aviva to continue to charge 
8.25% for the full period of the loan is both morally and ethically wrong;
-What is particularly galling is that having  spoken  to Aviva, it admitted  Mr and Mrs W 
could have taken  out a second agreement to pay off the balance  of the first loan at a 
more favourable interest rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to give my sincere condolences to Mr W2 and his brother following their 
mothers passing. Im conscious that this complaint began when Mrs W was still alive in late 
2018. I understand why this complaint matters greatly to Mr W2, considering the 
circumstances surrounding  the complaint and his parents finances in their later years.
Was the mortgage mis-sold in 2001?
Having read all the information available  to us, Im in broad agreement  with our investigators  
view on this first part of the complaint. 
Im sensitive to the fact that Mr W2 has questioned why our investigator made assumptions 
about what might have happened  when  making his findings. I can see why Mr W2s 
frustrated about  this. 
Its impossible  for us now to establish  everything that was discussed between  Mr and Mrs W 
and the adviser  at the time. Im aware that 19 years  have  passed since  the mortgage was 
sold. And when Mrs W became concerned about  the accrual of interest on the loan, and 
Ref: DRN88483573what she remembered of the sale process,  some  18 years  had passed  since  she would have 
met the adviser. Due to the passage of time, it can be difficult in such complaints to be 
certain of exactly what was discussed  and agreed at the time. And the human memory can 
be fallible, especially when recalling  something  that happened  many  years before.
In such instances,  particularly where the parties involved in the sale are no longer able to 
give witness testimonies, we typically look at the records from the time to try to get the best 
impression possible of what was discussed.  However, thats not the end of the matter.  We 
also look at the wider transaction and the specific circumstances of Mr and Mrs W at the 
time of the sale to try to establish if a product was mis-sold.
Id like to reassure Mr W2 that Ive carefully reviewed the documents available  from the time 
of the sale to try to build  up a picture  of what happened at the time of the sale, and since  
then. And Ive used  all this evidence to try to determine whether Aviva mis-sold a mortgage  
to Mr and Mrs W and if the mortgage was clearly  unsuitable  for their needs at the time.  
I understand the arguments Mr W2 makes about concerns around the sale predating  
regulation, and that mis-selling was rife at this time. While mortgage advice and sales didnt 
become regulated until October 2004, there  was a voluntary Mortgage Code that pre-dated 
this. There have also been additional  processes and best practice for the sale of equity  
release mortgages.  When Norwich  Union sold this loan it was a signatory of the Mortgage 
Code, and was considered an industry leader in terms  of equity release products. 
This may give Mr W2 some reassurance.  Regardless of this, Ive looked carefully at all the 
information gathered  in our investigation  to see whether I think  Mr and Mrs W were mis-sold 
this loan.
Mr W2s said he considers Mr W may have been  of limited capacity when the mortgage was 
entered into in 2001. There are records made by the adviser  about  Mr Ws state of health. 
Its clear that he was reliant  on Mrs W for transport for example following recent  health  
issues. But there isnt any suggestion  in the records made at the time by the adviser, or the 
independent solicitor who explained  the agreement Mr and Mrs W were  entering into to 
them, that Mr W was of limited capacity or was unable to enter into this contract due to his 
state of health.  
Ive considered the reasons why Mr and Mrs W reportedly wanted the loan, and what  they 
said they intended to do with the proceeds. One of the main  purposes given in the 
application was to privately  fund Mrs W having  an eye operation.  Mr W2 points out that his 
mother managed to get this operation through the National Health Service  at no cost to her. 
But I dont think theres necessarily anything sinister  to this discrepancy. Mrs W may have 
been exploring options to fund treatment which she clearly considered vital. It seems  to have 
been important  for her and Mr W, as she was relied upon for transportation following Mr Ws 
ill health. Im pleased to hear that Mrs W did manage to get the treatment in a timely way 
without needing  to fund it herself.  But I think the fact Mrs W went on to have the operation 
supports the objectives of the loan at the time it was sold, rather  than it proves  Mr and Mrs 
W were mis-sold the loan.  The advisers recommendation does refer to the fact that Mr and 
Mrs W wanted to raise  money for a few reasons including an eye operation for Mrs W, to 
change their car and to boost their emergency  funds.  
Mr and Mrs Ws income was limited  to their pensions (and a carers  allowance) and there  
was only around  £60 of surplus each month.  I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have been able to meet repayments  each  month on most  other  forms of personal 
Ref: DRN88483574lending. One of the benefits of equity release borrowing is that there  are no repayments of 
interest or capital to be made during the term of the loan, and Mr and Mrs W could release 
money whilst  staying  in their own home. Mr and Mrs W are recorded as having  discussed 
the possibility  of moving to a less expensive  property to release  equity,  but they apparently 
wanted to stay in their own home.  This is another stated objective  of the financing. Im 
satisfied that there was a discussion as to the alternative ways of raising  money, and that 
this product wasnt clearly  unsuitable for their needs at the time.
Aviva took several  steps to try to establish  if Mr and Mrs W had discussed their plans  to take 
out an equity release  mortgage with their relatives. The fact find document  says that the 
adviser must recommend  that the client discusses  this intention with any potential  
beneficiaries before  proceeding  with the application.  It is recorded  on the fact find that Mr 
and Mrs W had discussed their plans with their family who  are supportive of decision to 
release equity.  I also note the initial enquiry had been made  by Mr and Mrs Ws daughter,  
and that they said Avivas  equity release mortgages  had been  recommended  to them.
The process of taking out the mortgage spanned three months,  from the fact find in March  
2001 to completion  in May 2001.  I think if Mr and Mrs W had felt uncertain about  the advice 
theyd been given or had thought  there  might be another way they could borrow this money,  
they could have taken independent financial advice during this time.  They  could also have 
reached out to friends or family to discuss their plans  further  if theyd chosen to. This is 
something for Mr and Mrs W to have chosen  to do, and Im satisfied from the documents  that 
Aviva encouraged them to do so. But it was ultimately Mr and Mrs Ws choice.
the interest rate
Mr W2 has complained that the interest rate applied to the loan throughout the term is 
onerous. The loan was taken out in 2001  on a fixed compound interest  rate of 8.25%. I dont 
think this interest rate appears excessive or out of line with comparable  products offered by 
lenders at that time.  
I think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs W before they entered  into the loan agreement  what  
the interest would be for the loan,  and the entire loan term, although it could change before 
the borrowing  completed. 
Mr and Mrs W went ahead with the loan,  which did then complete at the fixed  rate of 8.25%. 
Ive looked at the mortgage statements since the loan was completed and Im therefore 
satisfied that interest has been applied to the borrowing in line with the terms of the loan 
agreement entered  into by Mr and Mrs W.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W2 has said about his recent  call with Aviva in 
December 2018.  Mr W2 called Aviva to tell it about Mrs Ws passing  and asked what was 
happening about the complaint letter hed sent in October. Ive listened  to this call recording 
with Aviva in December to see what was discussed at that time, and what  Aviva had said 
about other interest rates that may have been  available to Mr and Mrs W.
Mr W2 says he was told by Aviva  that his parents  could have moved to a cheaper  lifetime 
mortgage if theyd  wanted to, but that Aviva didnt have to tell them that less expensive 
lifetime mortgages had become available.
Having listened  to this call recording in December 2018, I can see why Mr W2 was 
disappointed by what he was told in this call. Some of the information  given  by Aviva on the 
Ref: DRN88483575call isnt accurate for Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage sale. For example, the call handler  says that 
Mr and Mrs W would have spoken with an independent financial adviser multiple times 
before talking to Aviva.  That isnt correct  in this case. Mr and Mrs W spoke with an adviser 
working for Norwich Union, and to the best of my knowledge they would  only have discussed 
Norwich Union products.  
I think the call handler  was genuinely trying  to help, and be informative, but this information 
was misleading. I see why it led to Mr W2 questioning further the way the mortgage was sold 
to his parents.
In the call, Mr W2 asks why the rate of interest has remained at the same level even though  
prevailing interest rates had fallen. The call handler says that Mr and Mrs W could have 
switched to another loan on a lower rate although they would have needed  to take financial 
advice about this. 
Ive asked Aviva further questions about what it meant by this. Again, I think  this information 
was misleading.  
The reality  of Mr and Mrs Ws situation  was that they took out a lifetime mortgage  in 2001. 
That mortgage was designed to be at a rate of interest that was fixed for the whole of Mr and 
Mrs Ws lifetime. Such mortgage loans arent designed to be repaid early, or Mr and Mrs W 
would have faced  paying an early repayment charge (ERC) which  could have been  
considerable. Equity release mortgages dont work like other mortgages which require 
monthly payments  of interest or capital. They dont track Bank  of England  base rate, or 
standard variable  rates (SVRs). And equity release mortgage holders dont typically shop 
around to make the most  of interest rates available elsewhere.
Aviva has confirmed it couldnt have switched Mr and Mrs Ws loan onto a better  interest 
rate deal during the term.
Aviva has clarified that Mr and Mrs W could have taken advice from a broker  and refinanced 
or remortgaged their existing lifetime loan by taking out a completely new loan. This would 
have triggered  payment  of an ERC  (which  can be considerable), and other product, 
valuation and advice  fees. 
From my experience of the mortgage  market, Id say this would be an unusual thing for a 
customer to do. The charges  for closing this lifetime product early would typically prohibit 
someone choosing  to exit the agreement before they needed to. And, for Mr and Mrs W, 
they would  receive  their annual statements with the amount  of interest  that was added  to the 
loan each year. But they werent  needing to make an interest payment each month. And so, I 
consider it unlikely that they would have wanted  to take advice about exiting their current 
lifetime mortgage to explore taking out other  potential products offering the same features 
albeit at a lower rate of interest.
While the information  provided by the call handler was misleading,  I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of this complaint. This misinformation was given to Mr W2 acting on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs W after Mrs Ws passing. And Im satisfied that it didnt cause Mrs 
W inconvenience or upset in her last weeks. 
Ref: DRN88483576Im aware how disappointed Mr W2 will be with my decision. However,  Ive looked very 
closely at all the documents surrounding the sale of this mortgage loan. And Ive thought 
carefully about Mr and Mrs Ws situation at the time and what they are recorded to have 
wanted to achieve from the financing. 
From all the evidence and arguments  presented to me, I dont think  it was unreasonable  that 
Aviva sold Mr and Mrs W a lifetime mortgage.  It gave a way for Mr and Mrs W to release  a 
lump sum for the financing objectives stated by Mr and Mrs W at the time. I also think  Aviva  
has applied  interest  to the loan in line with its terms and conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Emma Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8848357