K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont  complete a Section 75 claim for 
them in relation to a timeshare. 
Background
Mr and Mrs M say that between 2001  and 2004 they used  credit  from Clydesdale  Bank to 
purchase a timeshare. Mr and Mrs M say the timeshare was mis-sold and wrote to 
Clydesdale Bank  on 15 June 2018  to raise a claim under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act.
Clydesdale Bank  didnt raise a Section  75 claim as it couldnt find any evidence to show 
Mr and Mrs M had used  credit it provided  to buy their timeshare. Clydesdale  Bank  said it had 
no records of providing Mr and Mrs M with a loan during the period in question.  Clydesdale  
Bank confirmed Mrs M has held a credit  card with it but that was opened  in 2005, after the 
period when the timeshare was purchased. Clydesdale Bank explained it doesnt keep 
information about closed accounts  indefinitely and that Mr and Mrs Ms accounts were 
closed in 2009. Clydesdale Bank doesnt have any records of Mr and Mrs Ms closed 
accounts. 
Mr and Mrs M complained but Clydesdale  Bank  didnt agree it could raise  a Section 75 
claim. Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint  to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. She thought  Clydesdale Bank  was right to decline Mr and Mrs Ms request to 
raise a Section  75 claim as it wasnt possible to establish the necessary relationships.  
Mr and Mrs M asked  to appeal so their complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are upset. Theyve told us about being mis-sold an 
expensive timeshare and I appreciate  they are trying  to recover their losses. But this 
complaint is about  whether Clydesdale Bank was right to refuse  Mr and Mrs Ms request to 
raise a Section  75 claim. 
In order to successfully  claim under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act a specific  set of 
relationships has to be established. There has to be three parties involved. The debtor, the 
creditor and the supplier (DCS) have  to be established before a claim can be raised. 
In this case, we know the debtors were Mr and Mrs M. And we know  the supplier was the 
timeshare operator.  But we havent  been  able to show whether Clydesdale  Bank acted  as 
the creditor. 
Clydesdale Bank  says its records are very limited but it can see Mr and Mrs M had a current 
account during  the period  in question. The account was later closed in 2009. Unfortunately, 
due to the passage of time, there arent  any records of the payments  Mr and Mrs M made 
from their current  account. I think its also reasonable to note that Section 75 isnt generally 
applicable to current accounts. So whilst I can see Mr and Mrs M had a current  account,  we 
Ref: DRN89781162dont have evidence  of the movements  and its very unlikely any payments they may have 
made from it would  be covered under  a Section 75 claim. 
Clydesdale Bank  says it has no record of providing  Mr and Mrs M with a loan during this 
period either. Clydesdale Bank has found  that Mrs M had a credit card from 2005 to 2009  
and provided copies of the monthly statements. But the credit card was opened after the 
period when Mr and Mrs M have told us they bought the timeshare. And Ive looked at all the 
statements but havent seen any payments for a timeshare. 
As theres  no evidence  to show  Mr and Mrs M had used credit  provided by Clydesdale Bank  
to purchase the timeshare  Im satisfied its decision to decline their request to raise a 
Section 75 claim was fair. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I havent found 
anything to show Clydesdale  Bank  has made a mistake or treated them  unfairly. As a result, 
Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8978116