K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Miss J was given six loans by Mr Lender between May 2013 and June 2016. Loan 6 remains  
outstanding and a summary  of her borrowing is as follows:
Loan
Date Taken Date Repaid
Instalments
Amount Repayment
Deferral
1 09/05/2013 19/05/2014 2 £400.00 £540.00 6
2 18/01/2016 14/06/2016 6 £300.00 £150.80  
3 14/06/2016 12/11/2016 6 £450.00 £162.00  
4 16/11/2016 31/03/2017 6 £500.00 £259.33  
5 13/03/2018 11/06/2018 3 £250.00 £125.89 2
6 11/06/2018 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £322.76
Miss Js complaint has been  looked at by one of our adjudicators. They  didnt think 
Mr Lender had been wrong  to give loans 2 to 5 to Miss J. But they did think Mr Lender 
shouldnt have agreed to lend loan 6. Or allow Miss J to defer  repayment  of loan 1 as many  
times as it did. This was because it was apparent from the pattern of Miss Js borrowing that 
she was unlikely to sustainably repay  the amounts borrowed. It was the adjudicators opinion 
that    Mr  Lender should refund any charges and interest Miss J paid when she deferred  
repaying loan 1 on the last two occasions. The adjudicator also thought Miss Js complaint 
about loan 6 should be upheld. 
Mr Lender disagreed and said the pattern indicated Miss J was borrowing as and when  she 
needed funds.  It also explained it carried out checks on Miss J each time she applied for a 
loan. These  checks included affordability checks  and reviewing information from credit  
reports. But it did agree  to refund  the interest  and charges Miss J incurred  on the final two 
deferrals of loan 1.
As Mr Lender didnt fully agree with the adjudicators view, it asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So, the complaint it was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss J could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could consider several  
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN86060482But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss J could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
There were significant  breaks in Miss Js borrowing from Mr Lender. There  was a gap of 
nearly 20 months between loans  1 and 2. And there was a further gap of around a year 
between loans 4 and 5. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view these gaps as 
an indication  that Miss Js finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were 
that had caused her to take out the loans.  So, I will look at Miss Js borrowing in three 
separate lending chains.  
The first chain was made up of loans 1, the second  chain was made  up of loans 2 to 4 and 
the third chain was loans  5 and 6. 
Our first adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed  to do more  before it lent Miss J loans 2 to 
5. Miss J hasnt disagreed  with either  of the adjudicators  findings,  so I wont be making any 
further findings on these loans because  they no longer appear to be in dispute. But Ive kept 
these loans in mind when thinking  about the overall  borrowing  relationship between Miss J 
and Mr Lender. 
As it appears everyone  agrees Mr Lender  should refund the interest  and charges incurred on 
the last two deferrals on Loan 1, all I am left to look at whether  Mr Lender was right to lend 
Miss J loan 6. 
Ref: DRN86060483Having carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint, Im partly  upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Lender says it carried out checks before it lent loan 6 to Miss J and the results of these 
checks didnt raise  any concerns. But as this loan was taken out on the same day as Miss J 
repaid loan 5, and was for such a large  amount, I think Mr Lender should have been looking 
to build a clearer  picture  about Miss Js finances before lending  to her again.  I say this 
because Miss J had deferred  repaying  loan 5  which was for a much lesser amount  twice 
before repaying  it. She wouldve have incurred interest and admin costs when she deferred 
 which  would have  added to her indebtedness to Mr Lender.  
Miss J was borrowing a much larger amount for loan 6 as she did for loan 5, so I think it 
wouldve been reasonable to assume  that she would also struggle to repay this amount  
especially as she was taking it over 12 months  so extending her indebtedness. Looking at 
the information Ive been given, I can see that Miss J has defaulted  on her repayments for 
this loan and its been passed  to a third party.  In my view this further proves  that the loan 
wasnt appropriate. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Miss J loan 6.
If Mr Lender have sold the outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if Mr Lender 
are able to do so and then take the following  steps.  If Mr Lender are not able to buy the 
debts back, then Mr Lender  should  liaise with the new debt owner  to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) Mr Lender  should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss J towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mr Lender have  already  refunded.
B) Mr Lender  should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made  by 
Miss J which  were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss J originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Miss J having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple  interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender  should  then refund the amounts calculated  in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss J. Mr Lender  
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  Mr Lender have already written-
off.
Ref: DRN86060484E) Mr Lender  should remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Js credit file in 
relation to loan 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct  tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should give 
Miss J a certificate showing  how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask for one.
If after doing the above Miss J still has an outstanding balance due on loan 6 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Mr Lender  of its obligation to treat Miss J fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Js complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8606048