K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz  Finance, wasnt  
of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr P under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Finance that he electronically signed in June 2018.  Mr P had an issue  with the car in 
March 2019 and the dealer replaced  a faulty  injector  but a connector  was also required and 
that wasnt available.  Mr P was provided with a courtesy car.
He complained to this service and the investigator recommended that this complaint should 
be upheld. He wasnt persuaded that the car was of satisfactory quality and said that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance should accept  Mr Ps request to reject it. He recommended that it 
should: unwind the agreement and collect the car; refund 50% of the payments received on 
the agreement  since the car had been  with the dealer; and pay him £250 compensation for 
the loss of enjoyment and inconvenience that hes been caused.
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that it agrees with the investigators recommendation to take 
Mr P out of his car and to provide him with £250   but, given that he was kept mobile in a 
like-for-like car, it considers a refund of 50% of his payments since  March  to be excessive. It 
says that hes had fair usage of a car and has paid for it through  his rentals so it offers 10% 
of those payments  in acknowledgement that he didnt have use of his own car. 
The investigator explained the reasons that he considered a refund of 50% of Mr Ps monthly 
payments since March to be fair and reasonable but Mercedes-Benz  Finance hasnt 
responded any further. Mr P says that he should receive a refund of all of his payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted the investigators recommendation that it should  end 
the agreement, collect  the car from Mr P and pay him compensation of £250  so Im not 
going to consider those issues any further  in this decision. The investigator recommended 
that Mercedes-Benz Finance  should  refund 50% of the payments that it received on the 
agreement since the car has been  with the dealer  - but it says that Mr P was provided with a 
like-for-like replacement car so its offered a 10% refund. 
Mr P entered into an agreement with Mercedes-Benz Finance  for it to provide him with the 
car specified in the agreement and he agreed  to make 48 monthly payments of £468.85 and 
an optional purchase  payment  of £12,200  for that car. He was able to use the car until March  
2019 but, since then, I understand  that the car has been with the dealer and he hasnt been  
able to use it. He has been provided with a courtesy  car but he says that the car that was 
supplied under the agreement has a diesel engine and the courtesy car has a petrol engine 
so is more expensive  to use. The car that was supplied  to him under the agreement also had 
a specified branding that was important  to Mr P  but the courtesy car does not.
Ref: DRN83285142I agree  with the investigator that a refund of 50% of his monthly payments since  March 2019 
would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances.  I consider that its fair and reasonable 
for it to keep the payments  that he made for the period prior to that as payment for the use 
that he had from the car and that it can keep the other  50% of his payments since than as 
payment for the use that hes had from the courtesy car. Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require Mercedes-Benz to refund to Mr P more of his payments 
than that. 
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Mercedes-Benz Finance to: end the 
agreement and collect the car; refund  to Mr P 50% of the monthly  payments  that hes made  
under the agreement since March 2019  when the car was returned to the dealer; and pay 
him £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  caused. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected  both at no 
cost to Mr P.
2.Refund to Mr P 50% of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement 
since March 2019 when the car was returned  to the dealer.
3.Pay £250 to Mr P to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8328514