K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs H say National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need  to tell Mr and 
Mrs H about the commission it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because NatWest  has provided  certain pieces of 
paperwork from the time of the sale. The first of these is Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  
application. Looking  at this I can see that Mr and Mrs H were asked if they wanted PPI 
and there is a Yes  recorded against the question. It also records  the benefit amount of 
£150 here.
Ref: DRN88959062In addition to this, NatWest has also provided a quotation for PPI dated prior to the policy 
starting. And this details  the benefit  amount, the cost and that Mr H was the prospective 
policyholder. Ive also seen a copy of the direct  debit mandate  Mr H signed to allow the 
PPI premiums to be taken from Mr and Mrs Hs bank account  as well as Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage offer letter, which also confirms the policy details.
So taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs H chose to take out PPI and they 
likely did so without undue pressure.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H say they were unaware  of PPI. But not only does the above 
show this cant be the case, NatWest has also provided information to show  Mr H made  
several successful claims on the policy from 2005  onwards totaling around £6,500. So it 
cant be the case that Mr and Mrs H didnt know theyd taken out PPI.
Both Mr and Mrs H and NatWest agree that it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H 
- so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable  for them. But it did have  to 
give Mr and Mrs H enough clear and timely  information so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
While  Im satisfied  Mr and Mrs H understood the cost and the benefit of the policy, I 
accept its possible the overall  information  NatWest gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI  
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  For example  theres  not enough evidence to show 
that NatWest clearly highlighted the significant  exclusions  and limitations of cover.
But Ive found  that Mr and Mrs H chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H  for example 
Mr H as the policyholder  was employed and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt  too dissimilar  to what  Mr and 
Mrs H reasonably thought  they were buying from the information they were given. There 
were also no additional  restrictions  on cover for mental health  or back  problems. Mr and 
Mrs H understood the cost, but, in any event  it looks like it was affordable  so it seems 
like the policy would  have  been useful for them if something went wrong. And it seems  
this was the case because Mr H made several  successful claims on the policy  as I said 
above.
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. 
The policy was sufficiently  close to what they thought they were getting and I think  the policy  
could provide a useful  benefit in a difficult  time, given their circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  NatWest  
should have disclosed  the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN88959063But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Hs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest  didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt  need  to do pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs H should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  NatWest failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has worked  this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Hs case  
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN88959064-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the commission.  So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated 
Mr and Mrs H unfairly.  
This means  NatWest doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8895906