K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs estate complains about the rejection of a claim by Legal & General Insurance 
Limited. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
After Mrs Cs death her house was unoccupied.  Whilst it was unoccupied a pipe broke,
damage was caused, and a claim made  under a buildings  policy  underwritten  by Legal &
General. They considered  the claim but rejected  it, on the grounds that the terms allowing
cover to continue for an unoccupied property werent followed. The estate complained to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but did not uphold the complaint. The estate
has therefore asked  for an ombudsmans review  of the case.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current  view is that I cant  uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy in question  can continue to cover a house whilst it is unoccupied, but there are
conditions surrounding  this. These  include the heating system  being on or fully drained, and
the building  being inspected every  14 days with a record  kept of these  inspections.  Legal &
General werent  convinced the conditions had been  met, and nor was our adjudicator.
When the case was handed to me I asked for clarification over a number of issues,  and
some more evidence  has been provided. But, Im afraid I dont consider it persuasive
enough for me to ask the insurer to reconsider the claim.  I do accept the heating was on, but
I am not convinced about the frequency of inspections.
Two relatives involved here visited the house, but due to distance this doesnt seem often
enough. One relative was too far away for the frequency required.  The other states they did
visit but we have been given very little proof  of this. A suggested diary hasnt been  produced,
and its been confirmed doesnt  exist.  And whilst some proof of being in the area has been
provided, this isnt that close to the house,  and doesnt prove  the necessary frequency of
visits.
Neighbours have been mentioned but again  the evidence  here is poor. I have one statement
from a neighbour  but it only states  regular  visits, with no mention of frequency.  It does
mention collecting  up junk mail and disposing of that, but Im not sure that counts as
inspecting the house. Particularly as this would generally mean checking heating and water
systems, and that the roof and windows were  sound, just collecting junk main  is probably
insufficient.
So, whilst I do think some attempts were made I dont think  the policy terms can be shown to
have been complied with.
My current  view is that based on the evidence I have I cant ask Legal & General to
reconsider the claim.
Ref: DRN86899952Since my provisional decision Legal & General have  nothing  additional  to say. The estates 
representatives have  said that the complaint  is one of mis-selling,  and that my provisional 
decision is based on a previous policy. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I need to address  the actual complaint here first. Although I note what the 
representatives say now I dont think that is a complete picture of this cases history. 
We were first approached  in May 2018 and our records indicate that in that call the 
representatives wanted the claim paid on the basis Legal & General took on the risk knowing 
about the lack of occupancy. There is also a letter of complaint to Legal & General dated 26 
March 2018 from the representative that states  the claim should  be paid as Legal  & General 
knew about the lack of occupancy. Suggesting a claim should be paid is different from 
asking for compensation for a mis-sale.  
The relevant  adjudicator  wrote their view letter to the representatives  in September  2018  and 
this clearly deals with the claim  rejection  rather than a pure mis-selling  complaint. It also 
clarifies that we are looking at the claim under the previous policy  wording, as agreed by 
Legal & General, so I wouldnt accept that my provisional decision is in error in looking at this 
previous wording. 
The representatives response to the view letter concentrates mainly on what  needs  to be 
done to satisfy the relevant cover  conditions in this previous  policy. It doesnt ask us to 
ignore that in favour of a mis-sale,  and if the conditions were met the claim would be paid 
under the policy  so I think any mis-sale  would fall away  then anyway.  It isnt usually possible 
to declare a policy  mis-sold but also ask an insurer to meet  a claim under  it. 
I was first allocated the case in January  2019  and felt I needed to ask the representatives 
more questions about fulfilling the conditions of the previous policy,  to see if I could ask 
Legal & General to pay the claim.  That didnt eventually prove possible but the 
representatives were  trying to provide that information on the basis  of the claim being paid, 
rather than pressing us to look at a mis-sale. 
With all that in mind I dont agree this has been  only a mis-sale issue.  That may have been 
more relevant if Legal & General hadnt agreed  we could consider this under the previous 
policy terms. And for the sake of clarity if they hadnt agreed that I would have ordered them 
to do so. So, whilst it could be argued  the newer policy was mis-sold that is irrelevant as we 
have looked at this under the previous  wording. 
Under that previous wording this claim  could have been paid had the policy conditions been  
adhered to. As the representatives have been fairly adamant they did meet  those conditions  
I dont think this could  be a mis-sale under  the previous wording. So it then becomes a claim 
dispute and I have to decide  if I have proof that the policy conditions  were fulfilled. Or at 
least enough proof for me to ask Legal  & General to pay the claim. The fact I havent  been 
persuaded on that doesnt turn this back to a mis-sale dispute. 
I think the previous  policy was such that it would have provided the cover  the representatives 
sought had they fulfilled  the policy conditions, so that wasnt mis-sold and those are the 
Ref: DRN86899953conditions we are looking  at. But, unfortunately, I still dont think  the representatives have 
provided enough proof that those conditions  were met, so Im not asking Legal & General  to 
pay the claim. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Legal & General  Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8689995