K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with Lloyds Bank  PLCs  response to their complaint about fraud. 
They fell victim to a scam and lost £1,420.41 as a result.  The bank has declined  to refund it.
background
Mr and Mrs W were contacted by a fraudster who pretended to be calling from Lloyds.  
The fraudster said their account was being used by fraudsters and that a Direct  Debit  had 
been set up without their authority.
Mr and Mrs W were told they needed to move their money into a new account  in order to 
protect it. They were given account  details by the fraudster  and went on to transfer 
£1,420.41, using online banking, while the fraudster  talked  them  through the process.
Mr and Mrs W realised something was wrong later that day when they tried to get back  in 
touch with the fraudster,  using  contact  details hed given them. They  couldnt  get through  
and the line appeared  disconnected. So they contacted Lloyds on a genuine number and the 
scam was revealed.
Mr and Mrs W were told on the call that the investigation could take anywhere from 48 hours  
to 20 days. But then, on the same  call, they were told the bank wouldnt be able to refund 
their money. Mr and Mrs W raised  a complaint with Lloyds but its answer remained 
unchanged. As they were  unhappy with the response Mr and Mrs W brought  their complaint  
to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She could  see Mr and Mrs W had properly authorised the payment and there hadnt been 
anything particularly unusual about it that ought to have caused the bank concern. And she 
could see the bank had taken appropriate  steps  to try and recover the funds from the 
recipient account.
Im now reviewing the case as Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the outcome put forward  by 
the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs W. Having money stolen in this way is a 
particularly distressing crime. I can see from the correspondence weve had from Mr and 
Mrs W that theyve  been  caused  a great deal of upset  by this incident.
But having  thought very carefully  about  Lloyds actions, I think  it acted fairly and reasonably  
in allowing the money to leave Mr and Mrs Ws account. I also dont find it could have done 
any more than it did to try and recover the money.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
Ref: DRN80048892time.
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I do
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for them, but I cant  fairly say Lloyds should 
reimburse them the £1,420.41 lost to the fraudsters. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
regulated firms  like Bank of Scotland are also required  to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard  
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6);
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its
dealings with Mr and Mrs W, when the transfer was made to a fraudster and when they
reported the fraud, or whether it should have done  more than it did.
Theres no question as to whether the transaction was properly authorised  by Mr and Mrs W. 
Theyve confirmed they set up and executed the payment instruction and so they have 
authorised the money to leave their account. That remains true even when we consider they 
did so under false pretences, at the instruction of a fraudster. That they believed they were 
Ref: DRN80048893protecting their money doesnt change things here. And so the bank  was obliged to act on 
the instruction  it was given. 
There are times when Id expect a bank to receive  an instruction and to consider that 
something might be wrong. That might  be when a transaction is unusually large for a 
customer, for example. Should a bank have sufficient concern that its customer  might be at 
risk of financial  harm a bank can intervene  and make enquiries before completing a 
transaction. But, here, I dont find there  was enough going on to now say the bank ought to 
have prevented the payment from going  ahead.
The money Mr and Mrs W have lost is not an insignificant sum. But it wasnt so large  and 
unusual that the bank  ought to have suspected something was wrong,  even if they hadnt 
made payments similar in size and nature  themselves.  The sum is, generally speaking,  not 
an unusual amount for a customer to send by way of bank transfer. And I cant see there  
was anything else about the circumstances  that make me believe the bank ought to have 
acted differently to how it did and I dont find it should now refund the loss.
Ive then considered  whether the bank did all it could once it knew  about the scam. Id expect 
to see attempts to recover the money and such attempts made quickly. Funds  might  be 
recovered if theyre still in the recipient account  when such  a scam is reported.  
Ive seen evidence  which satisfies  me Mr and Mrs Ws money  had already been  removed 
from the recipient  account by the time they notified  Lloyds. It left the account  just minutes 
after being  received. And so it wasnt able to recover  the majority of the money. A little over 
£20 remained,  which has been returned  to Mr and Mrs W. The bank did all it could in respect 
of pursuing the money.
I understand Mr and Mrs W had some concerns over how quickly the bank had told them it 
wouldnt be able to refund  them. That was following the initial advice that it could take 
between 48 hours  and 20 days to get an answer. Lloyds were able to give an answer about 
the refund  so quickly because they had the information that the money had been withdrawn. 
It would have been the case  from the outset that Mr and Mrs W werent going to be refunded 
the money lost because  they authorised the payment.  It was only if funds remained in the 
recipient account  that they might  have had anything back. As Lloyds was able to see that the 
money had already gone when the scam  was reported, it was able to explain the outcome to 
Mr and Mrs W quickly. I dont find it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2021.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8004889