K822xcomplaint
Mr J is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney  Financial  Services 
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr J to invest in loan notes issued by an 
overseas property developer, Dolphin Capital. 
Mr Js complaint is made, on his behalf,  by his representative, Money and Me Claims 
Limited. 
background 
Mr J was put in touch with AFFS towards the end of 2013 to discuss his pension 
arrangements. An adviser  from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  AFFS 
advised Mr J to transfer his existing pension  plan to a SIPP. This was so he could then 
invest in Dolphin, an unregulated investment. 
I understand the transfer value of Mr Js existing  pension  was just over £35,500.  It was this 
amount that was transferred to the SIPP. Around £30,000 of this was then invested in 
Dolphin. But it seems that this investment is now illiquid. Mr J is worried that hes lost his 
money. 
So in June  2016 he complained, via his representative, to AFFS about the advice hed 
received. In brief, Mr J said: the advice was unsuitable; his attitude  to risk had been 
misrepresented; and, AFFS hadnt  followed  the relevant rules and regulations.  Mr J wants  
compensation for the money  he says hes lost. 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said it had warned Mr J about the risks 
involved with this investment but he still chose to go ahead with it. This meant AFFS wasnt 
to blame for any loss Mr J might  have suffered. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this response. So he brought the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said AFFS  had looked  to restrict its advice  to the opening  of the SIPP, but the 
regulator had made  it clear that ignoring the suitability of the proposed investment  wasnt 
fair. The adjudicator  said AFFS knew the investment wasnt  suitable. So the advice for Mr J 
to transfer his pension plan to the SIPP also must have been unsuitable. The adjudicator  
then set out how he thought AFFS needed  to put things right. 
AFFS didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Via its representative, AFFS said the Dolphin 
loan Mr J actually invested  in was over a term of five years.  This was different to the three 
year term that the due diligence reported  on. AFFS said it couldnt be held liable for an 
investment in a loan with an unknown term and interest rate. 
As AFFS  didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 03 May 2019. In it, I explained  Id considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  to uphold this complaint. But I 
thought Mr J should be compensated in a slightly  different  way to that set out by our 
Ref: DRN87516572adjudicator. Ive detailed that below. I also went on to explain why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  
I said that Both AFFS and Mr J, via their various representatives, had made numerous points 
to support their respective  positions. I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in 
far less detail and in my own words. I pointed out that I wasnt  going to respond  to every 
single point made by all the parties  involved.  No discourtesy was intended  by this. Instead, 
Id focussed on what I thought was the key issue  here: was AFFSs advice to Mr J to transfer  
his existing pension  to a SIPP suitable? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If there was something  I hadnt mentioned, it wasnt  because Id ignored it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I then dealt with the issue  of our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative for 
AFFS argued that the Dolphin  loan wasnt either  a specified investment  or a designated 
investment as set out in the relevant regulations.  This meant  the advice to invest  in Dolphin 
wasnt an activity covered by our service. 
I explained that wasnt the activity  Im looking at. Im looking at the advice to Mr J to open a 
SIPP. That is a regulated activity. It didnt matter  whether or not the Dolphin loan was a 
specified or designated investment. 
I went on to say that the rules that AFFS  had to follow are set out in the regulators 
handbook. The advice given to Mr J needed  to take into account the relevant rules, 
irrespective of whether  the Dolphin loan was or wasnt a regulated product. The regulations  
required the advice  given to Mr J to be suitable.  To do that, AFFS had to get enough 
information about Mr Js circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find that was signed by Mr J in November 2013. This recorded his 
personal circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included. For instance, it didnt include 
Mr Js outgoings, whether he was a mortgage payer, or if he had any assets, savings  or 
investments other than his existing pension plan.  The fact find did state that the pension  
benefits of Mr Js existing  plan were an insignificant part of his overall  financial wealth. But 
there was no detail at all to explain how this statement  was arrived at. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment returns  will fluctuate according to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
The following  was also ticked:
I am an infrequent investor. However,  I have a reasonable working  knowledge and 
understanding of investment markets and the relationship between risk and reward  of those  
markets. 
Ref: DRN87516573But there was no detail on how Mr Js attitude to risk was assessed.  There was nothing in 
the available  evidence to show he had anything other than a limited  knowledge  of 
investments. Mr J certainly didnt seem  to have invested in high risk products before. Other 
than his existing  pension, there  was no indication he had any other investments at all. On 
balance, I was satisfied  it was unlikely he had an adventurous  attitude  to risk. 
Also, the pension  fund Mr J had built up was relatively small. As Id already said,  the fact find 
didnt record that he had any other  pension  plans. So I didnt  think  Mr J should have been 
advised to put his existing  fund at significant risk. While he still had some time to increase 
his pension provision, there was no evidence to show  AFFS discussed this with him. 
The fact find was also intended to list Mr Js pension priorities. Seven headings were listed. 
These were  meant to be ranked in order of importance from one to seven, with one being 
the most  important and seven the least. A different  number should have been  given to each 
priority heading. 
But this section wasnt completed correctly. For example, none of the headings was ranked 
as being the most important to Mr J. Instead,  three  were ranked with a two, with the 
remaining headings being  ranked at various  lower  degrees of importance. With the 
discrepancies in this section, I was satisfied it didnt provide  a meaningful  record of Mr Js 
priorities. 
In a section which asked if Mr J was intending to invest  in an unregulated or alternative 
investment, the answer Dolphin Capital was given. This section  went  on to say that Mr J 
wanted to be in control, and have a choice to invest in different  funds.  
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  I assumed this was provided to Mr J after the 
fact find was completed. The copy  Id seen wasnt dated. It said Mr J liked the control that a 
SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active role in choosing what he deemed 
were suitable investments  rather than the traditional funds in his existing plan.  
The report  went on to say that Mr J wasnt happy with the performance and growth of his 
current pension plan.  But this was at odds with the fact find. One question  asked how happy 
Mr J was with the performance  of his existing plan. On a scale  of one to five, with one being  
not at all happy, and five being very happy,  a neutral answer of three was recorded. This 
indicated to me that Mr J had no strong  feeling  either way about how his existing plan was 
doing. 
The financial  planning  report stated Mr J had an adventurous attitude to risk. The investment 
strategy section stated he sought advice from AFFS about the intention of investing in 
commercial property, Dolphin in particular. It said Mr J hadnt sought advice about the 
suitability of this investment.  
But the report also went on to consider  Dolphin. It said AFFS had done some  due diligence 
to establish its merits  or disadvantages.  It listed some of the risks involved. This included 
investing in a single undertaking or having  one investment as a large part of Mr Js pension  
assets bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Js fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But the report didnt  make any recommendation of alternative  
investments that could  be used. 
Ref: DRN87516574I said that while dealing  with this complaint, I was very aware  that the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority,  and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority,  had issued alerts  
about advising on pension  transfers. These dealt with transfers to invest pension funds into 
unregulated products through  a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  
some months before the advice given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. 
These alerts didnt change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead,  they simply re-stated 
the principles that were  already in place when AFFS advised Mr J. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating. 
I was satisfied it wasnt possible for AFFS to advise  Mr J on the suitability of the SIPP 
without also considering how he planned to invest. It was very clear  to me that AFFS knew  
all along that Mr J intended to invest in Dolphin. With this in mind, I didnt think  it was 
suitable to advise Mr J to transfer his existing pension into a SIPP  to allow  him to make this 
investment. 
Dolphin was an unregulated investment. It was a company based in Germany.  It invested  in 
converting and refurbishing listed buildings in Germany for residential use. This was a very 
specialised, non-mainstream type of investment. I thought it was also a high risk investment. 
The available evidence didnt show me that Mr J was fully aware of the risks involved in 
investing in Dolphin.  I was satisfied it wasnt suitable  for him  and thats what  AFFS should 
have told him. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also didnt think transferring Mr Js existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. The financial planning report included a comparison 
between Mr Js existing pension and the proposed SIPP investment. This showed  what his 
pension fund might  be at age 55. But the comparison  used different rates of growth for the 
two plans. For the existing plan, they were 4.5% and 8.55%. But for the proposed 
investment, growth  rates of 5%, 7% and 9% were  used. 
It wasnt clear  to me why different growth  rates were used. But the results showed that if 
Mr Js existing plan grew  at 4.55% it would give a bigger fund than if the proposed  
investment grew at either 5% or 7%. The 8.55% growth rate of the existing  fund also 
produced a significantly larger resulting fund than the 9% rate of the proposed investment. It 
seemed clear that Mr J could expect his pension to grow more if he left it where it was. 
AFFS said it did set out some risks of investing in Dolphin  in the suitability report. These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk. 
The loan is for a fixed term of three years and the investor  will receive a fixed rate of 
Ref: DRN87516575interest .The interest will be paid twice a year on a pro rata basis.  The loan is 
secured on the property  held by Dolphin (or a subsidiary SPV established for a 
specific project). 
As this is a loan to a company, the company could default  on the loan, particularly in 
the circumstances listed below however the loan does have first legal charge on the 
specific property which may limit the potential loss. You should be aware, however 
that all of your investment  is potentially at risk.
The German government may remove the tax break incentive.
If there  is a major fall in German property prices,  this may make  sales to German 
investors difficult. 
The collapse of the Euro currency could create  a recession in Germany  or at least 
stimulate greater caution and impact on current bank lending practices. This might  
create a knock on effect in relation  to the loans that are currently  being made 
available to German property buyers by the German banks.  
As Id said above,  the report went on to say: I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I didnt think this went far enough. AFFS knew  Mr J intended to do 
just that. He planned to invest his pension into one asset class  Dolphin. AFFS shouldnt 
have recommended that Mr J open the SIPP to facilitate  the Dolphin investment. 
AFFS had told us that Mr J invested  in a five year loan note with Dolphin. It said its advice 
was based on the understanding he was investing  in a three year loan note. But I didnt think  
this was material to the outcome of this complaint.  AFFS knew  Mr J wanted  to invest in 
Dolphin. The risks were  similar whether the term of the loan note was three  or five years.  If 
AFFS had correctly advised Mr J not to open  the SIPP, he wouldnt have invested in Dolphin 
in the first place. 
In summary,  I thought  the Dolphin investment was high risk. It wasnt regulated  and the 
investment was potentially illiquid.  It was unsuitable  for Mr J. I was satisfied that suitable  
advice would have  been not to open  a SIPP and not to invest  in Dolphin. If that advice had 
been given, I didnt see any reason why Mr J would have transferred his existing pension.  
I then set out how I thought Mr J should be compensated.  
fair compensation
I said my aim is to put Mr J into the position  he would likely now be in had he been given 
suitable advice.  I thought  if Mr J had been  given suitable advice, he would have kept his 
previous pension. 
I said AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mr Js previous pension  
plan, assuming it hadnt been transferred. The current transfer  value of the SIPP 
investments, including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the 
current notional value  of Mr Js previous pension plan. 
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Js pension plan to increase  its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
Ref: DRN87516576the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
Its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation  into Mr Js pension plan. If thats 
the case, it should pay the amount direct to him. But if it had been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income  when Mr J takes the benefits. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Js marginal rate of tax in retirement.  I 
think hes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mr J would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Since the Dolphin investment is now illiquid   it cant readily  be sold on the open market  its 
value should be treated  as "nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS to 
Mr J. AFFS can then arrange  to take ownership  of the Dolphin investment. If thats not 
possible, then Mr J can sign an undertaking that he will pay AFFS any future disbursements 
he may get from the Dolphin  investment.  That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP.  AFFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. 
Its very likely Mr J will have to maintain the SIPP for a period of time as the Dolphin 
investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP from being closed. If AFFS is unable to buy 
the Dolphin  investment  from the SIPP provider, it should pay Mr J five years worth of SIPP  
fees to compensate him for these costs. 
In addition, AFFS should Pay Mr J £300  for the disruption caused to his retirement  planning. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple  
format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr J how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
I then gave all parties  two weeks to raise  any further  points if they wished to do so. Mr Js 
representative confirmed  it received  my provisional decision. It didnt raise any further points.  
No response at all was received from the representative for AFFS. 
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as no additional 
points have been raised, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings  and 
decision. 
Ref: DRN87516577my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr J as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8751657