K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Covea Insurance plc investigated an incident which  led to a 
claim he made on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr W was involved  in an incident and made  a claim on his Covea policy. Hes unhappy that 
Covea didnt contact  a witness he notified  it of and by the time it did do so the witness  had 
passed away. He thinks Covea didnt conduct  a through investigation  and that the witness 
evidence mayve resulted  in it changing its view that he was liable. 
Covea said in its final response that it had reviewed the circumstances of the incident and it 
still believes  this to be a fault accident  on Mr Ws part. There  was a delay in it dealing  with 
the manual claim  form submitted. That noted  a witness  who was also mentioned for a 
second time in a subsequent letter from Mr W. It apologised that the witness wasnt 
approached for about five months  and offered, and paid, £100  compensation to Mr W for 
this.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said Covea took a lot longer than 
expected to contact  the witness and couldve done  things differently. But its unlikely the 
witness statement wouldve made  a difference in the outcome of Coveas investigation  as 
Mr W was reversing from a car parking space. The £100 compensation offered by Covea for 
the delay in contacting  the witness is fair and he wont ask it to do any more.
Mr W remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. Amongst other things he 
says the witness  couldve  provided information about the speed the other driver arrived on 
the scene. He says its questionable that the other  party  was stationary.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether Covea 
has conducted a reasonable  investigation  into a claim, when  making its own decision on 
liability.
Under the terms of the policy Coveas entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It 
also doesnt need Mr Ws approval of any decision to admit liability, settle  a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. 
I think Covea initially investigated  matters reasonably. The description supplied  detailed that 
Mr W had reversed from a parked position  into a stationary car. Based on this it concluded 
that Mr W was to blame. That seems reasonable as the facts  speak for themselves.
It wouldve  been ideal if Covea had also at that time contacted  the witness  Mr W had notified 
it of. And its unfortunate that it delayed doing  so by a few months by which  time the witness  
Ref: DRN83189202had passed away.  But given what had reportedly happened I dont think  the witness 
wouldve likely established that Mr W wasnt to blame. 
Mr W may disagree  with Coveas interpretation  of the evidence and decision to apportion  
liability as it did, but I dont think it failed to comply  with the policy terms or exercised its 
discretion unfairly  or unreasonably when deciding to settle the case  on the available 
evidence its done.
Covea couldve clearly  handled contacting the witness more promptly and better. And its 
offered to pay Mr W £100 compensation for this. Taking everything into account,  including 
the level of awards  we make, I think  this is fair. And I dont think  I can reasonably  now 
require Covea to do or pay anything more.
I recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling and frustration. But overall I dont see a compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case. I simply leave it to Mr W to decide, if 
he hasnt done  so already, if he wants to accept Coveas offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8318920