K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr J complains that Mortgage  Express acted unfairly  and unreasonably in 
dealing with his mortgage after his death  and the position  it left his widow. It wants  matters  
put right.
background
Mr J took out an interest only mortgage in his sole name in 2006  when he was terminally  ill. 
He died shortly afterwards and Mrs J, his widow, paid the mortgage each month  ever since.  
Mortgage Express asked  for the situation to be sorted out immediately, but agreed if the 
mortgage payments  continued to be paid by Mrs J, she could stay.  But it twice  asked  for the 
mortgage to be repaid  in full in 2012  and 2017. 
Mrs J complained as she was worried shed be asked to pay the mortgage in full again and 
was concerned. Mortgage Express  response was that it had been dealing  with Mrs J as the 
executor of Mr Js estate and the mortgage was due for full repayment on his death. It 
accepted that it hadnt made  this clear enough and was committed  to finding a solution, but 
no longer offered mortgages. Mortgage Express later agreed to let Mrs J stay in the property 
if she paid the monthly  payments but warned the full sum would be due for payment when  
the mortgage ended as only the interest  was being  paid.
The estate  of Mr J complained to us. The first investigator explained that we could only look 
at events since April 2012 and looked  at the issue of Mortgage  Express asking Mrs J to 
repay the mortgage in full twice. He said as the mortgage had been in Mr Js sole name  and 
he had died, legally it was entitled to do so. The first investigator said the decision to let 
Mrs J stay in the property if she paid the mortgage  as years had passed with no action taken 
by Mortgage Express was fair and reasonable. He added that more could be done to help 
Mrs J understand what would happen when  the mortgage ended and suggested the parties 
discussed the matter further.
A second investigator reviewed the complaint after a linked complaint had been dealt with 
and the property had been  sold. Her view was that Mortgage Express  hadnt  properly 
explained the true situation  to Mrs J. Mrs J had believed that because she had the grant  of 
probate for Mr Js estate, the mortgage had been  transferred  into her name; Mortgage 
Express hadnt explained that this wasnt correct and she was simply Mr Js personal 
representative and being allowed to stay in the property in that capacity. 
The investigator thought Mortgage  Express shouldve  done more; for example, it knew  
Mrs Js income  and spending as early  as 2012.  The failure to assist the estate denied Mrs J 
the ability to make changes to the mortgage  or consider a repayment  plan, and her 
unprotected in the investigators  view.  While  only the estate was the complainant, not Mrs J 
in her own right, the investigator  said the failure  to properly explain matters and deal with 
them by Mortgage  Express  caused the estate inconvenience and £500 compensation should 
be paid.
Mortgage Express disagreed. It said Mrs J shouldve been aware that the mortgage  wasnt in 
her name and she was acting as executor. Mortgage Express  said that it wasnt  possible to 
transfer a mortgage held in one name into anothers and it had already allowed Mrs J to stay 
in the property, despite the situation.  The second investigator said that Mortgage Expresss  
failure to seek a formal  resolution and just allowing the estate  to pay the mortgage was 
unfair as it left the estate without any formal consumer protection.
Ref: DRN80697632The estate  said that Mrs J had trusted Mortgage Express and by allowing the situation to go 
on for so long unresolved, it made  matters worse, as well as ignoring the tragedy she had 
suffered, but accepted the second  investigators  view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The core of this complaint  is that the estate of Mr J, which is in practical terms Mrs J, faced a 
difficult situation following  Mr Js death.  Mortgage Express  is legally correct  in saying that 
when one person  alone  has a mortgage  dies, the mortgage ends, and this is confirmed in 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage.  This means technically that the mortgage was due 
to be repaid in full on Mr Js death, and I can see some of the letters from Mortgage Express 
tried to explain this.
But I can also see Mrs J, as executor, didnt understand this. She kept telling Mortgage 
Express that the mortgage was now in her name, and that the reference to her as executor 
wasnt important. Mrs Js misunderstanding  of the correct position seems to be evident  
throughout all her dealings with Mortgage  Express that Ive seen. She was one person, 
undertaking two roles   a widow raising  a young  child and executor; Mrs J didnt realise that 
there was a difference. Mortgage Express didnt adapt its correspondence to explain  matters 
clearly to her, and twice asked Mrs J to repay the mortgage in full within  a timescale  its own 
staff described as unrealistic.
Matters became further confused in my view when Mortgage Express asked Mrs J about  her 
income and spending in 2012. As it was unable to put the mortgage in her sole name, why 
was this step necessary? This further  led Mrs J to believe the mortgage was in her name. 
And by 2018,  Mortgage Express told Mrs J it was happy to leave matters as they were, 
provided that the monthly mortgage  payments were made. This was described  as a 
temporary measure in 2012, but by 2018  Mortgage Express had accepted that it was 
permanent. I accept it had told Mrs J that the mortgage would need to be repaid when it 
ended but I think  to act fairly and reasonably, it needed to explain more  than this point.
But while Mortgage  Express acted  fairly  and reasonably  in my view in allowing Mrs J to stay 
in the property, given the surrounding  circumstances, it knew  Mrs J wasnt the mortgage 
holder and no steps were taken to rectify a situation  that shouldnt  have been allowed to drift 
for so many years. Mortgage  Express is no longer  lending, but that wasnt always  the case. 
Mortgage Express says it now isnt possible to transfer the mortgage into Mrs Js sole name; 
this is correct as Mortgage  Express stopped lending several years ago. But the second 
investigator didnt  recommend a redress putting  the mortgage in Mrs Js sole name, possibly  
because by the time of her view, the property had been sold.  She identified that the only fair 
and reasonable resolution at this stage  to address Mortgage Express  failure to explain 
matters in a way that the estate/Mrs  J understood and to work with Mrs J to ensure  a 
resolution, rather than allowing the situation  to drift, is compensation. I agree.
Mortgage Express shouldve explained in simple  terms  to Mrs J the position,  what it meant 
for her, and that she might be better  served taking advice to see if she could get a mortgage  
in her sole name elsewhere, especially as it was repeatedly shown  that Mrs J didnt 
understand. If Mortgage Express  had done this, it is likely to have led to Mrs J selling the 
property earlier as happened once the situation was explained to her by this service and 
Ref: DRN80697633others assisting her. Mortgage Express in responding to Mrs Js complaint accepted that it 
hadnt made the position clear enough and said that it was committed  to finding  a solution  
simply ignoring the situation and leaving Mrs J in the property didnt equate  to finding a 
solution in my view.
The estate  of Mr J is the complainant,  not Mrs J as an individual.  Estates cant  suffer  trouble 
and upset. But the estate has been  put to inconvenience, trying to resolve the situation  over 
several years without sufficient help from Mortgage Express, and having to complain more 
than once. While money  never  truly compensates for such experiences,  Im satisfied that 
£500 is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Mortgage Express should pay the estate  
of Mr J £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failings outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8069763