K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HiFX Europe Limited has not told him where  25 Australian Dollars  
(AUD) went when he made an international transfer.
background
Mr W transferred  179.03 AUD to a family member using HiFX in May 2019. He says HiFX 
confirmed that there were  no transfer fees but the amount received by his family member  
was only 154.03 AUD. Mr W says HiFX has refused to say where  the missing money went or 
provide him with an explanation. He says HiFX has refunded the money as a goodwill 
gesture but that doesnt answer his question.
HiFX says it doesnt  make  a charge for the transfer but an intermediary bank or the receiving 
bank may make a charge  thats out of its control.  It says its refunded  the money as a 
gesture of goodwill but its not made a mistake. HiFX says it has told Mr W that he needs  to 
request a trace of the money with the recipient bank in Australia.
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HiFX  had explained  what Mr W needed to do and had taken the complaint as far as 
it could.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says HiFX has stubbornly refused to find out where the 
money went. He says its unlikely the family members bank will speak to him and says hes 
never come across  this problem in the past.  Mr W would  like answers  to his complaint and 
for HiFX  to do more to trace the missing money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr W will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
Im satisfied that HiFX has fairly explained to Mr W that it transferred the full amount  of 
money and that it didnt  apply any charges. And I also think  that HiFX has told Mr W on a 
number of occasions what he needs to do to try and trace the money- by asking the recipient 
bank to explain where the money  went and or if it was subject to a charge. So whilst Im 
sorry to disagree with Mr W, I think HiFX has tried to assist him and hasnt acted stubbornly 
by refusing to investigate  further.
I think it likely that the recipient bank in Australia has made a charge as I can see from its 
website that it says it will do so for any international payment.  I also think  that if Mr W would 
like to find out what that charge was and or if any further charges were made by other banks 
involved in the process,  then he or his family member would have to ask that bank.  I 
appreciate in the circumstances  that may not be possible. But on balance  Im satisfied HiFX 
is unlikely to have  been given that information  by the Australian  bank or is entitled to it.
I appreciate that Mr W says he has not encountered this problem in the past and if charges 
had been applied, then the recipient  bank  would note them.  I agree  with Mr W that should 
happen but that doesnt mean I can fairly  or reasonably hold HIFX responsible  for the 
actions of a business it has no control  over.
Ref: DRN86235112Overall Im satisfied that HiFX hasnt  made  the charge for 25 AUD and Im also satisfied its 
clearly explained  what Mr W needs to do in order to try and trace the missing  money.  So for 
those reasons I cant fairly ask it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8623511