K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about  various  aspects of the service  they received  from Inter 
Partner Assistance  SA (IPA) - and the firm of solicitors it appointed - when dealing with a 
claim made on their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
All and any references  to IPA in this decision include their claims handlers. 
background
In early 2014 Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their LEI policy  to fund a claim for nuisance 
and / or negligence as a result of flooding to part of their land. A panel firm of solicitors was 
appointed by IPA to assess the prospects of Mr and Mrs S succeeding in those claims and - 
if those prospects were  above 50% - to represent  them (the law firm). The law firm was also 
acting for Mr and Mrs S in a separate action regarding a boundary dispute they were 
involved in.
The law firm initially advised Mr and Mrs S that the prospects of them succeeding in the 
claim were above 50%. IPA agreed to cover Mr and Mrs Ss legal costs subject to the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
IPA was notified by the law firm towards  the end of 2015 that Mr and Mrs S had requested  
their case  be closed.  Mr and Mrs S subsequently  contacted IPA in spring 2016 informing it 
that they hadnt asked for this to happen,  and subsequently IPA agreed further funding for 
the law firm to continue  acting for them. 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that the law firm didnt act in their best interests; they dont 
believe it carried out any substantial work  on the claim. They  also say it repeatedly failed to 
reply to some of their emails, prioritised other clients cases  over theirs, and didnt do things 
within the timeframes that it said it would  (and sometimes not at all). They say they made 
IPA aware of this and IPA didnt take sufficient action against  the law firm, which was 
detrimental to their claim - and their ability to pursue settlement negotiations. 
In early 2018 Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint that was dealt  with under the law firms  
internal complaints procedure. After investigation,  the law firm partly  upheld that complaint. 
Around this time, the law firm also advised Mr and Mrs S that the prospects of them 
succeeding in the claim had fallen  below 51%.  As a result IPA withdrew funding. However, 
because Mr and Mrs Ss complaint had been partly upheld, the law firm offered to contribute 
£750 plus VAT towards the instruction of a barrister to give a second opinion on the 
prospects of Mr and Mrs S succeeding  in the claim.  It also recommended three barristers to 
Mr and Mrs S, all of whom, it said, had the required expertise  to advise on prospects. The 
law firm said it would cover the costs  of any of those  barristers. 
Mr and Mrs S preferred to instruct a barrister of their choice  and initially they wanted to 
instruct a QC. IPA, as a gesture of goodwill, agreed  to fund the costs of a solicitor to instruct  
the QC and to paginate a bundle of documents to go with those  instructions.  But it said it 
wouldnt contribute to the costs of the QC providing  an opinion on prospects as, at that 
stage, prospects had already been assessed  to be below 51%.
 
Mr and Mrs S put forward details of some  legal firms they wanted  IPA to appoint  on their 
behalf to instruct  the QC. But, ultimately, none  of these firms  were  instructed. Mr and Mrs S 
Ref: DRN82859462then agreed to the instruction of a more junior barrister to provide a second  opinion on 
prospects, on a direct  access basis. IPA agreed to make  a contribution to the barristers 
assessment as a law firm wasnt now needed  to provide that formal instruction.
In October  2018, the barrister concluded that the prospects of Mr and Mrs S succeeding in 
the claim were below 51%, and he didnt think theyd be able to establish significant  loss.
Mr and Mrs S have  raised various  issues about  IPA. They  hold them responsible  for the 
actions of the law firm. They also say IPA failed to intervene even though Mr and Mrs S had 
raised multiple concerns about the way the law firm was handling their case - and that were 
complicit in the delays  caused to their case, including the delay instructing the barrister to 
give a second  opinion on prospects. 
Theyre also unhappy that:
-IPAs policy terms were  too restrictive, deterring  other law firms from acting for them to 
instruct the barrister  to provide a second  opinion on prospects;
-the law firm wasnt specialist in the relevant field of law; and 
-IPA didnt agree to contribute to the QCs proposed fees to give a second opinion  on 
prospects.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. She didnt think IPA had done  
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs S dont agree and theyve raised a number of points  in reply. 
Their complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Having done so, I dont 
uphold it. I know Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed by this. Before I set out my reasons, 
I just want to assure them that, although I havent addressed each point theyve made, 
I have taken on board all of their comments. 
the work  carried out by the law firm:
Under the policy, IPA is entitled to appoint a firm on its panel of approved legal firms to 
assess the merits of Mr and Mrs S succeeding  in the claim. And then represent them  in that 
action, if they had more chance of winning the claim than not - subject to the remaining 
policy terms.
The policy says: at any time we may form the view that you do not have a more  than 50% 
chance of winning the case and achieving  a positive outcome. If so, we may decline  support 
or any further support
Its common for LEI policies to include a condition like this and generally we dont think that 
sort of clause is unfair. Thats  because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer  to 
provide funding for a claim that isnt likely  to succeed, or where a client paying the costs 
themselves wouldnt  be advised to start legal action  or continue  with it. So I dont think the 
inclusion of that term in Mr and Mrs Ss LEI policy is unfair.
I know Mr and Mrs S are extremely  unhappy  about  the way their case was conducted by the 
law firm. But we cant consider complaints about  the general  legal advice  or service given by 
Ref: DRN82859463a firm of solicitors because theyre not under IPAs control. They  are independent  
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures  - which Mr and Mrs S have 
exhausted. 
We can only consider whether IPA did anything wrong in the way it handled  the insurance 
claim. That includes whether the advice given to Mr and Mrs S was obviously wrong or 
based on factual  mistakes to the extent that IPA shouldve reasonably questioned it. Im 
satisfied thats  not the case here.  
We can also consider whether IPA appointed a suitably qualified law firm to represent 
Mr and Mrs S under  the policy.  Im satisfied that it did.
Mr and Mrs S say that the firm appointed by IPA to legally represent them shouldve had 
experience in environmental law and, in particular, drainage issues.  But having researched 
the law firm it looks like it had expertise in property litigation  which included negligence and 
nuisance claims. So I dont think IPA acted unreasonably when appointing it. 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim was initially conducted by a paralegal at the law firm. But Im satisfied  
that he was under the supervision  of a qualified solicitor who was experienced in property 
litigation based on her online  professional  profile.  Mr and Mrs S say that solicitor was too 
busy to provide supervision. Ive seen correspondence that the law firm sent to them at 
various times explaining  that it was a very busy department and at times they had more 
pressing matters to attend to. But Ive also seen  emails which show that the solicitor was 
supervising the paralegals work.  For example, in an email to Mr and Mrs S dated July 2015,  
she says shed discussed with the paralegal  whats required from Mr and Mrs S prior to a 
lengthy phone call hed had with them. 
After the paralegal left the law firm, and the supervising solicitor  had gone on maternity  
leave, the case  was conducted  by a solicitor who also had significant  litigation experience.
Delays:
Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy with delays to their case. Ive already explained above why 
I dont think its reasonable to hold IPA responsible for the way the law firm conducted the 
claim. But Ive considered  whether  anything  IPA did contributed to those delays  and 
whether IPA shouldve intervened when Mr and Mrs S notified it that the law firm werent 
doing much  to progress  their case and / or not getting back  to them  with requested  updates.
The law firm were appointed by IPA in spring  2014 to consider Mr and Mrs Ss claim and IPA 
chased the law firm a number of times for their assessment. It wasnt  until December 2014 
that the law firm provided that assessment  and confirmed that prospects were above 50% so 
that funding could continue. So I dont think IPA was responsible for any delays in 2014.
IPA also chased  the law firm for updates in 2015 and was eventually  told that Mr and Mrs S 
didnt want to pursue  the claim and it would be closing its file. I know  Mr and Mrs S dispute 
that it had asked the law firm to close the case,  but I dont think  IPA has done  anything 
wrong by relying  on what the law firm had told it.
After Mr and Mrs S found out in 2016  that their case had been closed they proceeded to 
send IPAs representative emails over a period of a couple of months  whilst the law firm 
Ref: DRN82859464re-opened their file and reallocated their case to another solicitor. IPA acknowledged  those 
emails and forwarded them to the law firm for consideration, which is what I would expect it 
to do. It also chased  the law firm for an updated assessment on prospects. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted IPA on a number of occasions after this, raising  concerns about  the 
law firms delays  or non-action. But having  considered everything, Im satisfied IPA followed 
this up with the law firm, as Id expect. It also updated Mr and Mrs S once it had done that. 
In early 2018 Mr and Mrs S emailed  IPA with a comprehensive background, detailing their 
concerns over the law firms delays over many months. IPA forwarded that email to the law 
firm. It also informed Mr and Mrs S that they could  escalate this matter  through the law firms 
internal complaints procedure or, if they preferred, IPA could do that on their behalf. I think  
thats reasonable and, again, in line with what I would  expect.
Ive also considered whether IPA did anything that unfairly delayed  matters after the 
relationship between the law firm and Mr and Mrs S had broken down, and prospects  had 
fallen below 51%.
It took around six months for the barrister to be instructed to give a second opinion  on 
prospects. That is a long time. But it looks like there were a number of reasons for this; many 
of which  were outside the control of IPA. These  included: Mr and Mrs S not agreeing  to the 
instruction of a barrister  put forward by the law firm and then looking for another law firm to 
instruct a QC to give a second assessment on prospects. And, subsequently, the availability 
of the barrister who was eventuality instructed  to provide that assessment.
Im satisfied that IPA was proactively  trying to assist Mr and Mrs S during this time to appoint 
another legal  firm to provide the instructions to the QC to give a second assessment. It made 
enquiries with a different firm on its panel  of approved  legal firms but they were  unable to 
assist due to a conflict of interest. 
It was also in discussions with both legal firms suggested by Mr and Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S 
say those legal firms  were put off by the appointment  terms offered by IPA. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that it was the terms  and in particular the proposed hourly  charge  out 
rate - that put them  off acting for Mr and Mrs S. Besides, even if it was, theres nothing  to 
suggest that those  firms tried to negotiate their hourly rate with IPA. 
Once Mr and Mrs S agreed  to a more junior barrister to give the second assessment on 
prospects (rather than the QC), there was some  initial confusion about who would provide 
the instruction  to the barrister  Mr and Mrs S or IPA. But this was quickly  cleared up and 
IPA requested a copy of the law firms file and promptly sent this to the barrister in early  
August 2018,  confirming  the basis of his instruction  and the fee that had been  agreed.  
It did take several weeks for IPA to send  formal instructions to barrister after that, and to pay 
the barristers fees up front (which  he insisted on in this particular case).  But the barrister 
was away for much  of August 2018 and hed received everything from IPA by 
mid-September 2018. This delay was comparatively small given the delays  that had gone 
before that, which Ive already said IPA isnt responsible for. And I cant  see that it impacted 
Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S also say that the barrister wasnt sent all of the relevant paperwork by IPA and 
he had to clarify a number  of things with them, as a result. IPA didnt have day to day 
conduct of the case, isnt the legal expert  and so its not meant  to know  whether the file is 
Ref: DRN82859465complete. Its reasonable for IPA to rely on what the law firm sent it when forwarding the file 
to the barrister. 
other matters:
Mr and Mrs S also say that IPA shouldve  contributed to the cost of the QC preparing a 
second opinion  on prospects. IPA did agree to a further funding request made by the law 
firm in early 2017 so that it could carry out further work for Mr and Mrs S  which included 
the cost of instructing a barrister  to prepare an assessment  on prospects. But that was when 
the law firm had advised prospects of Mr and Mrs S succeeding in their claim were above 
50%. IPA cant be held responsible for any failure of the law firm to instruct a barrister - or 
other expert - at any stage before it advised  IPA that prospects had fallen below 51%. As 
Ive said above  the law firm are the legal experts  and were  responsible  for the day to day 
conduct of their case. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019..
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8285946