K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank)  lent him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
Mr J wants Piggybank to refund remove the negative entries from his credit file, pay him 
compensation and write off any outstanding balance.
Mr J is represented in his complaint  by a claims management company (CMC).
background
Mr J took out two loans  with Piggybank  between  July 2015 and November 2015. He was 
due to repay loan one for £350 over five monthly  payments of about £125.  Mr J was due to 
repay loan two for £550 by five instalments of around £208.
Mr J wasnt able to repay  loan two but it has since been written  off as part of a debt relief 
order.
Piggybank didnt agree that it was irresponsible to lend. It said Mr J declared  his monthly net 
income to be £1,500  for both loans.  Piggybank  recorded monthly outgoings of £750 each 
time. Piggybank also carried out credit checks and included any undeclared credit  
commitments as part of its affordability assessment.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint be upheld.  He thought Piggybanks  
checks went far enough. Based on the information  Mr J gave Piggybank and the checks  it 
carried out, the adjudicator thought it was reasonable to agree loans one and two. 
Mr J disagrees  with the adjudicators recommendation.  The CMC has asked us to consider 
further information about Mr Js income  and expenditure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation. 
Piggybank was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make sure that Mr J could afford  
the loan repayments. There wasnt a set list of checks  that Piggybank had to carry out. But 
the checks needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount of each repayment,  the 
length of the agreement and any borrowing history.
loan one 
Piggybank expected Mr J to repay  the equivalent  of less than 10% of his declared  net 
income each month. I think it wouldve been reasonable of Piggybank to agree loan one 
based on knowing Mr Js income alone.
Piggybank went further than this and asked Mr J about his living costs and regular credit 
commitments.  From what Mr J told Piggybank, he was left with a monthly  disposable 
income of £750.  
Ref: DRN87589562Piggybanks credit check showed  one other  payday  loan. It looks  as though Mr J was up to 
date with the other loan. Given the relatively  small balance on the other payday loan, I dont 
think that Piggybank  shouldve  been  prompted to ask more questions than it did.
I think it was reasonable  of Piggybank  to agree  loan one based on the information Mr J gave 
and what it knew about him.
loan two
Mr J declared  the same  income  and outgoings  for loan two as he did for loan one. But 
Piggybanks credit check showed  three  other payday loans. 
I think that by now it was reasonable to expect  Piggybank to act on the information  in its 
credit check  and try to find out what Mr J owed  to the other payday lenders. As I dont have 
enough evidence  to suggest that it did this, Im not persuaded that Piggybanks  checks were 
proportionate. 
I asked Mr J through his CMC to let me have details of his short  term credit liabilities around 
time of loan two. The CMC hasnt given me this information so I dont know what Piggybank 
wouldve discovered had it carried out better checks before loan two. This means I cant 
reasonably uphold Mr Js complaint  about loan two either.
Although I appreciate that Mr J says his income was lower  and his outgoings were higher 
than he told Piggybank, I dont think what I consider to have been proportionate checks  
wouldve revealed this. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8758956