K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them  an interest  only mortgage. 
Theyre also not happy with a recent online application they tried to make which was 
declined.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in December  2008 on an interest only basis with a term of 
10 years.  The rate taken at the time was a variable rate which was 0.99% above  the Bank of 
England base rate, which at the time was 2%. This made the rate 2.99%.
Mr and Mrs S say they were told the mortgage  rate would be 0.99% above  the base rate for 
the life of the mortgage and not for 10 years   so they think  the mortgage was mis-sold.  
They say that other  mortgage options were  not provided to them  and repayment vehicles at 
retirement werent discussed.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs S wanted to apply for further  borrowing. They also wanted  to extend 
their mortgage term and change the rate they were  on. They say they put down pension  as 
their repayment vehicle and theyre unhappy this was declined as it wasnt  accepted by 
HSBC. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC  who said that their mortgage wasnt mis-sold. HSBC said 
the mortgage was chosen by Mr and Mrs S and the rate they chose was clear  on the 
mortgage offer. They also said that in regards to their application for further borrowing, they 
did think their online  process could have been clearer.  They  offered Mr and Mrs S £750 
compensation for the inconvenience and mis-leading information during  their online 
application process.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with what HSBC had said so they brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked  at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She didnt think that the mortgage was mis-sold  and she 
thought the compensation  that HSBC had given  for the online application process was fair.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the investigator. They  said they were sold a 22 year term on 
a lifetime mortgage so they thought it would run up until Mr S retirement.  They also didnt  
think that £750 was a reasonable amount  of compensation.
They asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman so it has been  passed to me 
to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs S, I agree  with what  the investigator has said for broadly  the same  reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN88619362mis-sale of mortgage
Ive had a look at the mortgage offer for when the mortgage was taken out in 2008.  Ive also 
had a look at the notes  HSBC have provided. I can see that Mr and Mrs S had initially 
applied for the same  mortgage but over a term of 22 years. But the notes I have seen from 
HSBC show that HSBC declined this term due to the number of debts that Mr and Mrs S had 
outstanding. Instead, they offered to lend over a term of 10 years. 
While Mr and Mrs S may have wanted a 22 year term initially,  this was declined  by HSBC. 
The mortgage offer shows  the mortgage was to be taken out on an interest  only basis  with a 
term of 10 years, which they signed and agreed to. It also shows  that the mortgage was 
taken out on a non-advised  basis. This means  HSBC didnt recommend a particular product 
or repayment method to Mr and Mrs S. They had to give them  enough information to enable  
them to make an informed  choice as to what product they wanted to take out. It was then for 
Mr and Mrs S to decide whether it was right for them  based on their own circumstances at 
the time.  
As explained above, the interest  rate on the offer shows that it was a variable rate which was 
0.99% above  the Bank of England  base rate, which at the time was 2%. This made the rate 
2.99%. Mr and Mrs S accepted this mortgage  offer, which also set out clearly  the term of the 
mortgage. So I cant say they werent made  aware  that this rate was for a 10 year term.
Overall I think  the information HSBC  provided  to Mr and Mrs S was clear,  fair and not 
misleading. So Im satisfied HSBC provided them with enough information to make  their own 
informed choice at the time. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs S concerns.  Based on the 
information presented  to HSBC, it wasnt unreasonable for them  to accept Mr and Mrs S 
stated repayment  vehicle of bonuses  which is what Mr S said he would use on the 
application form in 2008. HSBC had no reason  to think this wasnt a viable way to repay the 
mortgage based on what they knew about Mr and Mrs S circumstances. 
mortgage application
In 2018, Mr and Mrs S applied to HSBC for further borrowing. They also wanted to change 
the interest rate they were on and also extend the mortgage term. Mr and Mrs S tried to 
submit this application online. Because  the mortgage was interest  only, one of the questions 
Mr and Mrs S were  asked was what their repayment vehicle was going  to be in order  to pay 
the mortgage balance off at the end of the term. Mr and Mrs S say they opted  for ad hoc 
capital and pension as their choices.
HSBC declined the application  because they said that a pension  wasnt  an acceptable  
repayment vehicle.  Ive taken a look at the screen shots which  show what Mr and Mrs S 
would have seen  when they applied  for this mortgage. There  are various boxes, one of 
which would have allowed them to choose  pension as a repayment vehicle  so I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs S thought  this option would be acceptable.
HSBC have said the option for a pension as a repayment vehicle is something that 
borrowers can choose when making an online application. But this option  would only be 
available if there  were no material changes being made to the mortgage  in Mr and Mrs S 
case they wanted to borrow  more, which was a significant change. The online  application  
system wouldnt  necessarily pick this up and it would only be at underwriting  stage that it 
would become apparent. This is why Mr and Mrs S application was declined at this later 
stage.
Ref: DRN88619363HSBC made  Mr and Mrs S aware of other repayment options  they would accept but 
Mr and Mrs S decided  not to go through with anything  else.  Mr and Mrs S also mentioned at 
one point that they would use the sale of their property, but HSBC  said that this wasnt  
something they could  accept either.  
Since Mr and Mrs S took out their original  mortgage some years  ago, the rules  set out by the 
regulator have  become  stricter. In particular, theyre stricter in terms of what  a mortgage 
lender must consider  around repayment plans  for interest only mortgages. Plans to pay back 
the outstanding balance  on a mortgage  should  be credible.
HSBC have told us they no longer accept pensions as a repayment strategy  for new 
mortgage applications. Theyve provided us with details  from their policy, which explains 
why. That information  is commercially sensitive and confidential. So I wont be sharing it with 
Mr and Mrs S. But, as its material  and relevant to this case, Ive summarised  what Ive seen 
and my thoughts  below.
The information HSBC  have provided  shows why HSBC  believe pensions are no longer a 
credible repayment  strategy. Im satisfied  these reasons are fair. Mr and Mrs S are asking for 
new lending,  which means theyre applying for a new mortgage,  which  must meet the current 
regulations. It is ultimately for HSBC to set their own lending  policy,  taking those regulations 
into account, and to decide  how and when they lend. HSBC  have  told us that they wouldnt 
allow use of a pension  as a repayment strategy for any new applications. Their main  concern 
is that a pension should be used  in retirement  and not necessarily to pay back the balance 
on the mortgage  so they didnt think it was the right thing for Mr and Mrs S to do. I think  
taking this into account along  with Mr and Mrs S circumstances, I cant say that HSBC  were 
unfair in making  this decision.
I do agree  however that this part of the mortgage  application wasnt as clear  as it could have 
been. I can understand why Mr and Mrs S thought they would be able to use a pension  as a 
repayment vehicle,  as it was an option  available for them to choose. HSBC  paid 
Mr and Mrs S £750 because of this and the inconvenience this caused Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S dont  think this amount is enough, but based on what  I have seen, I think that 
what HSBC have offered  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8861936