K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained about  the service she received from Phoenix Life Limited  (Phoenix)  as 
she approached  her selected retirement date (SRD)  in November 2017. Ms P also says her 
annuity with Phoenix  hasnt  been set up on the correct  basis and as a result she stands to 
suffer a very substantial financial loss.  
background
Ms P had a Retirement  Annuity  Contract (RAC)  with Phoenix.  It was set up in January 1987. 
A monthly  premium of £58.79 was payable until December 2013.  The premiums  were 
invested in the providers  with profits fund. The RAC  provided a guaranteed  annuity (or 
pension) of £3,171.10 a year from Ms Ps original SRD   her 60th birthday in November  
2014. 
In November 2014 Ms P deferred accessing her pension benefits until a date in November 
2017  which became  her new SRD.  And she recommenced paying premiums of £20 per 
month. 
Ms P was in contact with Phoenix in early 2017 about taking her benefits that November.  
Im not going  to set out each and every letter and telephone call. But Ive summarised what I 
see as the main correspondence  and calls. 
Phoenix wrote to Ms P on 10 March 2017  in response to her telephone call on 21 February 
2017. Shed  raised a number of points about information shown on her annual statement 
and what shed been told over the telephone  in January 2017. 
Phoenix explained how various  figures on the statement had been calculated.  It said the 
information given  was correct.  An incorrect figure had been given in 2006. But the error had 
been explained in a letter sent in June 2009.  Phoenix went  on to deal with other issues  that 
Ms P had raised. 
Ms P had some further queries. Phoenix wrote to her on 20 April 2017  with some more  
information about the guaranteed annuity, bonuses, transfer value and death benefits.  About 
the latter Phoenix said that on death  before retirement a return of fund would be paid (either  
as an annuity  or a lump sum depending on circumstances). Phoenix also said the death 
benefit was paid tax free if claimed within two years. If more than two years  had passed  then 
tax of 45% would be deducted if paid to the estate or at marginal rate if paid to an individual. 
Ms P wrote  to Phoenix on 18 May 2017,  having  spoken to Phoenix over the telephone that 
day. She said what Phoenix  had said about  the death benefits  was, at best, vague. And 
Phoenix hadnt said she needed  to update  her beneficiary nomination,  details of which  she 
set out in her letter. 
Phoenix wrote to Ms P on 6 June  2017 with a retirement pack  setting out options for 
accessing her pension benefits  in November 2017. A lot of information was given, including  
a form for Ms P to complete to request a personalised annuity illustration. 
Ms P called  Phoenix on 4 August 2017.   Phoenix  conducted a retirement  interview  that is 
Phoenix took Ms P through the information  provided  in the retirement  pack. Phoenix 
explained that once Ms P had confirmed  what she thought she might  want to do, Phoenix  
could then send  her personalised quotations. Some options were discussed, including 
Ref: DRN85847722escalation and guarantee periods. Ms P raised a number of concerns during the call, 
including that the retirement  pack was difficult to understand.  She felt that Phoenixs 
retirement process needed revision.
Ms P called  again  on 7 August 2017  to say that she thought shed been given wrong fund 
values over the years. She also said that her feedback on Phoenixs  processes entitled her 
to compensation  of at least £1,000.
Phoenix wrote to Ms P on 10 August 2017  with another retirement pack. It included  a 
number of retirement quotations  setting out what Ms Ps annual pension  would be, 
depending on if she opted for an escalating  pension and/or a guarantee period. 
Phoenix wrote to Ms P on 31 August 2017  about  the concerns shed raised about the 
retirement process, including the information shed  been given. Amongst other  things, 
Phoenix said that it had certain obligations, one of which was to ensure the customer was 
aware of the risks and considerations of the option chosen. Phoenix asked the customer to 
have a conversation  so there was an opportunity to discuss the various options available 
and answer any questions.  
Phoenix said the information pack it had sent to Ms P set out the available options,  including  
a guarantee period or escalation. There was a telephone  number if Ms P had queries or 
wanted further information.  Phoenix  also addressed concerns Ms P had raised  about  the 
website, data protection and waiting times. And what shed said about the transfer value  
shown on her statements. Phoenix said further  information would  follow about the benefits 
Ms P could have taken  from 2009 onwards - Ive seen that was sent to Ms P on 6 
September 2017. Phoenix thanked Ms P for her feedback but it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. So it didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint or offer any compensation. 
I dont think Ms P contacted Phoenix again  until 9 October 2017. She asked for a call back  
which Phoenix says it attempted but wasnt able to contact Ms P. 
Ms P called  Phoenix on 19 and 20 October 2017.  Phoenix wrote to her on 27 October  2017.  
It had also spoken  to Ms P over the telephone on 23 October 2017.  Phoenix explained how 
the fund value shown in the information sent on 10 August 2017 had been calculated and 
the terminal bonus included. Phoenix referred to the quotation Ms P had said might best suit 
her (no tax free cash, annuity payable monthly  in advance, level, guaranteed  for five years, 
single life with no dependents pension).  Phoenix explained how the guarantee period would 
work. Phoenix also said, if Ms P opted  for escalation, her starting  annuity  would  be lower but 
would increase each year. As Ms P didnt want to talk to its customer care team  to progress 
her claim, Phoenix would start the written version  of the risks and considerations process. 
Phoenix didnt  agree  with what Ms P had said about  not being  able to fully understand her 
options and the quotes shed been  sent, or that she had no choice but to defer her decision. 
Phoenix said it had given her all the information she needed and offered further help. 
Phoenix said it hadnt made any errors  and so wasnt prepared  to offer any compensation. 
Ms P also telephoned Phoenix on 2 November 2017. She had a number of queries about  the 
information shed  been given. She repeated earlier expressed concerns about  how it had 
been presented.  She also queried  whether final bonuses had been included  and what they 
might actually be. Phoenix explained that the figures given included the estimated projected  
terminal bonus. But the actual amount would only be known when benefits were actually 
taken. A personalised quotation was discussed.  Death benefits  and the guarantee period 
Ref: DRN85847723were also mentioned. Phoenix  explained  that once an annuity had been bought that gave 
Ms P an income for life. But she didnt  still have a fund as such. 
Phoenix wrote to Ms P on 2 November  2017 with a questionnaire for her to complete. 
Phoenix said it needed the information  to identify any risks that might apply and tell Ms P 
about them. There are also letters dated 3 November 2017  (about final bonuses) and 6 and 
8 November 2017 (about deferring taking benefits). Ms P was asked to complete  a 
questionnaire (different the one that had been  sent earlier).  She ticked all of the boxes 
indicating that she was unsure of the implications of taking her pension at a later date. She 
added some notes to the form saying, amongst other things, that shed had to defer taking 
her benefits.  She indicated she wanted  to defer her retirement until November 2018.
Ms P raised a further complaint by telephone on 7 November 2017. Phoenix  wrote to her the 
next day, setting  out the points it would be investigating. A further copy of the risks and 
considerations questionnaire was enclosed. Once  that had been  returned Phoenix would 
issue a declaration for Ms P to sign so that it could process the deferment. 
Ms P called  again  on 20 November 2017.  Phoenix  wrote the same day, setting out the 
queries shed raised and Phoenixs replies  in writing as Ms P had requested. Her questions  
were about  the final bonus and how it could be applied in August, before the claim had been  
made; what annuity payments would be made for two of the options  given;  what  the 
guarantee period was; and what penalties  would be imposed if she deferred  taking  her 
pension for one year, to November 2018.  Phoenix also confirmed it had received her 
questionnaire. It said it would process that and be in contact again with Ms P. And it would 
send its response to Ms Ps complaint once its investigation was complete. 
Phoenix sent that response on 24 November 2017. It dealt with what had happened since 
June 2017. Phoenix said it had made two errors in the information it had sent: its letter of 6 
November 2017  showed the incorrect retirement  date; and Ms Ps name was spelled 
incorrectly on the questionnaire. Phoenix didnt think any compensation was due. 
On 24 November 2017 Phoenix  wrote  to Ms P about the form shed completed. As shed 
said she was unsure of the risks associated with deferring, Phoenix  enclosed a new form 
with more detailed  and specific explanations.  Phoenix wrote to Ms P on 4 December  2017  
with a risks summary and a declaration for her to sign.  
However it seems that by 12 December 2017 Ms P had decided against deferring  and 
wanted instead to take her pension benefits,  backdated to her SRD in November 2017. She 
said shed suffered extreme distress and inconvenience  and spent much  time dealing with 
the matter, including giving extensive  customer feedback. She suggested  a goodwill 
payment of a minimum of £250.
On 20 December 2017 Ms P wrote to Phoenixs Chief  Executive.   She  expressed 
dissatisfaction that Phoenix had failed to provide information in time for her to take her 
benefits in November 2017. Ms P spoke  to Phoenix  on 28 December 2017 and again  on 11 
January 2018  before  Phoenix  wrote to her on 15 January 2018. 
Phoenix acknowledged it had made some administrative  errors for which  it would make  a 
trouble and upset  payment of £250.  It also said Ms P might want to speak to Pension Wise. 
Phoenix said it wouldnt make any annuity payments to her until it received her full and final 
instruction.
Ref: DRN85847724On 22 January 2018 Phoenix sent Ms P retirement packs for taking  her annuity with 
Phoenix. It also sent a further illustration   no tax free cash, an annuity of £3,936.66 a year 
(gross), single life, monthly in advance, no escalation and a ten year guarantee period. 
Phoenix explained that was based  on the current value of Ms Ps policy.  The (higher) August 
2017 quote was based on the fund value  at Ms Ps SRD in November 2017.
On 8 February 2018 Ms P wrote to Phoenix  confirming  that she wanted to take an annuity - 
£4,005.49 a year, which was based on the November 2017  fund value.  She said shed taken  
advice and she wanted interest  (at 8% pa) on the missed payments. 
In its letter  dated  27 February 2018  Phoenix confirmed Ms Ps pension plan had been 
surrendered as at her SRD in November 2017  and an annuity set up with effect from that 
date. A cheque for five monthly  payments  (less tax) was enclosed, with the next payment 
due on 1 April 2018. 
No interest had been added. Phoenix said, as a goodwill  gesture, it had honoured the fund 
value and terminal bonus as at November  2017  and had paid Ms Ps annuity from that date. 
The quote  issued  on 22 January 2018 showed  the fund value and the annuity  had dropped,  
due to a reduction  in terminal bonus rates. As Ms P had got the higher fund value and 
annuity she hadnt suffered any financial detriment. In another  letter sent the same  day 
Phoenix confirmed  that the annuity had been set up - £4,005.49 a year and on the basis  Ms 
P had requested.   
Ms P wrote  again to Phoenixs Chief Executive  on 20 March 2018. Amongst other things, 
she said her pension had been paid five months late, shed suffered great  distress  and 
hadnt had efficient customer service.  She said she was only taking her pension because  of 
the stress  of dealing  with staff she felt didnt  understand pensions.  She said the amounts 
paid were incorrect, she hadnt been paid interest  for being deprived of money and the 
trouble and upset  payment wasnt enough. 
The person  at Phoenix whod been  dealing with Ms Ps complaints previously replied. She 
explained what tax had been deducted  and why. She referred  to points previously  covered in 
correspondence. She set out how the difference in fund values had arisen. She reiterated  
that Ms P hadnt lost out financially while she was deciding what she wanted to do.    
Ms P remained dissatisfied.  There was further correspondence. On 7 June 2018 Phoenixs 
Chief Executive wrote  to Ms P saying  hed reviewed the complaint and was satisfied Ms Ps 
points had been addressed in previous correspondence. He was also comfortable that any 
errors had been  corrected  and compensation paid where appropriate.  He added that (aside 
from any problems Ms P might  encounter  that she hadnt previously mentioned) Phoenixs 
complaints procedure had been  exhausted  and it wouldnt respond  to any further letters. He 
reminded Ms P that she had the right to refer her complaint  to this service. 
Ms P did that. One of our adjudicators considered her complaints and Phoenixs responses. 
She also listened to all the available telephone  conversations since  the retirement interview 
on 4 August 2017. She wrote  to Ms P (copied to Phoenix) on 7 September  2018 setting out 
what she thought  about what had happened. 
In summary  she said there  were  some instances when Ms P had been given incorrect 
information or had been inconvenienced.  But overall  she thought the way Phoenix had dealt 
with Ms Ps complaints had been  fair and reasonable  and the compensation awarded  
sufficient. The adjudicator recognised that some  of the documentation could be confusing.  
Ref: DRN85847725But she said Phoenix  was obliged to provide much of this by its regulator.  And Ms P could 
have taken independent advice. The adjudicator didnt think  Phoenix had to honour  the 
incorrect fund value  it had, in error, given. She also said Phoenix  had explained the death 
benefits and calculated the annuity  correctly. 
Ms P was very unhappy with the adjudicators view. Ive listened to the lengthy telephone  
call Ms P had with another adjudicator. Im not going  to summarise all Ms P said.  But she felt 
very strongly  that shed been very badly treated by Phoenix. Amongst other  things she said 
shed only decided to take her pension  because dealing  with Phoenix was so stressful. 
She said shed first asked  for information  in March 2017 and shed yet to receive  a statement 
with the details of the pension. She said neither  Phoenix nor our adjudicator  knew the 
difference between  the investment value and the administration of the pension. She said 
Phoenixs administration of her pension had been a disaster. The adjudicator  had listened to 
80 hours of what Ms P described  as wrestling  with untrained  customer  advisers. The 
operations manager of the complaints department had then taken over. But she had no 
pensions experience and there were many errors.
Ms P was also unhappy with our investigation and the time taken. Especially as we then only 
gave her twelve days to respond to the adjudicators view. And she said it made  no sense for 
the adjudicator  to listen to 80 hours  of customer complaints and then not assess  or react to 
it. And she hadnt mentioned deprivation of money   which would attract  interest at 8%.  
There were a number of other telephone  calls,  which Ive listened to. They include a call on 
17 October 2018 between one of our team leaders and Ms P. The call was ostensibly to 
discuss concerns Ms P had about  our service, both in general and as well as about how her 
complaint had been handled. But during the call, and in an effort  to move  things forward, the 
team leader  constructed, with Ms P, a list of the points Ms P wanted the ombudsman to 
consider. 
Ive set out the list (which we shared with Ms P). As it was in note form and, having listened 
to the call, Ive rephrased  slightly some  of the points. 
1.The ombudsman should read all the letters referred to in the adjudicators  view and 
focus on the period March 2017  up to date. 
2.What her policy was invested in wasnt  identified. In its letter  of 27 February 2018 
Phoenix didnt  identify it as an annuity. 
3.The word annuity isnt mentioned in the adjudicators view.  
4.Ms P emphasised that the guarantee period of ten years  is an error. And that she has 
a traditional with profits lifetime guaranteed  pension. Shed calculated she stands to 
lose £150,000.  Shes been asking Phoenix to correctly identify her investment for the 
last two years. The  many attributes and merits of the policy are such that she 
shouldnt have  been subjected to a draconian  retirement interview, aimed  at 
coercing the customer  to agree to Phoenix  retaining the fund at the cost of a reduced  
annuity. Financial  advisers had told her that the policys unique attributes would be 
immediately lost on any market comparison, external or internal by Phoenix.   
5.This is a pension investment matter not a pension administration matter  for Phoenix. 
The adjudicators  agreement with Phoenix that Ms P should have sought advice is 
negated  only the pension provider  can administer the policy.  
6.It was grossly unfair to allow Phoenix  three months but only give her less than two 
weeks to respond  to the adjudicators  view.  
Ref: DRN858477267.The other adjudicator  Ms P had spoken to had used his initiative  and contacted 
Phoenix  the original  adjudicator should have done that. Phoenix reiterated the 
incorrect information and repeated its error  that the annuity  only had a ten year 
duration. Phoenix had made  another  error   it had confused the beneficiary matter 
with the annuity matter and had also transposed beneficiary lump sum with the tax 
free situation. Ms P confirmed theres  no tax free lump sum attached to the annuity. 
There is a beneficiary  lump sum (referred to in the beneficiary  form dated June 2017) 
which has somehow  disappeared?  
8.Ms P told the adjudicator the annuity ten year limit was incorrect  she had a 
traditional with profits  lifetime annuity (so shed lose over £150,000 over a lifetime 
period). That adjudicator had immediately understood the situation and said hed 
copy the call to the team manager   this is pivotal in discrediting the (original) 
adjudicators findings.  
9.That adjudicator  only commented on the entire  investment history since  1987 and 
didnt address the issues arising from March 2017  up to date. Ms P denounced  what  
she referred to as the adjudicators non-findings.  Nor did the adjudicator  address the 
effect of the complaint on Ms Ps health.  
10.Ms P requested  a copy  of the notes  made  during the call. 
11.Since 2002  no bonuses had been  added. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only looking at Ms Ps complaint 
against Phoenix. I wont be addressing  the issues shes raised about our handling of her 
complaint or what shes said more  generally  about  our service.  
As weve explained, we operate  a two stage decision making process.  An adjudicator will 
look into whats happened and come to a view about what, if anything, has gone wrong and 
what the business needs to do to put things  right. If the consumer or the business disagrees 
(and sometimes both parties do) an ombudsmans decision can be requested. 
The ombudsman will consider the complaint afresh.  Thats what Ive done - Ive reviewed all 
of the available information. Ive taken into account everything.  But I havent set out each 
and every point that Ms P or Phoenix has made.  Instead Ive concentrated on what  I see as 
the main points. 
I can see that Ms P is very unhappy  with how Phoenix has dealt with things  over the years.  
She was particularly disappointed that further issues arose in 2017  despite the assurances 
Phoenixs Chief Executive  gave  her in 2015  when dealing with the complaint shed made 
then. But, although  Ive noted the history of the matter and Ms Ps previous complaints to 
Phoenix, Im only dealing  with whats happened  more recently.  
So, and as Ms P has requested, Ive focused  on whats  happened since March  2017 when 
she was coming up to her SRD in November 2017.  Ive borne in mind  what shes said about  
the time shes spent  dealing  with the matter.  And the effect  on her health, particularly how 
her voice  has suffered as a result of all the telephone calls shes  had to make  there  are a 
large number of calls,  some of them lengthy. 
Phoenix admits that it made some administrative errors. Its paid Ms P compensation of 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  shes suffered. And it made some adjustments to 
Ref: DRN85847727her benefits   it backdated  her annuity  after allowing her time to take advice  if she wished 
and then confirm  to Phoenix  what she wanted to do. 
Where, as here, the business has accepted  that it didnt handle  everything as well as it (and 
the customer) would have  liked and has offered compensation and/or taken other  steps to 
put matters right, I have to decide if thats enough  based on what  I think  went wrong. 
The adjudicator thought  what  Phoenix  had offered was sufficient. Ms P was very unhappy 
with that. Ms P thinks its very clear  that shes been  unfairly treated by Phoenix and that 
shes entitled to substantial compensation. 
Ms Ps complaint centres on the difficulties she encountered from March 2017 onwards  in 
trying to make sure her pension (annuity) was put into payment in November 2017. That 
didnt happen   the annuity wasnt set up until late February/early March 2018  Phoenix 
confirmed on 27 February 2018 that it had been paid but I dont think  Ms P actually received 
the first payment until March 2018. So there was a delay. But that doesnt, of itself, mean 
that the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms P is now getting a pension (or annuity) of £4,005.49 a year (gross). To clarify, its a 
lifetime annuity (or pension). Payments  will continue for the rest of Ms Ps lifetime.  So it isnt 
the case that shell lose out very substantially (she says some £150,000) if the annuity stops 
after ten years and she survives for much longer. That wont happen  the payments will 
continue for as long as she lives. 
Ms P will get a regular  retirement income that will be paid for life.  The  annuity is on a single 
life basis  the income is just for Ms P so Phoenix wont  have to continue to pay the annuity 
after Ms P dies. But a guarantee period can be incorporated so that if the annuitant  dies 
early, the annuity  will continue to be paid for the rest of the guarantee period  selected. 
Ms P did include that option  she chose a ten year guarantee  period. That means if she 
dies during that period, say, after two years, the payments would continue for another  eight 
years. Payment will be made to Ms Ps estate  to be distributed according to her instructions.
It seems  the guarantee may have caused  some  confusion. From what shes  said it seems 
Ms P believes that payment of her annuity will cease after ten years.  But, as Ive explained,  
that isnt the case   the annuity  will be paid for the duration of Ms Ps lifetime.  Payments 
wont stop after ten years  they will be paid for the duration of Ms Ps lifetime.
But, as the annuity is on a single  life basis, payments wont continue  to be made to anyone 
else after Ms P dies (leaving aside the guarantee period if Ms P dies during the first ten 
years). And, as theres no escalation, the payments wont increase  the amount paid will 
stay the same.  
The death  benefits seem  to be another  area of confusion.  Ms P says theyve disappeared. 
In a way thats  right  the death benefits are different pre and post retirement  that is before 
Ms Ps pension fund was converted to an annuity  and afterwards. 
To explain, if Ms P had died before  her annuity had started  to be paid, then a return  of the 
fund would have  been paid, either as an annuity  or lump sum, depending  on circumstances. 
Ms P had nominated a beneficiary to receive that payment. But, now her pension  fund has 
been converted to an annuity, the position is different. So the nomination form is no longer 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN85847728If Ms P dies after ten years from when payments started, nothing further will be payable.  So 
there will be no payment for any beneficiary.  If she dies during the first ten years then the 
guarantee period means that her estate  will get the balance of the payments  that shed have 
got if shed have lived for ten years. 
As Ive noted Ms Ps annuity was backdated to November 2017.  She benefitted from the 
higher fund value   by January 2018 a drop in the terminal bonus rates  meant that her fund 
value and her annuity  were  less. She said that shes entitled to interest on the late 
payments. Ms P is right when she says our usual approach, where someone hasnt been 
made money  they should have got, is to award interest (at 8% per annum) on the missed 
payments. But it will depend on the circumstances. Here Phoenix backdated Ms Ps annuity 
and used the higher fund value. I think that was fair enough. Im not going  to say Phoenix  
should pay interest on the late payments.  
I know Ms Ps position is that the annuity  wasnt set up in November 2017 because  of the 
difficulties she had in dealing with Phoenix. And that she only took the annuity when she did 
because she found it too stressful to do anything  else. I do have sympathy  for Ms P. The 
information she was given was detailed and complicated. It can be difficult to marry up fund 
and transfer values, including projected figures. 
I can also understand what she says about  her RAC  the guaranteed  annuity it provided 
was good value. But, as Ms P discovered,  even taking that wasnt  entirely  straightforward  
because of the options available  such as escalation and guarantee periods. 
I also take Ms Ps point  that without  quotations  its difficult to make  a choice as she wont 
know how much  the various options might cost in terms of reducing  her monthly income.  But 
the process is logical  in that its designed  to make investors aware  of the options  (and risks) 
and once some options  (for example a joint annuity  in Ms Ps case) have been ruled out, 
personalised quotations can be provided.
Ive noted what  Ms P has said about  the retirement interview. Im sorry she feels it was 
unnecessary in her circumstances. Her policy offers good value for money.  She was always 
going to buy an annuity with Phoenix  so that shed benefit from the guarantees which would 
be lost if she transferred away or diluted  if she took a tax free cash  lump  sum. But I dont  
agree with what shes said about  Phoenix  wanting to avoid paying out on this type of policy.  
Not everybodys situation will be the same. For example, someone whos  in ill health may 
not wish to purchase a lifetime annuity.  Phoenix  wants to ensure that investors understand 
their choices and make  the right decisions for their particular circumstances and with 
financial advice if necessary. 
Ms P had described the interview as draconian. I dont agree. As Ive said, the written  
information Ms P was given was complicated. I dont think thats  Phoenixs fault  more a 
reflection of the fact that theres a large amount of information that needs  to be given (much 
required by the regulator)  and that there are different options to choose from, depending on 
the investors circumstances. So offering to talk Ms P through that should assist. 
And, having listened to the call, its clear that Ms P found some of the information  and the 
explanations given helpful  for example, what was said about  escalation and the option of a 
guarantee period,. And Ms P made  it clear that she was very happy with the service she 
received from the member of staff concerned.  
Ref: DRN85847729I think Phoenixs letter of 31 August 2017  dealt with Ms Ps wider concerns and comments 
about the retirement process more generally and why Phoenix  considered  the information it 
had provided was necessary and accurate and why Phoenix didnt consider any 
compensation to Ms P was due. 
I hope that deals with most of the points on the list set out above. To clear  up any remaining 
comments, Ms P says (see numbered point  2) that what her policy was invested  in wasnt  
identified. Shes been  keen to stress  that she has a traditional with profits  lifetime 
guaranteed pension or annuity. But, as Ive explained, Ms Ps retirement benefits are in two 
parts  pre and post retirement. Her contributions were invested in the providers with profits 
fund. But once shed  bought her annuity  theres no longer any investment element  so the 
with profits  label no longer applies.  The fund no longer exists  its been  used to buy the 
annuity. 
As Ive said above,  Phoenix wrote to Ms P more than once on 27 February 2018. The two 
letters Ive seen both do mention the word annuity . As do the Pension Annuity terms and 
conditions enclosed with one of the letters. 
And it isnt the case (see numbered point 3) that the adjudicator didnt mention the word 
annuity in her view she did. But I think what was noted down may have been a mistake.  
My understanding from listening  to the call is that Ms P was saying that Phoenix  hadnt 
mentioned annuity in its letter of 27 February  2018.  Ive already dealt with that point. 
I dont agree with what Ms P says (at point 5) about  it being an administrative  matter for 
Phoenix so that financial  advice  isnt required. The policy is with Phoenix  and it is required  to 
administer it and in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.  But, once Ms P came 
to take her benefits  from the policy, she had various options, about  which  she may have 
wanted to take advice.   
About point 6, Im sorry  Ms P was unhappy  that she was only given some  eight days to 
respond to the adjudicators view (although I cant immediately see that Phoenix  was given 
three months to reply).   I hope  Ms P was reassured when she spoke to another adjudicator 
who explained that the deadline wouldnt be imposed. I dont propose to comment  further as 
I think this is more to do with our service  which, as Ive explained, Im not dealing with. 
I note what Ms P has said about  no bonuses having been added  since  2002. I can 
understand thats disappointing. But I dont think that must mean that Phoenix  has done 
anything wrong. I think its more a reflection of investment conditions  during the 1980s  and 
1990s investment  returns were generally  higher and so bonuses could be paid.  The more 
difficult economic conditions that weve  seen  since has meant that bonus levels  havent  been 
maintained. 
With-profits funds have  attracted  criticism  for their lack of transparency. But there are 
measures in place  to protect with-profits investors.  Phoenix (and other with-profits fund 
providers) is accountable to the industry  regulator (the Financial  Conduct  Authority  the 
FCA) for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund (in accordance with its Principles 
and Practices of Financial  Management  document)  and the regulator  monitors the 
management of it. 
Phoenix, again in common with other with profits fund providers, is required to appoint a 
with-profits actuary and the FCA provides rules and guidance on their duties. Phoenix also 
has an independent With-Profits Committee whose remit is to protect  the interests of the 
Ref: DRN858477210with-profits policyholders and ensure that they are treated fairly. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest Phoenix isnt complying with its obligations to with-profits investors.  
To sum up, from what Ive seen I think Phoenix  tried to deal with Ms Ps comments,  
concerns and queries promptly and politely. There may have been some  misunderstandings. 
But, overall, I dont  think  that was Phoenixs fault or that Phoenix could or should have done 
much more. 
I dont expect Ms P to agree. She clearly  feels shes been  badly  treated by Phoenix. Im 
sorry to learn that her health has suffered. But I dont think  it would be right to award 
compensation when I dont  think  Phoenix  has done  anything wrong   aside from the errors  
its admitted and for which its paid or offered  compensation. So Im not going to ask Phoenix 
to do any more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8584772