K821x#15complaint
Ms R complained about the amount of compensation MBNA Limited (MBNA) offered to 
settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  which was 
associated with her store  card.
background
Ms R complained she had been mis-sold  a PPI policy with her store card opened in 
June 2000. MBNA offered to settle  her complaint and offered some compensation. 
But Ms R didnt think the amount offered was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in October  2018. This indicated that there was no dispute 
about the amount MBNA had offered for the costs of the PPI, which  came  to £426.58. But as 
Ms R had gone into debt on the account there was no evidence  she had ever fully paid the 
costs of the PPI and had been out of pocket for the full amount. So I said,  based on what I 
had seen, the offer MBNA had made  was fair.
In response to that provisional decision Ms R provided additional evidence about her debt. 
This was confirmation from the third party that had bought the debt from MBNA in June 2002 
that Ms R had repaid the full the debt,  and so repaid the costs  of the PPI, in April 2003. 
Taking this evidence into account  I reached  a different conclusion and issue  a second 
provisional decision in December 2018.
 
MBNA did not respond to the first provisional decision I issued, but has indicated in response 
to the second  provisional decision that it accepts my findings. It has also indicated  that the 
compensation of £541.69 was paid to Ms R in April 2018.
Ms R has confirmed receipt of my second  provisional decision and also that she received the 
compensation amount by bank transfer in April 2018.
More detail of the background  to this complaint is contained in my second provisional  
decision issued in December 2018,  a copy of which  is attached and it forms part of this final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I explained in more detail within my second provisional decision why I was going to direct 
MBNA to recalculate the compensation due to Ms R. I said I thought the total costs of the 
PPI that had been calculated at £426.58 was fair. But MBNA had only worked out 8% simple  
interest, as compensation for being  out of pocket, on £103.39. This was because  it said it 
didnt know if Ms R had ever repaid the remaining £323.19 for the PPI. It seems  Ms R went  
into debt on her account and in 2002 MBNA sold the debt to a third party. Part of that debt 
was for the £323.19 cost of the PPI that had been unpaid at that time. 
However in response  to my provisional  decision  Ms R had shown the whole debt had been 
cleared, so she was out of pocket for this £323.19  from the date she cleared the debt in 
April 2003. So I said MBNA should pay 8% on the total costs of the PPI from April 2003 and 
Ref: DRN86314192asked MBNA to provide an updated calculation  showing the additional 8% simple interest 
Ms R was due.
MBNA agreed with my findings and eventually  provided a new calculation  in response to my 
provisional decision to recalculate the 8% but it hasnt  done this correctly.  For some reason it 
updated the 8% simple  interest on the total cost of the PPI from the date the original amount 
of compensation,  £541.69, was paid to Ms R in April 2018, to the current date. 
Ms R confirms she received this £541.69 by bank  transfer in April 2018.  So Ms R wasnt  out 
of pocket for any of the actual costs of the PPI, and so no 8% simple interest is due on any 
of the PPI costs  after April 2018. Therefore this calculation  is incorrect.
In simple terms, MBNA hadnt paid Ms R any 8% simple interest on the £323.19 that formed  
part of the debt MBNA sold to a third party in 2002.  As Ms R fully repaid that debt in 
April 2003 she has been out of pocket  for the £323.19 since  then and should get 8% simple 
interest on this amount  to the date it was repaid in April 2018.
Therefore the calculation  MBNA should  have provided was 8% simple interest on £323.19 
from April 2003 to April 2018 when the total costs of the PPI were  refunded  to Ms R. This 
formed part of the compensation paid and so she hasnt been out of pocket for the amount 
after April 2018.
I have had a calculation undertaken for the 8% simple interest from April 2003 to April 2018 
on the £323.19. This comes to £387.85.  Tax on this amount would be £77.57 so the amount 
to be paid directly to Ms R would  be £310.28.
So I confirm  the findings in my second  provisional  decision, which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. And I am now directing that MBNA should pay a further £310.28 to Ms 
R. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  and directing that MBNA Limited pays 
Ms R a further £310.28 to compensate her fully for being out of pocket for the total PPI 
costs.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86314193Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about the compensation MBNA Limited (MBNA) has offered to settle her 
complaint about a mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy connected to her credit card.
background
Ms R complained to MBNA about a PPI policy  associated with her credit card which was opened in 
June 2000. MBNA agreed to uphold  the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered  Ms R 
compensation.
Ms R wasnt happy with compensation offered  and brought  her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator said what MBNA had offered was fair. Ms R wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman 
to consider the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2018 explaining why I had ultimately 
reached the same  outcome  as the adjudicator  but for slightly different reasons.  And I gave  both 
parties the opportunity to provide and additional  information.
MBNA has not provided any comments  or further information  in response to my provisional decision.
Ms R has provided some additional information and evidence about her debt to MBNA.
I have reconsidered all the evidence now available and have reached a slightly different outcome. So 
I am again giving both parties a chance to respond further by issuing this provisional  decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this case  and have now received additional information  which has 
affected my decision.
MBNA agreed to settle Ms Rs complaint  that PPI taken out with her credit card in June 2000 was 
mis-sold. My decision is only considering  whether the compensation  offered by MBNA to settle the 
complaint is fair.
MBNA reconstructed the credit card account to show what it would have looked  like if PPI had never  
been added. I set out in my first provisional decision a little detail about  how this was done. This 
reconstruction identified that a total of £379.41  was added to the account  in PPI premiums and £47.17 
of card rate interest was caused by these premiums. So in total the PPI had cost £426.58.
Neither party  has provided  any information  or disputed this is the amount the PPI actually added to 
the total credit card balance for the time it was active. The PPI ran from June 2000 to December 
2001. Ms R didnt make regular payments to her credit  card and in May 2002 the account was closed 
with an outstanding  balance of £5,118.77.
During the time the account  was active Ms R had actually paid £103.39 towards  the costs of the PPI. 
The remaining PPI costs  of £323.19 were  part of the debt of £5,118.77 that Ms R owed  to MBNA.  
Ref: DRN86314194As Ms R had repaid £103.39  of the PPI costs, she was out of pocket  for this amount and so MBNA 
included 8% simple interest as compensation for all the time Ms R was out of pocket and didnt have 
the use of this money.
However the remaining  £323.19  of the PPI costs was still in the debt Ms R owed to MBNA. MBNA 
sold this debt in June 2002 to a third party.  But it offered to refund this amount to Ms R as part of the 
costs of the PPI that were charged, even though it said it didnt know if Ms R had ever repaid it.. But 
MBNA didnt included  any 8% compensatory interest on this amount as it was never repaid to MBNA 
and there  was nothing to show when or if Ms R was ever out of pocket  for the £323.19 PPI cost.
When I issued my first provisional decision there was no evidence that the PPI cost of £323.19 was 
ever paid by Ms R. Ms R had told us she couldnt remember  ever being  chased for a debt or ever not 
repaying the debt so she must have done so at some point. But she had nothing to show she had 
repaid the debt in full, including the PPI, or when  this may have happened. 
So based on the information  available I said that it was fair for MBNA to refund the cost of the PPI in 
full and its offer of compensatory  interest, which was only on the PPI costs of £103.39 that Ms R had 
repaid to MBNA, was fair.
In response to my provisional decision Ms R has made contact with the third party who bought the 
debt from MBNA and has provided evidence from the third party. This shows the total debt it bought 
of £5,118.77 in June 2002 was repaid  by 9 small  monthly  payments and then cleared in full, by a 
cheque, in April 2003. So the full balance of the outstanding  credit card debt was cleared  in 2003.
This evidence  now indicates  that Ms R did pay the full costs of the PPI and was out of pocket  for the 
total cost from April 2003. Therefore I think  that it is fair she should get compensation for being  out of 
pocket for the whole amount  from April 2003. And based on the evidence I have now seen I dont 
think the offer that MBNA  made, based on the refund  of the costs of the PPI and 8% simple interest 
only on the £103.39 of the PPI costs is fair.
So I am intending  to tell MBNA to recalculate the compensation due to Ms R. But it should now take 
into account  that from April 2003 the full debt,  and so full costs of the PPI, had been paid in full by Ms 
R and she was out of pocket for the total PPI costs  from this date. I would ask MBNA  to provide its 
new calculation, in line with what I have outlined, in response to this provisional decision.
As I indicated  in my first provisional decision,  the issue raised by Ms R about MBNA refunding any 
commission it got on the PPI premiums  isnt of any relevance to this complaint.  Ms R is getting  back 
the full costs of the premiums she paid which includes  the commission amount that was part of the 
PPI premiums. 
MBNA made  its offer of compensation in April 2018 but I am not aware that any compensation  has yet 
been paid to Ms R. So in my final decision I would be directing that MBNA updates its offer to include 
8% simple interest on the amount Ms R has been  out of pocket  to the date of final payment of the 
compensation to Ms R.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, Im intending to tell 
MBNA Limited to recalculate its offer of compensation to include compensatory interest on the total 
PPI costs from April 2003, in addition  to its calculation for the compensation  due before this period.  
This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicted  at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8631419