K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs S says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RCS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I accept theres not much paperwork from so long ago. But from what we know  about 
how RBS sold these  policies, I think it most  likely made it clear that Mrs S didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I do understand why she cant remember 
this.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what shes said about her husbands  
savings. But those werent necessarily hers to spend  as they might  have been if they were 
in a joint account. So this point doesnt  change my decision.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN88823952But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8882395