K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limited  made various errors when he 
requested a partial surrender from a bond  he held with it. He initially wanted it to agree to 
reverse the surrender  so he could resubmit it in a more tax-efficient manner. As this is now 
too late he wants it to pay the tax he has unfairly incurred plus compensate him for the 
considerable stress this incident has caused  him.
background
In December 2017 Mr C told Old Mutual,  in a phone call, that he wanted  to make a partial 
surrender but in a way which didnt exceed  his 5% withdrawal allowance.  The call handler  
said he could not advise Mr C but promised to send him the relevant information so he could 
calculate how to do this himself.
He was then sent a form which outlined  two options:  a partial  surrender from each individual 
policy or a full surrender of individual policies. This form was colour-coded but Mr C printed it 
in black and white which obscured the options. Mr C said this led him to fill in the wrong  part 
of the form. He said he sent this form back to the person he had discussed things with earlier 
so he knew, and should have known, what his intentions  were i.e. to make a partial 
surrender in a way which avoided any chargeable gain.
In December 2018 Old Mutual  sent confirmation  that his surrender had incurred a taxable 
gain.
Mr C complained:
The form itself is confusing and unclear,  particularly if printed in black and white
Old Mutual should have sent two separate forms covering the two options. This 
would have avoided  any confusion
He made  clear to the staff member  that he was not seeking advice as he had made 
partial surrenders  in the past and understood the principle behind  them.  Instead he 
simply wanted to know the figures  as to what he could withdraw and where from
Its complaints process is fundamentally flawed as the individual he complained  about  
dealt with his complaint. This person also discussed the situation with HMRC without 
him being permitted  to be in on the call
He doesnt  believe HMRC was asked the right questions,  otherwise  it would  or might 
have agreed to allow the transaction  to be reversed
Old Mutual rejected Mr Cs complaint and said:
Mr C asked for confirmation of the precise amount he could withdraw, using the 5% 
penalty free allowance,  and its representative confirmed that we are not qualified to 
provide financial  advice and suggested  that he seek this independently
Our agent did however provide Mr C with the total contributions  and cumulative 
withdrawals up to and including 18 December 2017 and confirmed that he would 
send these details  by post so Mr C could   calculate the 5% penalty free allowance for 
that year
Mr C said that he did not want financial advice but some simple  arithmetic to avoid 
being charged by a financial  adviser
Its agent confirmed  that the estimated calculations showed he would able to withdraw 
circa £50,000, without  incurring any tax charges, but reiterated  that we were not able 
Ref: DRN87207132to calculate the exact amount, something  which would be deemed  as financial advice 
if we did it
Mr C was informed that in order to facilitate a partial withdrawal request, we would 
require a completed Withdrawal/Closure form which  was emailed to him the same 
day (via a link)
It did not accept that the form was unclear, even if printed in black and white; and 
said that Mr C signed  and returned  it, and it was therefore required to process his 
specific instruction
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld.
She accepted that the form may not have been particularly clear when reprinted in black and 
white but felt there was sufficient information for Mr C to question things with Old Mutual if he 
was not completely sure which withdrawal method to choose.
Overall, she did not feel Old Mutual  had done anything substantially  wrong.
Mr C did not agree, and said:
The investigator failed  to vigorously pursue the question as to whether Old Mutual did 
anything wrong, and whether its practices could  be improved upon. Instead  she 
simply regurgitated its responses
Old Mutual was perfectly capable of calculating the 5% withdrawal figure, and it 
eventually did this. This doesnt constitute advice
The investigator was inaccurate when describing  how he printed out the form; he did 
not click on the link first but simply printed it off
She did not ask for a copy  of the form in colour.  Has she done  so, shed have seen 
that the partial surrender  section was in an inappropriate light green colour
 If she had then printed  it on a black and white printer  shed have  understood why he 
was complaining about this issue
He has never complained that Old Mutual was wrong to process his request as he 
had mistakenly made it. He accepts he made  an error  and clearly  it was required to 
do this
Instead his complaint  is that it was at least partially responsible for his error, and 
could and should have acted promptly when  the chargeable gain became known in 
sorting this out or persuading HMRC to rectify  it
HMRC told him that Old Mutual  could  have done  this
He has made various suggestions as to how Old Mutual can and should change its 
processes including complaints handling; the investigator ignored these along  with 
his complaint that Old Mutual  refuse to change  the person  dealing with his case 
when he explicitly asked it to
He wants Old Mutual to pay the tax (over £5,000) plus £10,000 for consequential  
loss, damage and trouble and upset
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I fully understand Mr Cs frustration at whats occurred as this tax charge was, from 
what Ive read, avoidable.  I also accept that he recognises that he filled in the wrong section 
of the form and that Old Mutual was then obliged to carry out his instructions. What then 
Ref: DRN87207133followed was extremely unfortunate, including the fact that it proved impossible to reverse 
this transaction.
But its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide whether 
a business clearly did something  wrong  or made  a mistake, not whether it might have done  
things differently. And even if it did, whether this mistake led to the complainant suffering a 
financial loss.
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that Old Mutual  
did do something wrong.
Firstly, I do not think it is even partially responsible for the error  he made. I have downloaded 
a copy of the form in question  in its original colour  format and printed it, directly, in black  and 
white. I do not agree that the form is unclear let alone unreadable. In my view this suggests 
Mr C was wholly responsible for the error.
Secondly, I have seen  no persuasive evidence that HMRC would have agreed to a reversal 
of this surrender  12 months on from when Mr C made it. In my experience it rarely agrees to 
these types of requests and only where there  is clear evidence  that a business made a 
mistake and incorrectly carried  out a customers instructions.
So even if I felt Old Mutual might  have handled Mr Cs request  more quickly  or differently or I 
do not believe HMRC  would have agreed to his request.
I am also not persuaded, from the evidence I have seen, that Old Mutuals processes or 
practices are clearly wrong or discriminatory.
I note that Mr C is very unhappy with how it dealt with his complaint, including  ignoring his 
request to have a different  member  of staff deal with his appeal  to HMRC. But I am not 
persuaded that it did anything fundamentally wrong.  More importantly, complaints  handling 
is not a regulated activity within the definition outlined in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook so this is not something, generally-speaking, which  this service is able to 
adjudicate on.
Finally, I note that Mr C has made  various  complaints about the investigator who initially 
considered his case. These have or are being dealt with by the appropriate channels  within  
this service. I am not persuaded that these  impact on the merits of his complaint  so have not 
addressed them in this decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8720713