K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that, when  their mortgage endowment policies matured between 
2011 and 2018, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt claim the maturity funds under 
the assignments it held and pay the monies  off the mortgage debt. Because  it didnt, they 
believe they have  paid more mortgage interest than they should have.
background
In 2011 Mr and Mrs M had existing endowment policies. They  took out a new mortgage with 
RBS and paid £150 to have each of the six endowments assigned  to RBS. They assumed 
this meant  that when  the policies matured,  RBS would immediately claim the policy 
proceeds and pay it off the mortgage.
In December 2012 the product provider  of the first endowment policy  to mature wrote to 
Mr and Mrs M about it. It told them it had two notices of assignment on the policy  RBS and 
another lender. It explained  it couldnt  pay out the maturity proceeds because  of this and it 
needed confirmation of the mortgage  account  the money should be paid to and a letter of no 
further interest from the other lender. Alternatively, if they no longer  had a mortgage, it asked 
for a letter of no further interest from both lenders so it could pay the money direct to them. It 
doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs M took any action at that time.
A second product provider contacted Mr M in March  2014 shortly  before an endowment 
policy with it was due to mature.  It enclosed the documentation that needed to be completed 
in order for the proceeds of the policy to be claimed  and a frequently asked questions 
(FAQ) document, to assist  him in doing  so. On 26 April 2014 the product provider chased Mr 
M as the forms hadnt been returned.  
On 20 May 2014 RBS wrote to the product provider, having been  approached about the 
maturity, and claimed the proceeds of the policy. The necessary paperwork was exchanged 
and the maturity proceeds were given to RBS and it paid £11,023.19 off the mortgage. 
In June 2016 the second product provider again contacted  Mr M to tell him that the third of 
their endowment policies  was maturing shortly. It provided him with the documents that 
needed to be completed to claim the proceeds of the policy and an FAQ document  to help 
them complete the claim. In July 2016  the product provider chased  Mr M because it hadnt  
heard anything back from him. RBS claimed  the proceeds of the policy in February 2018.
In May 2017  the second product provider wrote  this time to Mrs M to tell her about the 
maturity of the fourth of the assigned policies. It provided her with the documents  needed  to 
claim the maturity proceeds  and a FAQ document to assist  her in doing  so. The product 
provider chased  Mrs M in June 2017 as it hadnt had the documentation  back.  It appears  
Mrs M completed  and returned the claim form in October 2017. Mrs M confirmed the policy  
was assigned to RBS in that document. It doesnt  appear the product provider took any 
action when it received  the completed forms. RBS wrote  to the product provider in February 
2018 to claim the proceeds of the policy.
In November 2017 another policy in Mrs Ms name was maturing with the second  product 
provider. It wrote to her with the relevant documents to be completed. In December 2017 it 
chased Mrs M as it hadnt had the documentation  returned. In February 2018 RBS wrote  to 
the product provider  to claim the maturity  proceeds.
Ref: DRN89101092In November 2017 Mr and Mrs M contacted RBS about the proceeds  from the policy which  
matured at the end of December 2012.  They had recently realised  the money hadnt been 
credited to their account. They enclosed a copy of the letter from the first product provider 
from 2012 and asked RBS to send  the product provider whatever information  was required 
so that the proceeds could be released.  
Mrs M also wrote to RBS in November 2017  about one of the 2017 maturities.  She asked 
that it liaise with the product provider to have the capital released. Mrs M has said she didnt 
receive any response to that letter. 
The proceeds from the 2012, 2016 and both 2017 maturities were received from the product 
provider in February 2018. The total amount exceeded the mortgage debt, so the surplus 
was refunded to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M complained to RBS. It explained the process for policy  maturities on assigned  
policies and confirmed  the only policy it had been  approached about before Mr and Mrs M 
contacted in at the end of 2017 was the one that matured in 2014. It didnt uphold the 
complaint and Mr and Mrs M referred  it to us.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
hadnt seen any evidence RBS had done  anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept  her 
conclusions. They said each time a policy from the second product  provider  matured they 
were sent a payment release form, which they completed and returned to the product 
provider. When they questioned the product provider, they were told each  time it needed  a 
letter of authority from RBS to release  the funds.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will deal with this complaint in two parts 
 the issues regarding the 2012 maturity of the policy with the first product provider and then 
the later maturities of policies with the second product provider. 
In 2012 the policy Mr and Mrs M held with the first product provider had two notices of 
assignment attached  to it. An assignment gives a lender a financial interest in the policy. In 
such a situation  the product provider wouldnt be able to pay out the proceeds of the policy 
until it had received confirmation from the parties involved that clarified which  one had the 
legal right to the money. 
As such,  the product provider wrote to Mr and Mrs M to tell them about the problem  and 
asked them to contact  their current/former  lenders  and get that clarification. They dont 
appear to have done so until late 2017.  In light of this, I cant hold RBS responsible  for the 
delay in the funds from this policy  being paid off their mortgage. Even had RBS tried to claim  
the funds, until Mr and Mrs M had arranged for a letter  of no further interest from their earlier 
lender, the product provider wouldnt have  been able to pay the policy proceeds out.
Before moving on to consider the situation  regarding the policies with the second product 
provider, I would like to explain  how maturities of policies  usually work. When  a policy  is due 
to mature, the product provider will send out instructions on how to claim the proceeds  and 
details of any necessary  documentation to the policyholders or the assignee if there is one. 
Due to the assignment  details often not being  up to date (as is shown  by Mr and Mrs Ms 
Ref: DRN89101093policy with the first product provider), providers are often unsure whether assignments  they 
hold are still valid. 
Whilst in the 1980s and early 1990s it was common  for mortgage endowment policies to be 
assigned to a mortgage lender for a domestic property  that is no longer the case.  However, 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage is slightly  different  as it is a commercial mortgage and it is more 
likely for a lender  to wants security for such mortgages. It would also not be usual  practice 
for a lender,  and less so for a commercial  one, to collect on any such  security  unless 
prompted to do so. 
In this case, the second product provider corresponded with the Mr or Mrs M direct and not 
with any party that might have an assignment over the policy proceeds.  In the FAQ 
document, which was there to assist consumers  in completing the forms, it explained that if 
the policy was assigned, the forms should be passed to the assignee to be completed. In 
other words, Mr or Mrs M shouldnt have completed the forms and returned  them  as they 
have said they did. They should have passed  them to RBS for it to claim the proceeds of the 
policies. It seems likely that this is what happened  in 2014, as RBS has said it was prompted 
to claim the proceeds, but the maturity documents were sent to Mr M. 
So it seems  that the reason Mr and Mrs Ms 2016  and 2017 policy  proceeds  werent  
collected by RBS was due confusion  over process.  Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have 
realised they needed  to pass  the claim forms to RBS to prompt  it to claim the maturity 
proceeds of the policies.  Without being informed the policies were maturing, RBS didnt 
receive the prompt it needed  to claim the policy proceeds. This prompt was given to it by 
Mr and Mrs M when  they wrote to it at the end of 2017 and it dealt with claiming the 
proceeds at that time.
Whilst I know that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I cant  find that RBS did anything wrong 
in respect to claiming  the policy proceeds  from the 2012, 2016 and 2017 maturities.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 November  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8910109