K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the charges LeasePlan UK Limited added at the end of his hire 
agreement were applied  unfairly.
background
Mr H had a hire agreement for a car with LeasePlan. When  the agreement ended  LeasePlan 
collected the car and told Mr H that it had found damage which was considered beyond fair 
wear and tear, and that it had an odour which meant it would need to be valeted. It asked 
Mr H to pay a charge to cover the cost for the damage and valet.  
Mr H disputed the fairness of those  charges.  He raised a complaint which LeasePlan upheld 
in part. It accepted that one of the charges  had not been applied  correctly, so it removed that 
specific charge, but said the remaining charges were correct. 
As he didnt  agree, Mr H complained to the British Vehicle  Renting  and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). The BVRLA is the trade body that oversees the vehicle rental  and leasing sector, 
and issues guidelines on fair wear and tear and whats chargeable damage. It subsequently 
found that charges LeasePlan had ask Mr H to pay were justified, so it didnt uphold  his 
complaint. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair, so he raised  a complaint with our service. But our investigator 
didnt think that we should look at the complaint, because the BVRLA  had already 
considered it. 
Mr H said that the BVRLA was not independent as it is paid by LeasePlan, and that it didnt 
look into what had happened  and just accepted what LeasePlan had said. He said the car 
didnt have damage which fell outside of the description of fair wear and tear and that the 
odour LeasePlan found came from an air freshener  which it had given him. 
The case  was passed to me to decide. As I disagreed with the conclusions our investigator 
reached, I issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said;
I dont think itd be appropriate to dismiss this complaint. I say this because whilst it appears 
that the BVRLA has considered the documentary evidence Mr H and LeasePlan provided,  it 
also told Mr H that it couldnt  comment on verbal  or anecdotal evidence.  Our scope to 
investigate what happened is slightly  wider  than that; I can, for example, consider Mr Hs 
testimony about whats happened as evidence. So, I intend to consider the merits of Mr Hs 
complaint and Ill explain my provisional decision on it. 
Mr Hs contract  with LeasePlan  was a regulated hire agreement  which  our service is able to 
consider a complaint about. The terms and conditions  which  accompanied the agreement 
said that when  Mr H returned the car, he would need to pay LeasePlan the cost to repair  
damage to the car which exceeded fair wear and tear. So, Im satisfied it was allowed to 
charge Mr H for damage  to the car, but I need  to determine whether it was fair to in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN84125952Mr H has disputed the charges LeasePlan added for a number of reasons. To begin with, he 
says that he was not allowed to observe the inspection and was simply asked  to sign a 
document when  the car was collected. This could have been the case, but ultimately 
LeasePlan has provided  in my opinion   sufficient photographic evidence that the damage 
it charged for was present. So, even if I accept that Mr H was not made  aware of the 
inspection findings  at the point it was carried out, it doesnt mean  that LeasePlan shouldnt 
charge for it. 
Mr H also said that the damage charged  for may not have been present at the point the car 
was returned,  but even  if it was, it didnt exceed fair wear and tear. And he says he was told 
that the inspector had found  scratches  on the car at the point he was asked to sign the 
report. I agree that it wouldve been useful  for LeasePlan to have shared details of the 
damage it had recorded  before asking Mr H to sign the report,  to avoid a situation such as 
this. However, whilst I accept that Mr H may not have noticed  or been aware of some 
aspects of the damage, Im not persuaded its likely that the damage was caused after the 
car was collected from him. 
Regarding Mr Hs assertion that the damage LeasePlan charged for doesnt  exceed fair 
wear and tear; I dont  find it necessary to go into great detail here. I say this because Mr H 
has already had a perspective on whether the charges  are justified by the BVRLA, and we 
would usually refer to the guidance it issues regarding fair wear  and tear in cases such as 
this. For the avoidance of doubt though, and whilst we take industry guidance into account,  
ultimately Ill base my decision on what I consider to be fair and reasonable.  So, whether or 
not the damage LeasePlan  charged for is specifically mentioned in industry guidance,  I need  
to decide whether they would likely have a material effect on the cars value, and if it was fair 
and reasonable to charge  for it.
Ive carefully considered  the pictures of the damage  to the car. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that the charges LeasePlan applied in respect of physical damage  to the car  due to various 
chips and scratches  were applied  fairly,  in line with the relevant  industry  guidance as well 
as LeasePlans  return standards  which accompanied Mr Hs agreement. Additionally, taking 
into account that the car was new when  supplied to Mr H, and three years  old when 
returned, its fair to conclude that the damage would have a material impact on the cars 
value, and its therefore reasonable for LeasePlan to apply  the charges it has.
 
Lastly, Mr H has also disputed a charge  LeasePlan applied  to remedy an odour in the car. 
Hes suggested that it was due to an air freshener provided my LeasePlan. The inspection 
doesnt go into detail  regarding the nature of the odour, simply referring  to it as a smell.  
However, I think its fair to assume  that the odour was of an undesirable nature as it 
otherwise likely wouldnt have been  noted.
Unlike physical damage, an odour isnt something thats straightforward to evidence.  Whilst 
Mr H signed the report which  documented the odour,  Im aware he disputes  being presented 
with its findings  before he signed it. In any case, and significantly, from what hes said it 
appears Mr H accepts  the car featured an odour  he gave  an explanation for its presence.  
On balance, I think it unlikely that an air freshener LeasePlan gave Mr H caused  the odour 
the inspector documented  one wouldnt normally associate an air freshener with an 
undesirable odour that needs to be removed. I think this is something that could affect  the 
cars value  and LeasePlan was therefore  justified in apply a charge for it.
Ref: DRN84125953LeasePlan and Mr H responded. LeasePlan didnt have anything  further  do add, but Mr H 
did. He made a number  of points. He said;
-The car had been  valeted shortly before it was returned and the odour came from an 
air freshener supplied by LeasePlan. 
-The scratches described did not match  those  in the fair wear  and tear report.
-The car was returned  with 20,000 fewer  miles than permitted  which wouldve added 
to its value but wasnt taken into account; and
-He was not given the opportunity to repair the damaged paintwork, and he wouldve 
done so if allowed.
Mr H also subsequently  told us that LeasePlan had contacted  him to ask for payment  in 
relation to this case because wed issued  our final decision, although it agreed to put any 
collection action on hold.  He also told us about  other occasions hed dealt with LeasePlan 
and questioned its care of vehicles, in support of his assertion that LeasePlan had caused  
the scratches hed been charged for.
The case  has been passed back to me to issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points Mr H has made  in response to my provisional decision havent  caused me to 
change my mind on this case. Ill explain why.
It sounds like theres  been some  confusion about  whether  our investigation had been  
concluded when  I issued my provisional  decision. In any case, whether LeasePlan should or 
shouldnt have asked  Mr H to pay any sums  pending our final decision, from what Mr H has 
said it appears that LeasePlan has agreed not to take any action  until I issue  my final 
decision. So, I make  no finding on this.
The points Mr H has made  about  other occasions  hes dealt with LeasePlan and its 
approach to taking  care of cars arent  specific to this case.  Its not my place to make  a 
finding on whether  or not LeasePlan takes  care of its cars and I therefore do not find that this 
adds plausibility to Mr Hs assertion that LeasePlan  couldve  caused the scratches  that hes 
been charged for. I havent been persuaded that LeasePlan caused any damage to the car 
this complaint relates to when it was returned, so what Mr H has said hasnt  persuaded me 
otherwise.
I dont doubt that Mr H had the car valeted  shortly before returning it. However, as my 
provisional decision explained, Im persuaded that the inspection  of the car found an odour 
which likely didnt come  from an air freshener LeasePlan provided. So, I think  that charge 
was justified.
With reference to the scratches to the cars  paintwork,  I think I went into sufficient detail in 
my provisional decision on this point; to reiterate, Im satisfied that LeasePlan adequately 
demonstrated that the charges it applied  for damage to the cars paintwork  were justified. 
Ref: DRN84125954Mr Hs contract  with LeasePlan  permitted him to do a certain number of miles per year. Mr H 
may not have used  the car to travel the extent of that which he was allowed, but that doesnt 
mean that the facility to do so wasnt available  to him. Generally speaking,  a car with a lower 
mileage may have a higher value than an equivalent  model with a higher mileage, but I dont 
think that means LeasePlan wasnt justified in charging Mr H for damage to the car beyond  
fair wear and tear because this would affect  the cars value regardless of the mileage 
covered.
Lastly, Mr H says he wasnt allowed the opportunity to repair  the car. However, I disagree, 
Mr H could have arranged  for necessary repairs before returning the car, and I dont think 
there was an obligation  for LeasePlan to allow him to carry out repairs after the car had been 
inspected and returned.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8412595