K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about difficulties shes experienced when attempting  to obtain her deposit  
boxes held by TSB Bank plc and the way its handled them and dealt with her.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
When in branch TSB staff didnt identify Mrs R and only requested she sign for the 
boxes. She wasnt allocated a private  room to comfortably check her valuables and 
Mrs R feels a member  of staff shouldve lowered his voice  to a more  suitable level as 
other members of the public were in the branch.  
CCTV isnt available  and he cant say that a loud bang Mrs R says she heard before 
receiving her boxes was the safe door closing as TSB suggests, rather than a 
member of staff dropping  them  as she suggests.  On the available  evidence he cant 
say TSB has damaged  the boxes or items. And the presence of tape on them may 
not be down to TSB. He cant say the condition of the boxes was poorer when Mrs R 
recovered them than when they were  given to TSB.
TSB has offered Mrs R £50 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
but that isnt enough.  A payment of £100  is fair. Thats in addition to the £50 TSB has 
also offered to cover Mrs Rs expenses.
Mrs R has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mrs R now says TSB damaged her boxes and lost valuable paperwork from one of them. 
But TSB says it had no information at the time about  a box being broken  and any items 
stolen. It says that if true, the branch  manager  wouldve mentioned  it a lot sooner in the initial 
complaint Mrs R raised. Its cast doubt on the truth of this claim. Theres also no CCTV 
available to show whether a staff member dropped and damaged the boxes as Mrs R has 
suggested.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  on balance  that the boxes  were damaged and no proof of the 
theft or loss of items  allegedly  contained in them. So, I dont think  I can fairly  or reasonably  
ask TSB to do or pay anything for this. 
Ref: DRN81831882Its clear that TSB couldve  dealt  with Mrs R better  than it did at times. In particular it doesnt 
seem to have dealt with her particularly sensitively, securely or appropriately in the branch.
TSB has acknowledged it caused  Mrs R some  distress  and inconvenience  and offered to 
pay her £50 compensation  for that. But I agree with the investigator  that this isnt quite 
enough. TSB also offered to pay £50 towards her expenses which  I think is reasonable.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a total 
payment of £100  compensation  for any distress  and inconvenience caused by TSB is fair. In 
addition it should  pay her £50 towards her expenses. This makes  a total payment to her of 
£150.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right TSB Bank plc should, if it hasnt done  so already, 
pay Mrs R the total sum of £150.  
TSB must pay this compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mrs R accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If TSB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8183188