K821x#15complaint
T, a limited company, complains that myPOS  Europe Ltd gave it incorrect information about 
the type of cards that could be used  for payments and reduced  its payment limit.
background
T entered into an agreement with myPOS so that it could take card payments online from its 
customers. T says that one of its customers was unable to make a payment with a card from 
a particular card issuer. T says that it was never  told that it could not take payments  from this 
issuer. When  it tried to set up a payment for a different  customer  it received a message 
saying that its account  limit with myPOS had been  reduced to 300 Euros. It had not been 
told about this and myPOS later agreed to increase this to 800 Euros.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  in part. She said that:
-myPOS had made comments  about  the complaint  but had not provided any evidence  
to support them.
-T said that it believed it could not take payments from a particular card issuer  online - 
only if it had a payment terminal. myPOS says only that T would only have needed to 
make arrangements  to take payments from this card issuer if it had a terminal.
-She did not have  any information about what the customer of T saw about a payment 
attempted with that card issuer.  So she was not able to hold myPOS responsible  for 
T not being  able to receive the payment.
-T had received  an email on 10 August 2018 from myPOS stating that the daily limit 
on the account had been increased to 800 Euros. This message was repeated  on 17 
August 2018.  This suggested  that there was a lower limit on 8 August  2018 
preventing T setting  up a payment link.
-myPOS was entitled to impose or change limits but had not informed T about  this. So 
she thought it had been caused  inconvenience and should be paid compensation of 
£100.
-myPOS had not issued a final response to Ts complaint. But it had logged  this and T 
was not prevented from bringing this complaint to this service.
myPOS did not agree. It said that as T did not have a payment terminal  it would not be in a 
position where [the card issuers] cards  could be refused as there  is no device to reject them. 
It said that the payment links that T had sent to its customers had now expired and as they 
had not clicked  on the links no payment was made. It disputes that there is a limit on the 
account of 300 Euro.
T also did not agree.  It said that it had been given incorrect  information  about taking 
payments from one card issuer. It had phoned  myPOS  several times between  24 and 28 
April 2018 and been given contradictory  information. It had lost a sale and the related profit.  
Later because a limit had been applied it was unable  to take a payment from a customer  and 
again lost profit on that sale. T is unhappy  at the award weve made when  compared  to the 
case fee that myPOS  will pay this service  for dealing with the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81708772It is disappointing that myPOS has not provided  evidence to support  its statements. Having  
said that T has been free to provide  any evidence it wants to support what it says.  I am not 
clear for example why it did not have a copy of the merchant agreement with myPOS which  
might have helped  to clarify which types  of card could be accepted  online for payments.
T sent payment links for £2,790.72 in April 2018 and for £850 in July 2018. Neither of those 
payments was successful.  I note that myPOS said in an email  to T on 9 August 2018 that 
previous attempts to make those payments were declined by the bank issuer  of the 
cardholders. It also went on to say that in order to set proper limits  it needed further 
information. T responded in an email that day that the first payment was declined  because of 
the type of card and the second because the customer did not have a security  code.  The 
size of those payments  indicated that there wasnt a lower limit at that time. On 10 August 
2018 myPOS wrote to T and said we have increased the daily limit up  to 800 Euros  And 
on 17 August 2018 that we  can revise  the limit after a certain  period of flawless  
transaction history  with myPOS.
T says that in calls with myPOS in April 2018 over a period of five days it was first told that a 
certain type of card was generally blocked online for security  reasons. It says it later 
received an email saying  that myPOS did not accept such  payments through  the online link 
and only through  a physical payment terminal. The comments in response to this complaint 
that myPOS have made are unclear. But I cant fairly resolve what  T was told when it took 
the agreement  and whether or not myPOS said it would  be able to take payments from this 
card issuer  online. And Im unable to find on the evidence that the reason the payment was 
declined was because  it was not able to be taken at all with this sort of card.  It is also 
possible that the card issuer declined to make the payment as it seems  could be likely with 
this card issuer. 
I am though clear  that a limit was applied to Ts account. Ive no reason to think that it wasnt 
300 Euros as T says. myPOS has indicated that this was due to the previous  two failed 
payments. And as the investigator says under the terms and conditions  it can set limits. That 
caused inconvenience to T as it could not take the payment from its customer. It seems that 
even the increased  limit of 799 Euros was below  the figure of £799 it was due from this 
customer. But in any event I dont consider I can reasonably hold myPOS liable for the loss 
of the sale as myPOS  took action it was entitled  to. And also T has not made clear what it 
would have done had it known about the limit in advance to ensure that the sale was still 
made.
I am deciding compensation on the circumstances  of this complaint  and taking into account 
our published  guidelines. Those are the relevant  factors here. And I agree that the 
compensation suggested by the investigator is reasonable to reflect the inconvenience to T.
Ref: DRN81708773my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require myPOS Europe  Ltd to pay T 
£100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8170877