K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains  that he was misled about  the terms for making overpayments to the
personal  contract purchase ("PCP")  he has with Volkswagen  Financial  Services  (UK) 
Limited  ("VWFS") for new car.   
background 
In April 2018 Mr H visited a dealership as he was interested in acquiring a new car. 
There  was an offer of a £2,000 discount  on a particular  make  if it was purchased  
via a PCP.
Mr H says he spoke with the salesperson  and asked about the size of the deposit he 
could  pay and whether he could  make overpayments  on the agreement  to reduce  its 
term. Mr H says he was told that the most he could put down as a deposit was 
£8,500 but that once the agreement  was "live" he could make overpayments. Mr H 
says his intention  was to make  payments  off the balloon  payment  due at the end of 
the agreement  so that this was cleared  by the end of the agreement  saving the 
interest costs.
Mr H signed a three  year PCP having originally been offered a four year plan. A few 
days  after the inception  of the financial  agreement  Mr H sent a payment  of 
around  £11,500  and then in both May and June made payments  of £300.
VWFS contacted  Mr H and said that it couldn't  accept these payments  against the 
agreement.  It said that under the terms of the agreement  if Mr H made any 
overpayments  he could  eithe r choose to use those payments  to reduce  the length  of 
the agreement  or to reduce  the monthl y payments  to a minimum  of £50 per month. 
VWFS said the overpayments  couldn't  be put towards the optional final payment  that 
fell due at the end of the agreement.
Mr H complained  to VWFS that he had been told he could make  overpayments  and 
that the agreement  didn't make it clear that he wasnt able to make  payments  and 
reduce  the optional  final payment  early.
VWFS didn't  uphold Mr H's complaint.  It said it was unable to allocate partial 
payments  to the optional final payment  and that this was in line with the signed  
agreement.
Mr H complained  to this service. Mr H said that the financial agreement wasn't clear  that 
overpayments couldnt be allocated to the optional final payment  and that this was unfair 
and should have been spelled out. He said he considered  it was unlawful for VWFS  to 
force him to pay interest  on money that had in part been paid. He had been forced  to 
use his savings  to clear the full amount owing  under the agreement  which  he hadn't 
want to do.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that Mr H's complaint should be upheld. He said the 
Consumer Credit  (Agreement) Regulations  2010 set out what information must be 
included  in regulated consumer agreements. That is that there must be a statement 
Ref: DRN83099922providing the details  of the consumer's right to make early repayments in full or in part 
and the procedure  to follow. He said he was satisfied VWFS  had provided the relevant 
information.
Our adjudicator said the agreement was also regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 and that under the Consumer Credit Directive's amendment  of the Consumer 
Credit Act it set out that a partial early settlement reduces the amount  outstanding on 
the loan.  So any additional payments made would either reduce the length of the loan 
or the instalment size or a combination of the two.
Our adjudicator said Mr H had signed the pre-contractual checklist indicating he had 
read or been provided with an explanation  about how interest would be charged should 
he wish to settle the agreement early. Mr H had also ticked  the box to say he'd had the 
opportunity to ask questions about the finance  agreement.
Our adjudicator said it would have been reasonable for Mr H to have asked how his 
partial  repayments would have been applied to the outstanding balance. Mr H had 
signed the agreement to show  that he was happy  with its terms and condition.
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicator's view. He said that the agreement didn't set out 
that there was a minimum amount that would have to remain  outstanding when 
partial  repayments were  made. And he had been told by the salesperson  that there  
were no restrictions as to how much he could repay.
Mr H said the agreement  was silent that any capital  repayments wouldn't be put 
towards the optional final payment and that this money would either be refunded  or put 
into a suspense  account which meant he would be paying interest on money he had 
not borrowed.
As the parties couldn't agree the complaint  has been passed to me. I issued  a provisional  
decision  along  the following  lines.
I'd seen that Mr H entered  into a PCP in April  2018.  This agreement was for 36 months 
and set out that for 35 months there  would be set monthly payments of around  £250 but 
in the 36th month  a payment  of £13,000 was payable. This payment is often referred  to 
as the "balloon  payment" and is based on the guaranteed minimum value for the car at 
the end of the agreement.  Mr H could choose  to either pay the balloon payment at the 
end of the agreement  and keep the car or not pay it and return it.
However, it was Mr H's intention to own the car and he had wanted  to make  partial 
payments in order  to clear  the credit under the agreement faster and so save  on the 
interest. Mr H said that he told the salesperson what  he was planning to do with the 
repayments and at no time was he advised  that there  would be restrictions in how any 
partial repayments would be allocated.
While I don't  know what was said between Mr H and the salesperson I was satisfied that 
Mr H was clear  about what he had wanted to do regarding making  partial payments  as 
I've seen thats  exactly what he then did.
Under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) a lender like VWFS may 
be liable for what's said in pre-contract discussions by the dealer. Mr H said that the 
Ref: DRN83099923dealer  misrepresented how partial  repayments  would be applied and this wasn't set 
out clearly in the agreement.
I needed to be satisfied  that the dealer probably  told Mr H something  that wasn't true 
and that that untrue statement on its own induced him to take out this PCP.  But I should 
make it clear  at the outset that, even if I accepted there'd been a misrepresentation, the 
appropriate remedy would be to put Mr H back in the position he would've  been in if the 
misrepresentation hadn't  been made.
Taking into account  the evidence I accepted that it was likely there was an untrue 
statement by the dealership as to there being no restrictions  on making  overpayments.  
And I was reasonably sure that the statement from the dealer  was an important factor in 
Mr H taking out the PCP.  I didn't  think he would have been  aware that he couldn't make 
payments towards the balloon payment  from reading the terms and conditions. If Mr H 
had been told that there was a limit to the amount he could overpay then I think it was 
unlikely he would have  proceeded with the PCP.
Looking at fair redress for Mr H's complaint I'd seen that he had requested£1 000 was paid 
as compensation  to reflect the loss of interest on his savings. As set out above  the usual 
remedy for misrepresentation is to put the consumer back in the position they would have 
been if they hadn't taken  out the agreement. That is return the car, have  any deposit  
repaid and the agreement cancelled.  However  I didn't think  that would be a workable  or 
fair solution  here as Mr H had now fully paid for the car and ended the agreement.  So if he 
were to return the car there would need  to be deductions from the amount hed paid for it 
to cover its usage by him and for any wear  and tear.
I agreed that compensation  would be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances but I 
didn't  agree with Mr H as to the amount  that VWFS should pay. I appreciated Mr H will 
have lost the opportunity to earn interest on his savings but I'd also seen  that with the 
PCP came  a £2,000 reduction  on the price as an incentive towards purchasing the car. 
This amount  wouldn't have been  deducted  from the car's cost if Mr H had taken out a 
hire purchase agreement instead. I thought it was fair that I take this into account.
So looking  at the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr H for the misrepresentation 
about how any overpayments would be used  that compensation of £250  would be fair and 
reasonable and I intended to partially  uphold his complaint.
VWFS has agreed with my provisional view. Mr H has asked that I review the amount of 
compensation. He says he spent a lot of time having  to deal with his complaint. He also 
says he was disappointed about the state  of the car when he collected it from the 
dealership and its failure to properly invoice him for the paint protection hed also 
purchased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen from an email sent by Mr H to this service that he had complained directly to the 
dealership about the service hed received and that he had been satisfied as to how it had 
dealt with this. He also said that the invoice matter was something he was dealing  with 
Ref: DRN83099924outside of his complaint. So I dont think I can fairly look at any other issues than the one he 
raised in his complaint to this service  which was about being misled as to how overpayments  
would be allocated under  the agreement.
Looking at that matter  I still think that the award  of £250 compensation is fair when 
considering the impact  of not being able to pay off the agreement in the way hed planned.  I 
appreciate Mr H has had to take the time to complain but I think  thats reflected in the award. 
This complaint hasnt  interfered with Mr H being  able to use the car that hed chosen and 
hed also benefitted  from a reduction in the cars cost by taking out the PCP agreement.
So for the reasons set out I havent changed  my view. Im partially  upholding Mr Hs 
complaint and ask VWFS  to pay him compensation of £250. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to pay Mr H £250 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by having the ability to make  overpayments  under the PCP 
misrepresented to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8309992