K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
background 
Miss As car was struck by another whilst it was parked. She later made a claim and 
Advantage offered her £3,500 less the policy excess in settlement for the total loss of her 
car. Miss A was unhappy with the way Advantage handled her claim and it offered her £100 
compensation for its poor level of communication and providing incorrect  information. But 
Miss A was unhappy  with that.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He explained 
that Miss A would have to pay her policy excess  and how this was calculated. He didnt think  
Advantage was responsible for delays in the claim as Advantage couldnt  act on it before 
Miss A decided to make a claim. He thought Miss A wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under 
her policy and that Advantage had done  more than it needed to by providing  one. 
The investigator thought Advantage had to pay Miss A the market value of her car at the 
time of loss and he thought its offer was reasonable. But he thought Advantage  had given 
Miss A some  unclear and incorrect information. He thought it should pay Miss A £100 further 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused.
Advantage agreed to do this. But Miss A replied that Advantage had told her that it would get 
back her excess  and the amount she had to pay back to her finance company. She thought  
shed been misled and poorly guided in making  her first ever claim. She said she was about  
£1,500 out of pocket because of the accident.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss As frustration and unhappiness  with the claim process.  Her car was 
hit by a drunk driver who was later convicted.  But the result of this has left Miss A out of 
pocket because she had to pay her policy excess, because  Advantages settlement didnt  
cover the amount she owed to the finance company, and because she had to pay a deposit 
for a new car. 
I can see that Miss A thinks that Advantage should cover  these  losses,  but I dont agree. 
Miss As insurance policy with Advantage is a contract. This sets out the terms and 
conditions for each side and the level of cover Advantage provides. Our approach in cases 
like this is to consider whether the insurers acted  fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
As the investigator  has explained, the policy has an excess which is the amount that Miss A 
must pay when making a claim. In some cases,  this amount can be recovered from the other  
insurer, but this isnt guaranteed. In order to make a claim,  Miss A must  agree to pay her 
policy excess. So I cant say that Advantage should  waive this. However,  I can see that 
Advantage has told the other insurer that Miss A wants her excess  refunded. 
Ref: DRN80404172The excess  amount was comprised of a voluntary excess and an aged-based additional 
excess. Miss A thought  she shouldnt pay the latter as she wasnt  in the car at the time. But I 
dont agree as I think she was in charge of the car having parked it. 
Miss A said that shed  been told on several occasions that this excess  would be waived. She 
asked that I listen  to recordings of the calls she had with Advantage. But I dont think  this is 
necessary as Advantage has already agreed that it gave Miss A unclear and incorrect 
information during  the claim process. Its also agreed  that its call handling was poor.  And its 
agreed with the investigators view that it gave Miss A unclear information  about a claims 
management company.  
When a business  makes mistakes, as Advantage has agreed it has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position as far as its possible  to do so. And we consider the 
impact the mistake had. I can see that Miss A had to spend  a long time on calls,  she had to 
chase progress on the claim, and she was disappointed that her excess wasnt  waived or 
recovered. Advantage has agreed to pay Miss A £200 in total for the trouble and upset 
caused by its level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in 
similar circumstances. I dont require Advantage to increase this. 
Miss A said that there had been delays in the claim.  I can see that Miss A held off making a 
claim because  she wanted an admission of liability from the other insurer. I think  Advantage 
went outside its usual  process and requested the police report  during this time.  When  Miss A 
did make  her claim, I think it dealt with it in a timely manner. So I cant  say that Advantage 
caused any avoidable delays in the claim.  
Miss As car was then declared  a total loss. She was upset that shed been driving around in 
the car during this period. But a total loss doesnt  necessarily mean that the car is 
unroadworthy, just beyond economical repair. In any case, Advantage couldnt instruct  an 
engineer to inspect  her car until Miss A decided to make her claim.  
Miss A was unhappy  that Advantages settlement didnt cover what  she owed the finance 
company. But, as the investigator has explained, Miss As policy covers the market value of 
her car at the time of its loss, not what  she might  owe on it. 
The investigator thought Advantages settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive looked at 
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the cars market value in the 
motor trade  guides  we use. Advantages offer was within the range of valuations provided  by 
these guides.  So I agree that its fair and reasonable.
Miss A said she had to pay a deposit  for a new car. I agree that, except for the accident, she 
wouldnt have needed to do this. But this isnt covered by her policy.  And so I cant  require 
Advantage to consider this.
Miss As policy doesnt provide a courtesy car in the case of a total loss settlement. But I can 
see that Advantage provided her with one for a period in recognition of its poor level of 
service. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  but its beyond  the 
requirements of the policy terms and conditions. So I cant  say that Advantage should  have  
extended the hire.  
Ref: DRN80404173my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Miss A £200 compensation in total (£100 in addition  to that 
previously offered) for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its 
already agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8040417