K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that a Discounted  Gift Trust (DGT) wasnt  set up by Fairstone 
Financial Management  (City) Limited, formerly known as Equus  Independent  Financial 
Management Limited (the business). 
They say the business failed to meet their objective  to mitigate  their potential Inheritance Tax 
(IHT) liability and replicate the advice it had given on the previous occasion. Instead they 
were left with a standalone investment and a potential IHT liability.    
background
In my provisional decision of 31 January 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision,  I upheld the complaint. I said:
If Mr and Mrs E agree  with my decision and put the funds in a new trust  but have 
no option but to encash their existing bond   and take out a level term assurance 
policy to cover the outstanding IHT liability, the business should  pay the following:
oThe income-tax incurred by Mr and Mr E encashing their existing bond 
subject to providing the relevant  paperwork.  
oThe reasonable cost of a seven year term assurance policy by way of an 
upfront lump sum.
oPay the reasonable cost of advice for sourcing the new trust and the term 
assurance subject to providing  an invoice. 
oPay £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused.
If the above is unworkable, and the parties can agree on a bond  / surety,  the 
business has to pay the maximum IHT liability  in the sum of £40,000  to be held 
by a solicitor, until it is needed  to be paid towards Mr and Mrs Es IHT liability. Plus 
£250 compensation for trouble and upset and any money  not used should be 
returned to the business.
Mr and Mrs E have  responded and made  the following key submissions:
Since theyre not the lives assured,  it will be possible for them to write the existing 
plan into a new DGT. Which means theyll avoid income tax liability  that wouldve 
been incurred  if they had to encash  the bond.
If a tax liability does  arise they would expect the business to compensate for this.
They will ask Old Mutual International to ascertain what Discount could be achieved 
and how much of the gift would fall outside  of their estate,  and then get their adviser 
to calculate the balance  of the IHT that theyd be liable for, over the seven years.
Their adviser has tried to obtain  quotes from Assureweb - the industry leading 
quote engine   but in light of the list of names  that wont  provide cover  it wont be 
possible to get level term cover.  
Their adviser has looked at the possibility of a whole  of life policy covering the liability  
and found only one provider who will quote  its unlikely theyd be able to get a 
standard cover quote, if they did the annual premium would be £3,111, and cover on 
a maximum basis  is likely to be even more  expensive.  An upfront lump  sum would 
cost around £21,777, which isnt far off from the IHT liability. And would  probably  be 
higher than setting  up an escrow  account  which would still be the best option all 
round. 
Ref: DRN81932942The business has also responded and made  the following key observations:
Its apprehensive  about  the review that has taken  place  by our service  and feels its 
at a disadvantage following the reversal of the adjudicators decision. It believes Mr 
and Mr E were in a position to be able to mitigate their IHT liability and didnt. 
Mr and Mrs E ceased to be customers of the firm in 2014, yet it is still held culpable 
for their, their trustees or their advisers failures  to act in the intervening  period. Mr 
and Mrs E ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause to complain in 
2014. By complaining in November 2017  they are out of time. 
Mr and Mrs E complained against the provider at the first instance. Surely  if they 
thought the business was to blame they should have come to it at the start.
Whilst it was told either party could refer the complaint to an ombudsman  it was told 
by the adjudicator the outcome was unlikely to be different, unless there  was any 
important information that hadnt been  provided  to the service. 
It seeks clarification  and sight  of the new evidence, and the source of that evidence,  
Ive considered. And an explanation  why Ive decided  in favour of Mr and Mrs E. 
It seeks clarification  to help it understand our decision making process,  in order that it 
may adopt the same technical, legislative and diligent  approach  to its complaint 
handling process so that its seen, and remains to be seen, fair and reasonable when 
it comes to assessing  all complaints. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, despite the submissions from the business, I uphold  this complaint. 
As Ive said before, Ive covered the points  I consider to be relevant to my decision and 
therefore I dont  feel it necessary  to go over the points  again in detail, except for those 
relating to the clarification of the proposed  redress.  
If the business needs further guidance about our approach there is useful information 
available online.  If it still has any further  issues it can contact our technical advice desk, 
either way its not for me to advise the business  on its complaints handling process in this 
instance. 
The business has raised another jurisdiction objection, but this time taking a different issue. 
But despite  what it says,  Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs E knew,  or ought reasonably to 
have known, three years before they complained, they had cause for complaint. I also dont 
think ceasing to be the business customers, in the circumstances had any bearing. Even if 
the trustees  or the advisers had failed in some  way  and Im not suggesting that they have  
 for the purposes of my considering jurisdiction  this is, all the more  reason to think they 
didnt know and ought not reasonably to have  known they had cause for complaint, from 
2014.    
Mr and Mrs E didnt  know they had cause  to complain against  the business,  and thats  why 
they initially complained to the product provider. Having taken advice they then made a 
complaint against  the business  and so evidently didnt know  before this point, in 2017 they 
had cause to complain.  
Ref: DRN81932943It isnt always clear  who the complaint should be against, the fact they didnt make  the 
complaint against  the business  at the very outset, doesnt mean  the business isnt 
responsible or that Mr and Mrs Es complaint is any weaker. 
Our service has a two stage dispute resolution process. If either party  disagrees with an 
adjudicator/investigators view at the first instance, they are entitled to ask for an 
ombudsmans decision and make  further  submissions. As an ombudsman,  its for me to look 
at the evidence afresh, and make a decision. Despite what  the business says,  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest it was given a guarantee that the decision wasnt going to change.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs E and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  And its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. Its not necessary for there to be new evidence. 
Its not our normal practice  to pass on  as a matter  of routine   the full business file along 
with a view/decision to the parties. That said, under the principles of natural justice and 
transparency, we endeavour to ensure that the parties have  seen the evidence  were relying 
upon. 
I appreciate the business disagrees with my decision. But because it was different to the 
adjudicators view, and in line with our procedure, I issued a provisional decision giving the 
parties an opportunity  to respond to my decision. As it happens I issued a second provisional  
decision in an effort to be fair to all parties and properly  consider the proposed redress, 
before making  my final decision.  So, Im satisfied the business  has had a reasonable 
opportunity to consider what I said and respond. 
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs E for confirming that itll be possible for them to write the existing 
plan into a new DGT, which means  theyll avoid income tax liability that wouldve been 
incurred if they had to encash the bond. If, however, a tax liability does arise  as a result  of 
this, I think its reasonable for the business to cover  this. 
It seems  that Mr and Mrs E will also ask Old Mutual International to ascertain  what  
Discount could be achieved and how much  of the gift would  fall outside of their estate, and 
then get their adviser to calculate  the balance of the IHT that theyd be liable for over the 
seven years, which I think is a sensible way forward. Itll be useful to let the business know 
as soon as they have  that information  to hand. 
In light of their response, it seems that a seven year level term assurance policy, to cover  the 
potential IHT liability, is not a practical  option in the circumstances. Ive no reason to doubt 
the findings of Mr and Mrs Es adviser.  I also dont think, given  what has been  said, that a 
whole-of-life policy is necessarily any better in the circumstances. 
In line with what I had said in my provisional  decision  I think  the business should agree  with 
Mr and Mrs E the option of either  bond  or surety (in the form of a cash  lump sum), to be held 
by a solicitor, for a period  of seven years to cover Mr and Mrs Es potential  IHT liability.  And 
any money not used  should be returned to the business.
my final decision
Ref: DRN81932944For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  
I understand Mr and Mrs E will place the plan in a new DGT to avoid having to pay any tax 
liability that might otherwise have arisen.  Therefore Fairstone Financial Management (City) 
Limited should: 
Pay any tax liability that arises as a direct  result of placing the plan in a new DGT, 
subject to Mr and Mrs E providing the relevant paperwork. 
Pay the reasonable cost of advice for sourcing the new trust subject  to an 
invoice. 
Set up a bond  or surety with a cash lump sum equivalent to the potential  IHT 
liability Mr and Mr E are likely  to pay for a period of seven years, to be held by a 
solicitor. 
Pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81932945COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that a Discounted  Gift Trust (DGT) wasnt set up by Fairstone  Financial 
Management (City) Limited, formerly known as Equus Independent  Financial Management Limited 
(the business). 
They say the business failed to meet their objective to mitigate their potential  Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
liability and replicate  the advice it had given on the previous occasion. Instead  they were  left with a 
standalone investment and a potential IHT liability.     
background
In my provisional decision of 29 November  2018, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
provisional decision,  I upheld the complaint and said the business should  give Mr and Mrs E a written 
undertaking to cover any IHT liability arising  on the 2007/8  investment. And that it should  also pay 
them £250 for trouble  and upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs E responded  and made the following observations:
They  agreed with the IHT liability  but they dont agree  that they didnt suffer any financial  loss.
They  strongly believe their beneficiaries will suffer moving forward, namely by £61,670 which 
would have  fallen outside  the estate from day one
Since theyve survived seven years since the bond  should have been set up, the total value of 
the investment  would  be outside the estate. 
They  believe the minimum compensation they should be paid is £40,000 which is roughly  
40% of their initial investment.
On their death, their executors will calculate the financial loss to their beneficiaries based on 
the value of the bond  at the time.    
How can they be reassured that the business will still be in existence at the time of their 
deaths?
The business  also responded but disagreed with my decision. In summary it made  the following 
points:
It believes the contents  of its letter dated 02 May 2018 has been  disregarded by me, because  
Ive made no reference to it in my provisional decision. 
Ive wrongly  assumed  that the business accepts it made a mistake,  it doesnt. 
It has only agreed that something has gone wrong in the process, but doesnt believe this 
failure lies with it. 
The events took place over 10 years ago and so its records are limited.  But it maintains the 
failure to establish a suitable trust lies elsewhere. 
My decision doesnt address the report dated 10 April 2007, in which it was communicated 
that Mr and Mrs E took the trust document away from the meeting with the adviser  in order to 
gather signatures  in respect of the beneficiaries  and two other trustees. 
I assumed that Mr and Mrs E didnt know there had been a change  in the underwriting 
decision by the insurer. 
The insurer didnt  require  acceptance to be signed. Its letter of May 2007 clearly  requests that 
the adviser, not the applicant, confirm by signing the declaration from them.   
Evidence that the adviser did respond appears to have been overlooked by me. 
The adviser  had submitted the DGT trust document to the insurer. 
A letter dated 26 July 2017 from the insurer, referenced that it had contacted Mr and Mrs E 
but made no mention  of the trust. 
Ref: DRN81932946The business is at a disadvantage because it hasnt had sight of the letter sent by insurer 
after receiving an application  to establish  the gift trust on 18 April 2007. It wants to know if 
that letter  has been provided to our service.
Does the setting up of a trust fall under regulated activity and so under  our jurisdiction?
Mr and Mrs E turned  to the business as a last resort  after the complaint by the product 
provider was turned down. 
The business will have  no control whatsoever over the arrangements  made  within the estate 
for the purposes of mitigation and there it cant agree the open-ended liability for the 
£100,000. 
In light of their concerns about finality, I also canvassed the following options, notwithstanding the 
difficulties, that Mr and Mrs E might gift the money  or put it in a new trust,  and for the business  to give 
an undertaking that itll cover  the IHT liability  arising for the next seven years.  And Mr and Mrs E take 
out a term assurance policy, if possible, for the next seven years from the start of the gift/trust to be 
paid for by the business.  
Mr and Mrs E responded  but having consulted their IFA they didnt think  my proposal was 
appropriate. In summary they said:
Setting up a new DGT wasnt viable.
Encashing  the existing bond to set up a new one was likely to incur  an income tax charge. If it 
went down this direction,  itd expect the business to pay this tax. 
If the money received  from encashing was less than £100,000 the business  would  have to 
make up the difference.  
They  would still have an IHT liability of £24,000. Given their age and health it wont be 
possible to get a term assurance policy to cover this amount. And even if it was possible it 
would depend  on the business still being  in business to keep paying the premiums for seven 
years.   
They  believe the business should pay £40,000 upfront  in an escrow account,  which is likely to 
cost the business far less. 
 
The business  also responded.  In summary it said:
It appreciates that the ombudsman service like itself is seeking a fair and reasonable outcome 
for both parties.  
It doesnt  think Mr and Mrs E will be amenable  to a term assurance policy because  they 
werent in 2007. 
It believes it advised  the gift option in 2007. 
Its unlikely that itd wish to engage with Mr and Mrs E in giving further advice about  gift/DGT  
or term assurance policy. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, despite  the submissions from the business and Mr and Mrs E, I uphold this 
complaint. However Ive been persuaded to amend the redress.  
Ive covered the points I consider to be relevant to my decision and therefore I dont feel it necessary 
to go over the points again in detail, except for those relating  to the possible redress.   
I thought I had made clear that Id considered all of the evidence, but I apologise if this wasnt clear. 
Im not required to mention every single piece  of evidence considered. 
I thought it was reasonable to conclude the business had accepted  it made  a mistake given that it had 
provisionally agreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold the complaint, on the basis that the 
Ref: DRN81932947business was more likely  than not at fault. I prefaced my conclusion on the basis that the business 
appeared to accept in the main that it had made a mistake. Im grateful  for the clarification.  
I cant  say for sure who is to blame for this error, but Im not required to. Im considering this case  on 
the balance of probabilities,  and on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the 
business says, I think its more likely  than not that the business  as adviser and seller  of this product 
 didnt  give  Mr and Mrs E what they wanted. Whether or not the insurer had made an error relevant 
to this case or not, is not the question before me.   
In my opinion,  as a result of the error by the business, Mr and Mrs E are now faced  with a potential 
IHT liability that they were  unlikely to have  had, if the business had done what  it was supposed to and 
appears to have done  on a previous occasion. 
I mindful of the business objection to jurisdiction, but Im satisfied we do have jurisdiction,  because 
the setting up of the trust was part of (or ancillary to) the investment advice.
The important question is redress, and what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs E quite rightly raise the question of how can they be sure that the business  will be around 
when the potential tax liability arises on their deaths? Im afraid I dont  know the answer to that 
question, theres just no way that I can guarantee that the business will be around.  But despite what  
they say, on balance  Im not satisfied that theyve suffered an actual loss at this time, so I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask the business  to pay an upfront  lump sum in respect of this. 
I also appreciate  the issue raised by the business that itll have no control  whatsoever over the 
arrangements made within the estate for the purposes of mitigation, and thats why it cant agree the 
open-ended liability for the £100,000. 
For these  reasons I dont think my previously proposed  redress was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs E may take steps to try and reduce their potential IHT liability arising  out of this 
investment. Im conscious of their reservations so if theyre  able to do so and without causing  
detriment to their financial  position, they ought to. 
I appreciate the further points made by the business, but even  if Mr and Mrs E werent amenable to a 
term assurance policy back in 2007 doesnt mean they wont be now, because the circumstances are 
different and Im looking  for a fair and reasonable  solution in circumstances  with very limited options.  
Despite the concerns  expressed  by both parties about cost, finality and on-going  assurances I still 
dont think this is necessarily a barrier  to achieving  a fair and reasonable  outcome in the 
circumstances, providing both parties are willing. 
Ultimately, for the reasons  that Ive explained  here and in my provisional  decision, I still think the 
business is responsible for paying any IHT liability  arising  on the money  that should  have been put in 
trust on Mr and Mrs Es deaths.
In the circumstances a fair solution would be for Mr and Mrs E to set up a trust. I wonder if they could 
do this without  having  to encash their current bond. It may be possible to put the existing arrangement 
into trust without going through encashment. If this is not possible, the business  will have to cover the 
cost of any income-tax incurred by Mr and Mrs E. I note there was no guarantee as to the level of 
return so Im not persuaded that the business is liable to make up the difference  if the encashment 
amount is less than £100,000.  
The business  could then arrange a level term assurance policy to cover any outstanding IHT liability. 
If its unwilling to do this, it can pay for Mr and Mrs E to get advice to do this, and then pay a lump  
sum to cover  the premiums  over seven years, so the policy is paid for, whether  or not the business is 
still around.   
Ref: DRN81932948If a seven year term assurance policy cant be arranged because of Mr and Mrs Es age and heath  
which is a possibility  Id be minded  to ask the business pay the IHT liability amount into a bond or 
surety, like an escrow account. This maybe a reasonable way forward, that avoids  the business  
having to make a substantial upfront  payment.    
However, if all of the options are unworkable, then it may be that the business has to pay the 
maximum IHT liability  in the sum of £40,000  to be held by a solicitor, until it is needed to be paid 
towards Mr and Mrs Es IHT liability. Any money thats not needed, or if Mr and Mrs E survive seven 
years, then all the money can be returned  to the business. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provision  decision,  Im provisionally minded uphold  this 
complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs E agree with my decision and put the funds in a new trust  but have no option but to 
encash their existing  bond   and take out a level term assurance policy  to cover the outstanding IHT 
liability, Fairstone  Financial  Management (City) Limited should pay the following:
The income-tax  incurred by Mr and Mr E encashing their existing bond subject to 
providing the relevant paperwork. 
The reasonable cost of a seven year term assurance policy by way of an upfront lump  
sum.
Pay the reasonable cost of advice  for sourcing the new trust and the term assurance 
subject to providing an invoice.  
Pay £250  compensation  for trouble  and upset caused.
If the above  is unworkable, and the parties can agree on a bond / suety,  Fairstone Financial 
Management (City) Limited has to pay the maximum IHT liability   in the sum of £40,000   to be held 
by a solicitor, until it is needed to be paid towards Mr and Mrs Es IHT liability. Plus the £250 
compensation for trouble and upset. Any money not used should be returned to the business.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8193294