K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Retail Money  Market Ltd wrongly allowed  her then husband to take out 
a loan in her name, but has sought payment from her. Retail  Money Market Ltd trades as 
RateSetter.
background
In June 2018 a £3,500 loan was taken  out in Mrs Ss name.  The loan proceeds were paid 
into the joint account she held with her husband. It was transferred out of that account on the 
same day. Two transfers were made, one to Mr Ss account and one to a gambling firm.
A few months later Mrs S says she found  out that her husband had taken out a number of 
loans in her name, which hed used to fund his gambling habit. They included the RateSetter 
loan. Shes  explained that her husband controlled  their finances, including  the joint account 
into which her salary  was paid.
Mrs S contacted RateSetter  to say that she hadnt taken out the loan and that she shouldnt  
therefore be liable to repay  it.
RateSetter didnt  agree to Mrs Ss request. It said, in summary,  that Mrs S should have 
monitored the joint account; had she done  so, she would have been aware of her husbands 
actions. It also said that it regarded the matter  as a civil dispute - which  I take to mean  that it 
should be resolved directly between Mr and Mrs S.
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. He took the view that Mrs S hadnt 
taken out the loan and that RateSetter couldnt  therefore hold her liable for it. RateSetter 
didnt agree and asked  that an ombudsman review the complaint.
In the meantime, the investigator sought further information from Mrs S about her separation  
and divorce from Mr S, which she provided.
I considered the case and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion  from that 
reached by the investigator, I issued  a provisional  decision. 
I agreed that it was unlikely Mrs S applied for the loan or knew  about it when it was taken 
out. The information needed  to take out the loan would have been readily available to Mr S, 
and there  were indications that he had used some, but not all, of her details to do so.
I didnt agree with RateSetter that Mrs S was under a duty to monitor  the activity  on the joint 
account or that she should have identified the loan payment sooner. Customers  should alert 
their banks to fraudulent  activity as soon as they become aware of it, but I was satisfied Mrs 
S hadnt identified  any issue until it was too late to prevent  her losses. 
I also took the view that Mrs S hadnt had any benefit from the loan taken out in her name.  
Whilst it had been  paid into a joint account  (to which she of course had access),  Mr S had 
removed the money  before she found out about it. The effect  of paying the money into the 
joint account was that Mr S had been able to access it, even  though the loan was in the 
name of Mrs S. 
As Ive mentioned,  Mr and Mrs S were subsequently divorced, and Mrs S provided some 
details of the financial arrangements she reached  with Mr S. They  were concluded after she 
became aware  of the RateSetter loan and after it had declined  her claim. The agreement 
Ref: DRN87449702reached between  Mr and Mrs S indicated that Mr Ss gambling activities - including taking 
out loans in Mrs Ss name  had been taken into account. It appeared that Mr S had agreed, 
for example, not to claim any share in the matrimonial home.
RateSetter suggested that this was a civil matter  - which I took to mean  that it should be 
resolved between Mr and Mrs S. The divorce settlement indicated  to me however that it had 
been resolved  between  them, at least in the sense  that Mr Ss action in removing the £3,500  
loan funds from the joint account  was in their minds  when  they agreed  how to divide their 
assets and liabilities.  
For that reason,  I didnt  consider that it would be fair to require RateSetter  to write off the 
loan in full. It had been taken into account  in the divorce settlement, and it appeared that Mrs 
S had received more in that settlement than she might otherwise  have  done.  I also took the 
view, however, that Mrs S hadnt  agreed  to the loan terms  for example, the interest rate or 
payment arrangements   and so it wouldnt be fair for RateSetter to hold her to those terms.
I recommended, provisionally, that RateSetter limit its claim for repayment from Mrs S to the 
capital amount of the loan, £3,500. I also recommended a further payment of £200 in 
recognition of the distress caused  to Mrs S. 
In response to my provisional decision Mrs S pointed out that the loan had appeared on her 
credit file. All other  loan companies  had accepted what  her ex-husband had done and had 
agreed to correct her credit files. 
She said too that her credit score  had prevented her from being  able to move her mortgage 
to a different  lender and that as a result her monthly  mortgage payments were around £115  
more than would otherwise have been  the case. 
RateSetter was broadly  in agreement with my provisional findings. In response to Mrs Ss 
further comments, it said it would remove information from her credit file once they had 
agreed to a repayment plan for the outstanding money. It didnt accept however that her 
mortgage repayments had been  higher  as a result of the loan. 
Ive therefore  considered  the case again in the light of these further  comments.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my main finding  from that set out in my provisional  decision. Whilst I dont 
believe Mrs S took out the loan, agreed to anyone else taking it out or had any benefit from 
it, I think she has  as far as possible  resolved  that issue  with Mr S. Against that, however,  
she didnt agree to its terms, and so RateSetter  should not seek to recover  from her any 
more than the capital amount outstanding. For the avoidance of any doubt,  credit should be 
given for any payments  that were  made  shortly after the loan was taken out. RateSetter 
should not apply any interest or charges to the amount it transferred to Mr and Mrs Ss 
account.
I agree  with Mrs S that RateSetter should  remove any credit reference information registered  
as a result  of the loan. That should not be dependent upon any payment arrangement being 
reached; but nor should it prevent the recording of information at a later date if payment 
arrangements are not met.
Ref: DRN87449703Im not persuaded that, but for the loan, Mrs S would have been  able to switch her mortgage 
to a different  provider  at lower cost. She hasnt provided any documents evidencing  that and 
says she has nothing  more she can provide.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mrs Ss complaint, Retail  Money Market  Ltd 
should:
limit the amount it is seeking  from Mrs S to the outstanding capital balance  of the loan, 
taking into account any payments already  made;
tell Mrs S in writing  the amount outstanding;
agree not to charge  interest or add any fees or charges to the amount due; and
pay Mrs S £200 in recognition of the distress shes been put to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8744970