K821x#15complaint
Mr As complaint arises  from a gadget insurance  policy with Assurant General Insurance 
Limited.
background
Mr A made a claim on 29 March 2019,  when his laptop screen was cracked. Mr A sent his 
laptop to Assurants repairers but when it was returned  to him he says there were scratches 
on the outer lid. Mr A returned  the laptop  to Assurant  on 25 April 2019, as he wanted the 
repaired. However, Assurant said the policy doesnt provide cover for cosmetic damage, so 
the laptop was returned to him. Mr A said the laptop  was returned with further  damage to the 
lid.
Mr A says the damage was caused by Assurant and was not there when he first sent the 
laptop to be repaired. He asked for a replacement laptop and his excess of £75 reimbursed. 
Assurant says the scratches  were not caused by its repairers and so is not liable. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He decided it was more likely than not that 
the scratches were  caused when the laptop was sent back  to Mr A the first time. The 
investigator thought  this might have been  caused by the charger being in the same  
packaging. There were  no scratches visible in photographs taken just before it was sent 
back to Mr A, so he thought it likely  that the damage happened en route and as this was 
while in the care of Assurants couriers,  it was its responsible.  The  investigator therefore  
said that Assurant  should repair Mr As laptop, so it is restored to the condition  it was in prior 
to the claim (save for the screen damage).
Assurant does not accept the investigators  assessment  and has made a number of points in 
response, which Ive summarised below: 
if a charger or other accessory is being returned  to a consumer, then this is put in 
separate packaging to prevent any damage  whilst the device is in transit.
It takes photographs of devices when  they are received  and just before dispatch back  
to a customer. There is no photograph of a charger in the photographs taken when 
the laptop was first received  unlike the second  occasion where there  were  photos 
of the laptop and charger together. Therefore, as it never had the charger at that 
stage, it is not possible  for this to have damaged the device in transit following our 
first repair.
It is important  to note as well that Mr A reported  that the screen was damaged and 
the touch pad did not operate. 
Any damage is cosmetic and would not affect  the functionality  of the laptop and so it 
does not consider that it can be expected to repair the device. 
Ref: DRN83249112As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter it has been passed to me. I asked the 
investigator to see if the parties would agree to a cash settlement instead of trying  to repair 
the laptop again, as it isnt clear the scratches can be repaired and as Mr A has said 
Assurant has caused damage twice it would be preferable for him not to have  to return  the 
laptop a third time. 
Mr A agreed to compensation of £75 but Assurant  did not agree,  as it still considers that it 
was not responsible for the damage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The photos  Assurant  has provided show that Mr As laptop was not scratched when it was 
with its repairers. But the day after it was delivered back  to him, Mr A told it there were 
scratches on it. Assurant has provided photographs  of the packaging it would normally  use 
and Mr A has confirmed that it was returned  to him in such packaging. However,  he is also 
adamant that the charger  was in with the laptop, rather than separately  packaged.  
It is impossible  for me to say how the scratches were caused. But overall, given how soon 
they were reported  to Assurant after the laptop was returned to Mr A and that I have  no 
reason to doubt Mr As account of this, I consider it is likely they were  caused either before 
being packaged up by the repairers,  or while the laptop was in transit  back  to Mr A. 
I accept Assurants point  that the scratches do not affect the functionality of the computer  
and are cosmetic only. Mr A has not suggested otherwise. I do not therefore consider  that it 
is reasonable for it to replace the laptop  or to repair the scratches (if that is even possible). I 
consider overall  that a compensation payment of £75 to reflect  the fact the laptop (which  was 
fairly new) has some  cosmetic damage is a reasonable  outcome in the circumstances of this 
case. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited  and require it to pay    
Mr A £75 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its handling of his 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8324911