K820x#14complaint
Mr G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in connection  with his credit  card.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from September  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to reject Mr Gs complaint and I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  representations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties were  sent the provisional 
decision, but neither of them has given me any further information or evidence  to consider.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN80647802Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr G says The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  in connection  with his credit card.
background
This complaint is about  a credit card PPI policy taken out in January 2002.  The policy was added to 
Mr Gs credit card account  when he applied  for the card in person. The policy cost 77p per £100 of 
the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would repay  10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to twelve months if Mr G wasnt working  due to accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. RBS disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint 
comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
RBS says it didnt advise Mr G to purchase PPI and its supplied a copy of the application form. The 
application form included  a section relating to PPI which  says; Credit card Repayment Protector  
Insurance is designed to protect your RBS Credit Card payments in the event of death,  accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment (including  redundancy).For  cover, just tick this box. 
So Im satisfied RBS didnt advise Mr G to take out the policy  it appears he completed the form 
himself, and then gave  the application form to RBS. I acknowledge the application form contained the 
wording we recommend, but I dont think this wouldve been sufficient to convince Mr G that he 
was receiving personalised advice. This means RBS didnt need to establish the suitability of the 
policy for Mr G; this was a decision he needed to make for himself.
Im further satisfied that the policy was optional   customers didnt need to purchase it, but in this 
particular case, I can see Mr G chose to purchase the PPI and then signed the application form.  And 
as the policy and the premiums appeared on his monthly  credit card statement, had it been added to 
his account without either  his knowledge  or consent,  I wouldve expect him to query this in the first 
few months after his account was opened.
But RBS still had to give Mr G information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that he could 
make a proper choice  about  whether or not to take the policy out.
I cant  say that RBS did give Mr G all the information as it shouldve. So I have to go on and consider 
whether he wouldve still taken the policy out if he had been given all of the information  as he 
shouldve been. But having  done this, I dont think better information wouldve put Mr G off taking the 
policy out. I say this because:
Mr G wasnt affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy, such  as those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions and unusual working  arrangements  he told us he was employed 
and in good health  in January 2002 when he took the policy out.
Mr G told us he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer in the event  that he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. However, this policy  paid out a benefit of 10% of 
his monthly outstanding balance for 12 months in the event of accident,  sickness or 
unemployment, and was therefore  at a higher level than his existing  occupational provision. In 
Ref: DRN80647803the unfortunate event of Mr Gs death  it wouldve  paid off his credit card balance in full. So 
although I accept the information may not have been clear, fair and not misleading,  I dont 
think Mr G wouldve acted any differently had that information been made  clearer.
Mr G told us he had a significant level of savings  when he took out this policy   so he wouldnt 
have needed to buy PPI. RBS asked for evidence  of these  savings because  it says the way 
in which the customer was managing his credit card account suggests that he did not hold 
significant savings at the time of sale. Weve asked Mr G and his representative  for evidence 
of these savings on several occasions,  but to date weve had no response.  So, at the 
moment, I dont find Mr Gs testimony to be plausible. 
I understand the cost of the policy  was no higher than 77p for every £100 of balance  
outstanding. In the event  of a successful claim  it would  pay out 10% of the outstanding  
balance for 12 months. Whilst  it may not have been made clear  that the premiums were  
interest bearing and so the benefit is reduced because of that, it nevertheless remains a 
competitive benefit  and higher than similar policies  of its type. On balance,  I dont  think Mr G 
would have  been  put off by the cost, had it been made clearer and I find it likely he wouldve  
proceeded with the policy, in any event.
Furthermore, the PPI transaction  and cost appeared on his monthly credit card statement, 
and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mr G, or it became  unaffordable, he 
couldve cancelled it at any point without penalty.
Overall, while  I dont  think RBS met Mr Gs information needs, having considered the position 
carefully Im not persuaded  Mr G suffered detriment as a result of this. Rather, it seems more likely to 
me that given  his circumstances  he wouldve  decided the policy provided valuable  protection  in 
relation to his new credit  card (and potential liability)  and still gone ahead  with it.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Gs other comments but, at the moment, these  points dont  change  
my conclusion.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.
I now invite  Mr G, and The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to give me any further information  theyd like 
me to consider before I make my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8064780