K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI). Mr D complained that 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold this type of cover.  
background
Ill begin by noting that it doesnt look like Mr D is entirely sure of the dates and details of the 
PPI sale or the mortgage(s) covered.  I do understand  however, that due to the passage of 
time, remembering what happened isnt easy. I also see that Mr Ds wife, Mrs D, has since  
passed away and Im sorry to learn  about that.
Nevertheless, Ive looked at what paperwork  and other records  still seem to exist for this 
matter. Businesses arent required  to keep records indefinitely  but we now know Mr D and 
the late Mrs D probably took out this type of cover with RBS to help protect joint mortgage 
borrowing, taken out in 1999.  It seems  they had already operated a joint mortgage since the 
1980s, but in 1999  they appear to have been re-arranging  their financial affairs  by borrowing 
more money. This represented the first PPI sale from what  I can see.
So, they appear to have  taken out PPI in 1999  - at this point covering both Mr D and the late 
Mrs D equally. It cost around £7 per month and would have paid out up to £120 in the event  
of a successful claim. In 2007, the cover was re-arranged to cover only Mr D, but also for a 
higher amount, reflecting  the higher borrowing. This time,  for around £19 a month, it 
protected him against losing his job or being unable to work  for up to £350 per month.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case and said they didnt think  we should uphold  the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. However, they also said they thought  RBSs  subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because  of the non-disclosure  of high 
commission and profit share Mr D and the late Mrs D paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided RBS should  have disclosed the 
Ref: DRN88522512commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate  is 
fair in the circumstances and accordance with the rules we work to. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are as follows:
Whilst we dont  have  all the records from the 1999 sale,  I think RBS probably made it 
clear that Mr D and the late Mrs D didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take 
it out because  they wanted to protect their mortgage. I say this because  Ive looked  at 
their mortgage quotation. A key point of Mr Ds complaint is that he doesnt recall  ever 
agreeing to PPI and was unaware he / they even had it. But Im afraid I dont think this is 
right because  the mortgage  quotation  included the PPI costs and I think these were laid 
out clearly enough. Also, in re-arranging  the PPI cover in 2007, Mr D would most likely 
have re-visited his financial affairs, which caused the existing dual PPI coverage to be 
changed to just covering himself. Finally, records show  he made a successful claim on 
the PPI policy  in 2009 and received £501.  Clearly, Mr D would need  to know  the policy 
existed (and what it covered) to make  such a claim. So, I think  the evidence is strong 
enough here that he knew the cover was in place and that consent was correctly  
obtained.
Theres no evidence RBS recommended the PPI to Mr D and / or the late Mrs D as part 
of an advised sale - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was suitable  for them.  But it 
did have to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading, so they 
themselves could think about what  right for them. As Ive said, the costs were  probably 
clear enough and known to them and there  was an obvious  awareness of what  the 
insurance was for.
Of course, its certainly possible the information  RBS provided wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they / he chose  to take it out and its clear  to me that 
there was an engagement with subsequent policy management, changes,  and indeed  a 
successful claim.  It therefore  looks very much like they / he wanted this type of cover. It 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. I have considered  with care whats  been said 
about pre-existing medical conditions and its possible certain limitations could have 
been applied  to some  illnesses previously  experienced. However, for Mr D, these related 
back to the 1980s  and therefore well before  the PPI sale in 1999. Ive seen nothing 
suggesting these  medical conditions persisted into the late 1990s or that he would have 
considered the previous injuries to be ones  which by 1999  for which a claim on the 
PPI would seem likely.   A medical  condition mentioned in respect of the late Mrs D post-
dated the 1999 sale, so Im afraid this isnt relevant  in this context. In summary,  it seems 
like the PPI would have been  useful  for them if something went wrong  and I think this is 
probably why it was purchased. Because of this I dont think  Mr D and / or the late Mrs D 
would have declined  the cover, even if RBS could  have done a better job at explaining 
certain things, such as the limitations or policy exclusions. 
Overall, I consider that Mr D and the late Mrs D would have still taken out the PPI. The 
policies in 1999 and 2007 were probably  sufficiently  close  to what  its likely they / he thought 
they were getting  and I think  the PPI provided a useful benefit.  
Mr Ds representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
Ref: DRN88522513significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant RBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I have thought  
about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But these  points dont 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
RBS didnt tell Mr D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
RBS and Mr D and / or the late Mrs D was unfair  under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because RBS didnt mention  the high levels  of commission and profit share  in 
this case 
I dont think RBS acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr D and / or the late Mrs D 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN88522514Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Ds representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr D should  get back all the money  paid for the policy because:  
RBS failed to disclose the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, the low claims ratio 
and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy  was 
poor value,  I should  find that they / he wouldnt have taken out the policy  had they known 
about the level of commission and Mr D should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr D in order to remedy the unfairness  caused  by RBS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to Mr D.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which,  in my 
view a court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Ds representative  suggests, driven to conclude that they / he wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for RBSs failure to disclose the level of commission  for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for RBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr D paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN88522515I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr D 
with the cover Ive concluded above they / he would still have taken out if RBS had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that RBSs  offer of payment of an amount equivalent  to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ds complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable)  if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852251