K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) advice to 
invest in a Teachers  Additional Voluntary Contribution (TAVC)  pension  plan rather than 
purchase additional years in his Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS).
background
Mr B took out a TAVC  plan in 2000  when he was 48 years old, he had just started a new job 
and says his planned retirement age was 65. The TAVC policy  was set up with a starting 
contribution of 6.4% of Mr Bs salary  per year. Mr B increased contributions to his TAVC  plan 
in 2002 and 2004. Mr B retired in February 2013  and took the benefits from his policy.
Mr B says he was advised to take the TAVC  by Prudential. Hes also said he wasnt  aware of 
the option to buy added years in the TPS and had he been, he wouldve done so. He 
complained to Prudential about  this.
Prudential looked  into Mr Bs complaint but didnt  agree it had done anything wrong. It said it 
wasnt able to locate  the original paperwork from when Mr B took out the TAVC. But its 
application form at the time wouldve made  him aware of the added years  option. So it didnt 
agree the TAVC was mis-sold.
Unhappy with this response Mr B referred his complaint  to us where one of our investigators  
looked into it. Our investigator couldnt  say whether Mr B was told about the added years 
option. But he thought even if he had been  made aware, he wouldnt have taken this option 
due to the high cost of buying the maximum number of years.  So the investigator didnt think  
the TAVC  had been mis-sold.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he was made  aware of the option to take added  years when he 
took the TAVC,  but wasnt made aware  of the benefits of this. He also said that the 
application form used  by Prudential has since been found by the industry regulator to not be 
fit for purpose.  He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  So its been passed  to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B originally told us he wasnt made  aware of the option of buying added years. Hes since  
told us he was made aware of this option, but wasnt made aware of the benefits of it. The 
sales representative was only authorised  to provide  advice on Prudential products; they 
couldnt have  advised Mr B on the added years  option. All the representative had to do was 
make Mr B aware  that added years were  an alternative option  and refer him to the TPS 
booklet for further information. So I wouldnt have expected the adviser to discuss  the 
benefits of added years. 
Ref: DRN80105662Mr B took his policy in 2000, around  19 years  ago and the original paperwork isnt available 
due to the amount of time which has passed. So its difficult to know  with certainty what was 
discussed. Although  Mr B has now said he was told about added years, its possible his 
recollection of what was discussed has faded  over time. So I have  thought about the 
possibility Mr B wasnt told about added years  at all. And Ive gone on to think about what  I 
think he wouldve most likely done  had he been  told about them.
Taking into account Mr Bs age and length  of service at the time, he wouldnt have had the 
chance to accumulate  enough years to gain maximum benefit from his scheme. Mr B has told us 
that he joined the TPS in 2000 - at around the age of 48 - and his normal  retirement age was 60. 
This means  he would  have been  around  28 years short of receiving maximum service  from the 
scheme at retirement.  Mr B initially chose to contribute 6.4% of his annual  salary to the TAVC. 
Had he paid the equivalent amount to the added years option  instead, this would have only 
bought him a few of the missing years. And I think  that it would probably  have  been  shown that 
the projected benefits from the TAVC would be greater than the projected added  years benefits. 
So its difficult to say now that Mr B would definitely have considered it the cost effective  or 
affordable option,  when  compared with the projected  benefits  available from investing in the 
TAVC plan.
Weve been provided with copies of the forms Mr B completed when he increased 
contributions to his TAVC in 2002 and 2004.  And he signed to say he was aware of the 
added years option, but chose not to explore  this option further. So Im satisfied  that from 
2002 onwards  Mr B was aware that added years  were an alternative option for topping  up 
his pension provision  but he made the decision to continue his TAVC as opposed to 
purchasing added years. I think this also suggests that, had he definitely  been told about  
them in 2000  during  the original sale, he would also have made the same decision.
I do appreciate that investment returns achieved by the TAVC were much  lower than 
expected. But its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know that Mr B may have been 
better off buying added years. I cant use information that wasnt known at the time to make  
my decision.  
Lastly, Ive considered Mr Bs comments about  the application form being found to be not fit 
for purpose.  I dont think I need  to make a finding  on this point. The reason I say this, is that 
regardless of what Mr B was or wasnt told, I dont think that Mr B wouldve  purchased  added  
years for the reasons  Ive already given.  
I realise my decision is likely to disappoint Mr B. But having taken all the available  evidence 
into account and for the reasons above, Im not persuaded he would have bought  added  
years if hed been given clearer information by Prudential. 
Ref: DRN80105663my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8010566