K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited is responsible  for poor service  
under a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Ms M had a home emergency policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. In 
2015, Acromas was the insurer responsible  for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Acromas 
or the insurer, I include its claims-handlers  and others for whose actions I hold Acromas 
responsible.
In November 2015, Ms M called the insurer for help with a radiator that wasnt working 
properly. She complained  that the insurer incorrectly said the radiator was affected  by sludge 
or scale so it wasnt covered by the policy.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think 
Acromas had done anything wrong.  He thought that Acromas had dealt  with Ms Ms 
complaint fairly. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms M 
and to Acromas on 4 January 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I didnt think that Acromas treated Ms M unfairly by saying that it wouldnt fix her 
radiator because it was affected by sludge  or scale.
I didnt think any of the three levels of the home emergency policy covered repair  or 
replacement of Ms Ms radiator  whether  or not it was affected by sludge or scale.
Subject to any further information from Ms M or from Acromas,  my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I wasnt minded to direct  Acromas Insurance  
Company Limited  to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
Ms M disagrees  with the provisional decision.  She says,  in summary, that:
we should  check the relevant years copy of the policy  terms
the  policy covered  for a replacement radiator
there was no exclusion for sludge
there has never been any sludge 
the insurers engineer did not bring any equipment to check for sludge
he didnt say to Ms M there was sludge
the insurer stated  that they will replace the radiator 
the insurer sent people to measure  for such a replacement
later the engineer lied that there was sludge
before  him and after him, 23 other engineers said there is no sludge
they did not put it in writing
Ref: DRN88673152Acromas hasnt responded to the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the documents for the policy renewal in September  2015. Ive seen the May 2015 
policy terms. From those  documents,  I think Ms M had three  levels of home emergency 
insurance. Each of them was subject to a general exclusion of descaling and any work 
arising from hard water scale  or from damage  caused by sludge.
It was that exclusion  that the insurer relied on when it declined  Ms Ms claim. Its engineer 
had diagnosed scale or sludge. And  although she disagrees - Ms M hasnt provided 
enough evidence  that the engineer was wrong.  So  like the investigator  I dont think that 
Acromas treated Ms M unfairly  by saying that it wouldnt fix her radiator because it was 
affected by sludge or scale.
Ive seen letters from Acromas to Ms M in November and December 2015, September and 
November 2016.  None of them met the full requirements  for a final response letter  to give 
details of her right to bring her complaint to us. But I dont  think  this caused  Ms M any 
prejudice. She was able to bring  this complaint to us in August 2018.
Of the three  levels of cover, the first level was Home Emergency . That included cover  for 
internal plumbing  emergencies  such as repairing leaks. But Home Emergency cover didnt 
include repair or replacement of radiators because it contained the following exclusion:
You are not covered  for the following
5. Repair or replacement  of radiators, radiator valves...
The second  level of cover was Home and Heating  Emergency. That included  cover for 
heating emergencies.  But Home and Heating  Emergency covered a complete failure of the 
boiler or main heating  system. It didnt  cover partial  breakdown. And partial breakdown 
was defined to include a failed radiator.
The highest  level of cover was the optional Compete  Home  & Heating Care . That included 
plumbing maintenance such  as repairs to a partial boiler breakdown  or central  heating  fault.  
But Compete Home  & Heating Care didnt cover  repair or replacement  of radiators 
because it contained  the following exclusion:
You are not covered  for the following
4. Repair or replacement  of , radiators
So I dont  think any of the three levels  of the home emergency policy  covered repair or 
replacement of Ms Ms radiator  whether  or not it was affected by sludge or scale.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  Acromas  to replace or repair the radiator 
or to do anything further in response to Ms Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN88673153my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to do anything further in response  to this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8867315