K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund disputed  cash withdrawals 
and payments made from his account.
background
On 2 July 2018,  a range of cash withdrawals and store payments were made from Mr Ls 
current account, using  his debit card, totalling £4,689.00. The table below provides a 
breakdown of all transactions relevant to this complaint:
date time activity amount authentication method
location notes
1 July 2018 21:34 in-store payment
£16.50 contactless London genuine
1 July 2018 22:31 balance enquiry
n/a chip & PIN London genuine
1 July 2018 22:31 cash machine 
withdrawal£20.00 chip & PIN London Mr L says the cash 
machine swallowed his 
card and didnt dispense 
the cash
2 July 2018 09:55 balance enquiry
n/a chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 11:14 balance enquiry
n/a chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 11:19 branch withdrawal
£1,900.00 chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 12:01 balance enquiry
n/a chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 13:21 in-store payment
£2,499.00 chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 13:39 in-store payment
£20.00 chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 13:48 balance enquiry
n/a chip & PIN London disputed
2 July 2018 14:37 in-store payment
£2,499.00 chip & PIN London disputed  blocked by 
NatWests fraud systems
2 July 2018 14:38 in-store payment
£999.00 chip & PIN London disputed  blocked by 
NatWests fraud systems
2 July 2018 14:45 cash machine 
withdrawal£250.00 chip & PIN London disputed
Ref: DRN888177722 July 2018 15:01 card reported 
missingn/a n/a n/a card blocked  following  a 
phone call with NatWest  to 
report the disputed  
transactions
2 July 2018 15:46 branch withdrawal
£100.00 ID & signature Reading genuine transaction
2 July 2018 16:09 in-store payment
£1.95 chip & PIN London rejected as card had been 
cancelled
The last time Mr L used his debit card was on 1 July 2018. He attempted  to withdraw  £20 
from a cash machine around 10.30pm. He says that the cash machine didnt dispense  the 
£20 he requested and that it also swallowed his card. Mr L says his card has been 
swallowed before, so he wasnt too concerned by this.  Mr L says he thinks  he remembers 
someone standing  to his left while  he used  the machine  and thinks  its possible this person 
saw his personal identification number  (PIN).
He says he received  a text alert from NatWest on 2 July 2018 regarding  a payment he hadnt 
made, which prompted him to visit his local branch. At this point  Mr L says he was made  
aware of the transactions and withdrawals. 
Mr L complained to NatWest who declined to refund the transactions. Its evidence showed  
that each transaction had been made  with the genuine card and the correct PIN was used 
each time.  NatWest didnt  think the account use followed  typical  fraudster behaviour  and 
couldnt see a plausible  way that both Mr Ls card and PIN had been compromised.
Unhappy with NatWests  response,  Mr L referred  his complaint to our service.  Mr L says he 
didnt authorise  any of these transactions and so thinks NatWest should  refund them.  The 
complaint was looked at by an investigator who thought that Mr L had authorised someone 
else to carry out the transactions on his behalf. The investigator said that there had been no 
other reported issues with the cash machine that Mr L says swallowed his card.  He also 
didnt think the account use reflected the behaviour  he would expect to see from a fraudster 
armed with a card and PIN.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion. He thought that NatWest should  have 
completed more checks before allowing  the transactions  to take place  and pointed  out that 
not all criminals work in the same  way. He also questioned whether he had been 
discriminated against based on his name. Because Mr L disagreed  with the investigators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The relevant  regulations  here are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 which detail the 
liability for transactions that take place on a consumer's account. NatWest can normally  hold 
Mr L liable  for transactions on his account  that hes authorised. Mr L has said he didnt 
authorise the transactions in question, so I need to consider  whether  NatWest acted fairly 
and reasonably by not refunding these transactions. Im making a finding  on whether I think 
Mr L more likely than not authorised the transactions himself.
Ref: DRN88817773For each transaction,  NatWest has been  able to provide evidence showing that the genuine 
card was used, the chip was read and the PIN entered correctly.  But that isnt enough on its 
own for it to hold Mr L liable. 
I also need to consider  whether Mr L consented to these transactions.  And as I cant  know  
for certain  what happened when these withdrawals were made,  I need  to consider the 
evidence on the balance of probabilities and decide whether its more  likely than not that    
Mr L consented to them. From what Ive seen,  I think its more likely than not that Mr L did 
consent to the disputed  transactions. Therefore,  I dont think  its unreasonable for NatWest  
to hold Mr L liable for them.
Mr L has said he was in Reading all day on 2 July 2018, while  the disputed  transactions  
were taking place  in London.  I can see Mr L made a branch  cash  withdrawal in Reading  
within around 15 minutes of a disputed transaction taking place in London.  I therefore  dont 
think its plausible that Mr L carried out the disputed transactions  himself. This leaves the 
possible scenarios  that Mr L authorised a third party to complete the transactions on his 
behalf, or that the transactions were  completed by a fraudster.
Mr L told us that his card was swallowed  by a cash machine and that the money hed 
attempted to withdraw also wasnt dispensed  by the cash machine. The cash machine 
operator has indicated  that the £20 he requested was dispensed and that this would only 
happen after the card had already been  released. The cash  machine operator also said that 
no other issues had been  reported against  the machine and that it was used by other 
customers after Mr Ls attempted use, which  it said wouldnt be possible if the card was still 
in the machine. 
The cash  machine operator hasnt provided  as much evidence  as Id ideally have liked to 
see  such as the times of subsequent customer cash withdrawals. Based on the time thats  
passed since the event, I think its highly unlikely  any further information is now available. In 
any event, the cash  machine  operator was able to provide information about Mr Ls 
transaction that it hadnt been  provided with, such as the transaction value  so Im 
persuaded that an investigation did take place  and that the information it subsequently 
provided is accurate.  With this in mind, I dont  think  its likely the cash machine had been 
tampered with or that there  were any errors  with the withdrawal; I believe its more  likely than 
not the cash dispensed correctly, and Mr Ls card was returned as normal.
As I dont think the cash machine was tampered  with, Ive considered whether Mr Ls PIN 
was compromised  when  he attempted to withdraw cash. The fraudster would have had to 
observe Mr Ls PIN, then obtain Mr Ls card and cash without him realising they had been 
dispensed from the machine. Based on Mr Ls recollections of the evening I dont find this 
likely as hes not mentioned anyone distracting him while using the cash  machine. Whilst he 
seems to recall someone being nearby, there  doesnt seem to have been any direct 
interaction that might have led to his card and the cash being taken. I therefore dont think 
theres a plausible explanation for how both Mr Ls card and PIN were compromised.
I also agree  with the investigator that the following pattern of account activity isnt what I 
would expect from a fraudster. I agree with Mr L that not all criminals think  the same  way. At 
the same  time though, if I were to accept that a fraudster did obtain Mr Ls card in one of the 
methods set out above, I think this would  suggest  a pre-meditated  plan to defraud someone,  
rather than a chance scenario. I think its unlikely a fraudster would plan to obtain a card and 
PIN unlawfully, then not use it to obtain as much  money as they can, as quickly as possible.
Ref: DRN88817774In this case I can see that no money was withdrawn from the account until a branch 
withdrawal was completed at around 11.20am the following day. I think its unlikely  a 
fraudster would wait so long to try to withdraw  money, knowing Mr L could cancel the card at 
any time. It was a further 40 minutes  after this withdrawal before a balance enquiry was 
completed from a cash machine, even though the cash machine was just minutes  away  from 
the branch in question.  Even then, no cash was withdrawn at that time. In fact, it took around  
two hours  from the initial branch withdrawal for any further transaction  attempts to be made, 
with significant  gaps between other subsequent  transactions. Therefore, while I agree with 
Mr L that not all criminals  work in the same way, I think  this pattern of behaviour is too far 
removed from what Id expect to consider fraud  to be the most  plausible cause. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mr L authorised a third 
party to complete the disputed transactions and it follows that NatWest is entitled to hold him 
liable for them. Mr L argued that the value  of these transactions shouldve caused  NatWest 
to request further  identification or block the transactions. I agree that they were  out of 
character. But since Ive found (on balance) that he authorised them, I cant say that 
NatWest ought to have  taken  steps  to stop them.
My reasoning has been based on the evidence of the complaint alone.  I know Mr L is 
concerned that NatWest  didnt refund the transactions in dispute because  of his name.  But 
based on everything Ive seen,  I dont think Mr Ls name played  a part in NatWests decision 
process. I think  its likely   given the evidence NatWest had available   it wouldve acted in 
the same  way, regardless of his name.  I hope that it helps Mr L to know  that someone  
impartial and independent  has looked into his concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 26 September 2020.
Kirsty McShane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8881777