K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mrs Cs representatives. However,  Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. I will explain  why.
I think Nationwide Building Society made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional,  but that 
she still chose to take it.
Mrs C received advice from an intermediary mortgage adviser about her mortgage.  But 
the PPI itself was sold to her directly by Nationwide after she filled in a separate  
application form. This was after Mrs C had ticked on the mortgage form that she would 
like to receive information about PPI. So I dont think Nationwide  recommended the PPI 
to Mrs C, as being  particularly suited to her individual needs. This means it didnt have  to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances.  It would  have been  for Mrs C to decide whether 
it was suitable.   
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  I 
dont have direct evidence that it set out the costs  to Mrs C  though  I think it unlikely 
shed have filled in an application form for PPI without asking about  costs. But, given the 
cost of the PPI compared to the overall cost of the mortgage,  I dont  anyway think  full 
and clear information about the costs and benefits would have affected whether Mrs C 
took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide Building  Society  didnt clearly point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But its unlikely Mrs C would have been  affected by any of these. Its likely 
she was eligible for the policy, and shed  be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel  it 
at any time without further cost if her situation  changed.
Mrs Cs representatives have raised questions about the level of commission  Nationwide  will 
have received when selling  the PPI. However  I agree with the adjudicator  that the rules and 
legal decisions about unfair commission arent applicable in Mrs Cs case, because of the 
dates when the mortgage started and ended. 
Ref: DRN84778192my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  24 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8477819