K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) provided  poor service  when  she 
made a claim on her motor insurance  policy.
background
In July 2018 a person not insured on the policy was driving Ms Ws camper  van when it was 
involved in a serious accident. Ms W didnt report the accident  to RSA for a month as she 
didnt know about  it. In the meantime  her ex-partner (Mr A) had obtained a quote from a 
garage to repair  the van and had made  enquiries with other potential  repairers.  
When told about the accident  on 20 August 2018,  RSA contacted the police and the owner 
of the recovery / storage  firm Ms W was using, who said the van was driven  through  the wall 
of a field and a bridge wall. It was stopped from falling  into the stream below by a telegraph  
pole it hit, and was left hanging over the edge. He said members of the police, the fire 
service, an electricity company and the local council had all attended the scene. 
RSA decided that the vehicle was a total loss and asked a salvage firm (firm C) to collect it. 
It also asked Ms W to send the vans V5 registration document  to the DVLA  saying firm C 
was the new registered keeper. An independent engineer inspected the van on 
29 August 2018.  He said the extent of the damage  was such that it was a category B total 
loss, which  meant it couldnt be repaired and returned safely  to the road.
After RSA investigated the facts it said the claim wasnt valid, given that the driver at the time 
of the accident  wasnt  covered by the policy. It declined the claim in December 2018. Firm C 
said it would  return the van to Ms W, auction it or buy the salvage from her. Ms W said shed 
been disadvantaged by RSAs actions. She said it had decided the van was a total loss 
before the engineer reviewed the damage  and took ownership at that point.  She said the 
delay in declining the claim meant the firm that had agreed to repair  the van would no longer 
do so, as it thought  it  would  have deteriorated  whilst at firm Cs premises.     
One of our investigators  reviewed Ms Ws complaint. He didnt think  RSA was wrong  to write 
the van off as it had, or to get her to transfer  the V5 over to firm C. He said the van couldnt  
have been returned to the road, despite  any offers Ms W had obtained from repairers.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres extensive correspondence on the file between the investigator and Ms W before and 
after he issued his initial view. I wont  address  every  issue that was discussed, but Ill cover 
all the points that I think are central to the complaint. 
When she first reported the accident, Ms W didnt know the details of what had happened.  
But she said the woman who was driving  the van at the time had been convicted  of drink-
driving and having no licence or insurance.  The advisor didnt comment on that. Ms W thinks 
he should have  told her then that the claim wouldnt be covered. Instead  he said she should  
Ref: DRN86248142let RSA have  an estimate  for repairing the van for it to assess. He also said hed contact the 
police and the firm where  the van was being stored for further  details. 
I think the advisor should have noted  that someone  not covered on the policy was driving the 
van. In my opinion, that should  have  prompted  him to say that the claim may not be covered. 
And RSA has accepted  that he should  have recorded the details in a different way. But I 
dont think there were enough details available at that point for him to say the claim would 
declined. It wasnt even  clear who the driver was  let alone in what circumstances she was 
driving the van. And although  Ms W told the advisor that apparently  the van was a write-off,  
at the time RSA couldnt have known  for sure whether that was the case, and if so what 
category it fell in to. 
RSA told us that when it got further  details  of the accident a few days  later,  it used a 
predictive tool on its system to work out the likelihood of the van being written-off. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for it to do that. Other insurers use similar tools,  as they can often 
speed up the claims process. RSA says its predicted view sometimes changes after a review 
of the damage  by an engineer. But in this case an engineer confirmed shortly afterwards that 
the damage made the van a category B total loss. I think RSA was entitled to rely on the 
engineers technical expertise, given that Ms W hasnt produced conflicting  evidence from 
another engineer thats more persuasive.   
Ms W doesnt think it was right for RSA to ask firm C to collect the van and ask her to sign it 
over before the engineer  had confirmed the total loss category. RSA was confident that 
taking those steps was reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont  think what it did had an 
adverse impact on Ms W. Had the initial prediction  been wrong   and the van turned out to 
be a repairable  total loss - RSA would normally have looked at the options  available to Ms W 
under the policy.  Had that happened, she could have taken back ownership of the van and it 
could have been repaired by RSA. But the normal options wouldnt have applied in this case. 
As the vans  driver at the time of the accident wasnt  named on the policy, there  was no 
cover under the policy for the damage shed  caused. 
In any event, RSAs  predicted  outcome proved to be correct.  As the van was a category B 
total loss, Ms W couldnt have had it repaired (even  if shed still owned it) given that it could 
never be returned to the road.  RSA was still investigating the claim at that point.  Had it been 
valid, RSA would have  offered Ms W the vans pre-accident market value, as repairing  it 
wouldnt have been an option. But as the claim wasnt valid, Ms W lost out, as her options 
were then limited. One option was to take the van back to sell the parts / salvage herself. 
Another was to allow firm C to sell it for her, or buy the salvage. Unfortunately,  whatever she 
did, Ms W was bound to get a much smaller small sum for the van that she would otherwise 
have done, due to its category B status  and the fact that the claim wasnt  covered.    
Ms W wasnt offered the disposal options for the van until December 2018, so for several  
months after she made the claim she wasnt able to do anything. She thinks the van 
deteriorated during that time,  but theres nothing to show  thats  correct.  And I think  it was 
reasonable for RSA to investigate all the facts before making  its decision.  That included  
waiting for a written  police report.  I dont think RSA could have been expected to rely on the 
partial (second-hand) details about the driver that Ms W provided in her initial  call to RSA, as 
shes suggested. 
Apart from reviewing the facts around the accident and the driver, RSA also had to 
investigate how the van was being used  before  the accident. It thought  there may be 
grounds to void the policy. That issue isnt part of this complaint. But as a separate  set of 
Ref: DRN86248143facts had to be established in relation to the potential voidance, the overall investigation 
would always have  taken  longer than had the accident alone been  reviewed.
I have great  sympathy  for the position  Ms W finds herself in. She had no involvement in any 
of the issues RSA had to investigate, yet she was left with only the salvage value of a 
category B total loss vehicle.  Ms W also faced very difficult personal circumstances whilst 
the investigations were  ongoing, which can only have made matters much worse  for her. But 
I have to decide whether Ms W has shown that RSA acted  unreasonably.  As I dont think 
shes been able to do that, I cant uphold  her complaint.                
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8624814