K821x#15complaint
Mrs A has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when  she applied for a credit  card.  She says she wasnt  
aware she had a choice about  taking the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 7 November 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  the
complaint should  be upheld  and what I think Barclays should do to put things  right.
Mrs As representative confirmed she had nothing further to add.
Barclays responded by saying  it would  be making an offer in line with my provisional 
decision. It also said if Mrs A wanted  to accept its offer of £50 for the delay in her complaint 
being looked into, she should do so separately from acceptance of the mis-sale offer. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me any additional  information for my consideration, I see no 
reason to alter my provisional decision and confirm  those findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs As complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should calculate  redress as outlined  in my provisional decision. If 
Mrs A wishes to accept the additional £50 offered for the delay in her complaint being 
considered, she should  do so separately  when Barclays Bank UK PLC makes its offer to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81855622copy of provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she applied  for a credit card. She says she wasnt aware  she had a 
choice about taking the PPI.
Background
Mrs A applied for a credit  card by postal application in June  2000. At the same time, she also took a 
PPI policy  to protect her monthly repayments if she wasnt able to work  because  of ill health or she 
lost her job.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and thought it should be upheld.  Barclays disagreed  
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive provisionally decided this PPI policy  was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Mrs A applied for her credit card and PPI by postal application so Barclays didn't recommend the 
policy to her. As it wasnt an advised sale, Barclays didn't  have to make sure the policy was right for 
Mrs A. But it did need to give Mrs A enough information about the PPI so she could  make her own 
mind up.
The credit  card application  shows  that Mrs A ticked the box to take the PPI but I note it didn't give any 
other information about the policy such as details of the costs, when  a claim could be made or outline 
any circumstances when a claim wouldnt be successful. Barclays has said the policy  summary would 
have been included with the application but this is a detailed document  for Mrs A to have understood.
And I think this would  have mattered to Mrs A as she had two jobs  both for more than 16 hours per 
week  so it was unlikely she would  have been able to benefit  from the policy. This  is because for 
Mrs A to have  made a successful claim  she would have had to have been no longer employed in 
either of her roles and have no work which would seem  unlikely.
Barclays didn't agree with our adjudicators  conclusion  that the complaint should  be upheld.
It said that Mrs A had been inconsistent with her testimony  about her employment  circumstances at 
the time of the sale.  I do appreciate this point but am also aware that the sale was nearly 20 years 
ago so I wouldnt  be surprised if Mrs A couldnt immediately recall her start dates etc for the roles. 
And Mrs A has been  consistent in her recollections with this service.
Barclays has also pointed out that Mrs A banked with it in 2000 and it could only see one main source 
of income being credited  to her bank  account.  But Mrs A has told us she had another bank account 
with a different provider  and her salary from her second job was paid into that account. And 
unfortunately Mrs A doesnt  have any statements available from that long ago, but again, I dont find 
this surprising as I wouldnt  expect for paperwork to be kept indefinitely.
Ref: DRN81855623I dont have any reason not to take Mrs As testimony at face value and am persuaded  that she did 
have two jobs,  both of which  were for more than 16 hours per week. And I think  that because  of this, it 
was unlikely Mrs A would  have been able to benefit from having the policy so have provisionally  
decided to uphold  the complaint.
putting things  right
Barclays should put Mrs A in the financial  position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken  out
PPI.
     A.    Barclays  should find out how much Mrs A would have owed when she closed her
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the missale
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund  the difference between what Mrs A owed when she
closed her account  and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
    B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A would
have owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the
refund. The interest rate 8% a year.
    C.  If  when Barclays works out what Mrs A would  have owed each month without PPI 
she paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple
interest on the extra Mrs A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Mrs A would have  owed Barclays something on her credit card.  The interest
rate should be 8% a year.
     D. Barclays should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
When Barclays reviewed  Mrs As complaint it noted that she had provided some  information that 
could have enabled Barclays to progress her complaint in December  2017,  but this was not acted 
upon so her complaint  remained dormant when it shouldnt have done. In recognition  of this Barclays 
has asked me to apologise  on its behalf to Mrs A and offer her £50 for the trouble she was caused by 
the delay.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I provisionally uphold  Mrs As complaint.
Provisionally, Barclays Bank  UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Please could  Barclays  Bank UK PLC and Mrs A send  me any more  information  or
comments to look at by 7 December 2019. After  that, Ill issue my final decision.
Mrs A should also decide if she wishes  to accept the offer of £50 made  by
Barclays Bank UK PLC for the trouble it caused her by delaying Mrs As complaint being
looked into.
Ref: DRN8185562