K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) refuses to cover  the full cost of a trip she 
had to cancel  when she made  a claim under a travel insurance  policy. The policy  was held 
by Ms S through  her bank account.
background
In April 2018, Ms S booked a holiday for herself  and her sister to go in mid-June 2018. It cost 
just under £9,000 in total. In early May, an amendment to the holiday was made to upgrade  
their flights.  This cost an additional £3,200. The total cost of the holiday was therefore just 
under £12,200.
Ms S father fell ill and was admitted to hospital shortly before she was due to go on holiday. 
Ms S contacted AXA to let them know what had happened as she wasnt sure if shed need  
to cancel the trip. Ms S amended her travel plans to delay  the start of her holiday so she had 
more time to make a decision about whether to cancel it. This cost just under £950  in total. 
However, her fathers condition deteriorated and Ms S and her sister cancelled  their holiday.
Ms S contacted AXA to claim the cost of cancelling her trip. Her sister was claiming  her half 
of the costs through her own insurance policy. So, the amount Ms S was claiming  being  
half of the total cost  was just under £6,600. This included the cost of upgrading the flights 
and making amendments to delay the start of the holiday. 
In late June, Ms S says she spoke to someone at AXA and was told that any amendment 
would be covered. Also, she says she wasnt told about a limit. Later in June she says she 
spoke to another person  at AXA and was told the cost of the second amendment  just 
under £500   wasnt included but the rest was being considered. She says she was given  
the impression  that the balance would be paid and still wasnt  told about a limit.
In July 2018, AXA paid £5,000 into Ms Ss account. But Ms S says she wasnt  told this was 
going to happen and didnt realise it had until she saw the money in her account.  Ms S is 
unhappy that her claim has been  paid but only up to the limit of £5,000.  And she feels  the 
costs of the amendments  should be covered. She also doesnt feel she was kept informed. 
Ms S complained to AXA about the claim and service shed received.
AXA says that during  the call in June, Ms S was told that itd only cover  the cancellation 
costs as amendments  arent covered. However,  it said that itd consider paying  amendment 
costs where the cost of an amendment is cheaper  than a full cancellation. So it didnt agree 
to pay the costs of the amendment or any amount above  the policy limit of £5,000 for 
cancellation.
AXA says it didnt tell Ms S about  the cancellation cover limit of £5,000 during the claims 
process. It felt this fell below its standards of service and paid £50 to compensate  her for any 
distress and inconvenience this caused.
As AXA didnt uphold the part of Ms Ss complaint  which  related to the limit on her 
cancellation cover, she came to our service.  Ms S would like AXA to pay for the remaining 
balance of the holiday on top of what it has already  paid to her.
Ref: DRN84642012Our investigator looked into matters and thought that the action  taken by AXA was fair and in 
line with the policy terms. Whilst she acknowledged the cost of the holiday - including  the 
cost of the upgrade - is more than £5,000,  she explained that AXA are only required to pay a 
maximum benefit of £5,000 for cancellation under  the terms of the policy.
She also thought  AXA kept Ms S updated throughout the claims process,  by email, letter and 
on the phone, and was told about the policy limit on two occasions before the money was 
paid into her account. The policy limit was also clearly set out in the policy documents.
So she didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Ms S disagrees. She says the investigator was incorrect in that she wouldnt have said the 
cost of the holiday was £575 when it was significantly more  during a call with AXA.  She feels 
sure this refers to the possible cost to delay her flight  and not the total cost of the trip. She 
also disputes receiving  some of the emails from AXA about the payment of the claim.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms S that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
AXA has included the original cost of the holiday and the upgrade - costing around £9,000  
and £3,200 respectively - in the claim it assessed and paid to Ms S. Therefore, Ms Ss share 
of these two costs is just under £6,100. This exceeds the policy limit for cancellation. So I 
think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay up to the policy  limit, less any excess, which  is 
what it has done in this matter.
Whilst AXA hasnt included the cost of the amendment to delay the start of the holiday - 
which had a total cost of just under £950 - I think  this decision is fair and reasonable. I say 
this because:
-In the first call Ms S had made to AXA, it explained that it didnt cover  amendment costs 
under the terms of the policy. 
-AXA went onto say that it would look at the costs of amending  the holiday if they were 
less than the cost of cancelling  the trip as itd be silly  not to do this. 
-The first call made  to AXA was one day after the amendment to delay the start of the 
holiday had been  made and paid for in any event  and so the costs of the amendment had 
already been incurred.
-Ms S is seeking  to recover the costs  of both amending  the holiday and cancelling  it. But I 
think the advisor was clear that the cost of amending  a trip - so that cancellation could be 
avoided - would  be considered by the insurer as the sensible thing to do where the cost of 
Ref: DRN84642013amending was cheaper than cancelling. But this wasnt a guarantee that amendment 
costs would be covered   either alone or in addition  to cancellation  costs.
-Even if I thought the costs of the change to delay the start of the holiday should be 
covered by AXA, Ms Ss claim already exceeds the policy limit for cancelled holidays. 
And, by the time Ms S got in touch with AXA, the total cost of her part of the holiday 
already exceeded  the policy limit for cancellation  cover.   
 
AXA says it didnt tell Ms S about  the cancellation cover limit of £5,000. And it feels  this fell 
below its standards  of service and paid £50 to compensate her for any distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
Having thought about this particular point, I dont think  that AXA should do anything  more to 
put things right in this respect. Having listened  to the first call Ms S made  to AXA about a 
possible cancellation or change to the holiday, the advisor says What cost was your full 
holiday anyhow?. Ms S says Ill give you exactly,  Ill give you roughly actually - £575 . I can 
appreciate this might have been  a mistake  as the holiday itself cost significantly more and I 
dont think Ms S forgot  about  this. However,  I can also understand why the call handler at 
AXA didnt go on to discuss  the excess being £5,000 at that time. Even  so, I think the limit on 
cancellation cover  is clearly set out in the policy document and was mentioned to Ms S at 
other points  during the claims process. So Im not asking AXA to do anything  more than it 
has already done  by paying £50 to Ms S.
I appreciate Ms S disputes that she received the emails from AXA keeping her up to date 
about the claim and says she received  the letter after the payment had been  made  into her 
account. However, the evidence Ive seen suggests  that the emails were  sent to Ms S using 
the correct email address for her which AXA has used  to successfully get in touch with Ms S 
at other  times. So I dont  think I can say its more likely she didnt receive these emails.
I know Ms S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with AXA  can do for her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8464201