K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as MINI 
financial services, didnt  return his deposit  quickly enough and changed  a direct debit date 
without his authorisation.
background 
Mr M took receipt of a used car in February 2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS and as there was negative equity in his previous vehicle 
he also took out a fixed  sum loan at the same time for £2,000.
The dealership asked for a returnable deposit  of £200 to secure the car but Mr M complains 
that whilst  he collected the car on 20 February  2018  the deposit  wasnt  returned until 7 
March 2018. 
He also complains that he received a letter on 7 March 2018  to say his direct debit had been 
changed to 1 April 2018 but that he didnt ask for or approve this change. He was concerned  
that this may affect his credit  rating.
BMWFS said the copy  of the direct debit  mandate requesting direct debits on 1 April had 
been signed by Mr M so they didnt think theyd  done anything wrong when setting the 
payment date for 1 April 2018. They said the deposit that was paid by Mr Ms wife to hold the 
car was an agreement she had with the dealership and which wasnt covered by the 
agreement they had with Mr M. They offered him £50 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
But Mr M was dissatisfied  with their response  and he therefore referred his complaint to this 
service where our adjudicator provided his opinion. He noted  the signed  copy  of the direct  
debit on which a date of 1 April had been noted.  He understood that BMWFS  had been 
provided with this by the dealership and he didnt think  theyd  been  wrong  to act on it. 
He explained  that the dealership had offered to fill Mr Ms tank up with petrol  in 
compensation for the delay in returning  the deposit  and that BMWFS had offered £50 
compensation and he thought this was reasonable in the circumstances. So overall he didnt  
think BMWFS  needed  to take any further  action.
But Mr M didnt agree  and he asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN86421862board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The first payment date would usually be 30 days after the agreement date but thats been 
manually adjusted by BMWFS because thats  what the signed direct debit mandates told 
them. In those circumstances,  whilst  I dont  dispute what Mr M believes to be the case,  Im 
not persuaded theres sufficient evidence  to suggest  he didnt ask for the change. BMWFS  
have confirmed that payments werent  missed  and Mr Ms credit file has not therefore been 
adversely affected  so I dont think it would be fair to ask BMWFS to take any further  action.
The return  of the deposit was clearly  delayed by a few weeks.  I dont think it forms part of the 
finance agreements  that Mr M agreed to and I dont  think BMWFS  can fairly be held 
responsible. And even  if Im wrong  on that I think the offer of a free tank of petrol from the 
dealership and £50 from BMWFS,  which  I believe  has already been  paid to Mr Ms bank 
account, is sufficient  compensation for a delay of that length. So again,  I dont think it would 
be reasonable to ask BMWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642186