K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way a claim for water damage under her home  insurance policy 
has been handled by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
background
In 2013 Mrs Bs home was damaged by two water  leaks. AXA accepted the claim and 
carried out repairs. Mrs B was very unhappy with how the repairs were carried  out. AXA 
agreed the repairs had taken too long and paid her £1,900 compensation for that. Mrs B 
complained to this service.
In February 2017  another ombudsman upheld her complaint in part. Since Mrs B didnt 
accept the final decision by the deadline, neither she nor AXA were bound by it. Mrs B 
thought she should have  been awarded considerably  more  compensation.
Unfortunately it then became clear that AXAs suppliers hadnt made sure Mrs Bs property 
was dry. Since it was still damp, the works  to the kitchen and lounge  had to be stripped out 
and redone. That meant  Mrs B and her family  had to move out of the property again while 
AXA put this right.
Mrs B made a further complaint to AXA about the trouble and upset  it had caused  her and 
her family. She also said due to house prices  increasing in the meantime and her personal 
circumstances changing for the worse, it had made it more difficult for her to move  to a larger 
property. In August  2017 AXA said it had made an offer of a further £2,000 compensation 
which Mrs B had rejected  at the time.  It wasnt prepared to increase that offer.
In 2018 Mrs B made a further complaint  that AXA hadnt taken her concerns about the works 
seriously. AXA didnt  agree.  It said it had appointed  an independent third party to draw  up a 
scope of works. It thought that was a reasonable response.
Mrs Bs brought another complaint to this service. Our investigator thought AXA should  pay 
Mrs B £2,500 for the trouble and upset  it had caused her since February 2017.
As Mrs B didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are well aware  of the history of this claim. In making an offer of compensation 
AXA has accepted  that it could have  handled this claim  better. Ill look at whether this offer 
was fair. 
I cant look at anything  which was considered  by the ombudsman  who issued a decision on 
the earlier complaint  brought by Mrs B. I know that he took into account amongst other 
things the effect  on Mrs B of the delay  in repairing her property, the inconvenience caused  to 
her and the fact that she couldnt sell her house  while waiting for it to be repaired. That 
means that in respect of those  issues  Ill only be looking  at how AXA has handled Mrs Bs 
claim since 23 December 2016.
Ref: DRN82579802When looking at a complaint I usually consider matters  up to the time the financial business 
issued its final response to the complaint  (which is when it told the consumer they could 
bring their complaint  to us). On 9 August 2017 AXA issued a final response on Mrs Bs 
complaint about the fact that she had to move out of her home once again in order for further 
works to be carried out due to AXAs failure to ensure Mrs Bs home would remain dry. On 7 
August 2018 it issued a further final response about delays. So Ill look at how AXA handled 
matters from 23 December  2016 to 7 August 2018. 
At the start of this period Mrs B was once again living in a property  with a serious damp 
problem. The tiles were  coming off her kitchen wall and there were  silverfish behind them 
indicating dampness. She moved  into alternative accommodation in September 2017 while  
these problems were  fixed and was still there 18 months later.  This meant  that once again 
she had to put her plans  to move on hold. She was worried  about  the effect of this on her 
family who were suffering  from various serious  health and psychological problems at the 
time. Mrs B was also in the process  of starting a new business, having been made 
redundant from her previous job. I can understand that all this would have  caused  her 
mental health issues.
A further  year passed after AXAs offer of £2,000 compensation. During that time there  were  
disagreements about the works. I think appointing an independent expert was a constructive 
way forward in the circumstances. Its not clear to me whether  the expert agreed with the 
evidence Mrs B asked him to consider. So I cant fairly hold AXA responsible for this extra  
delay. 
I accept that Mrs B wanted  to move home but I cant be sure that she would have otherwise 
been able to if there hadnt been  this problem with the repairs. I also cant be sure what 
financial loss, if any, she might have suffered by the delay. Ive taken the non-financial 
aspect of this into account  when looking at the overall trouble and upset caused to Mrs B by 
AXAs poor claim handling. Shes undoubtedly been  through a very distressing time.  I 
recognise that she feels she should receive  considerably more compensation than I am 
going to award.  Im sorry to disappoint  her but overall I think compensation of £2,500 is 
appropriate to compensate her for the severe  trouble and upset AXAs  caused her during the 
period in question. This is in line with what Ive awarded in similar cases.
Mrs B is also unhappy in the increase  in her insurance premiums  since the claim started. 
She may also have  a complaint about matters that have happened after the date of AXAs  
second final decision letter. In these respects  she may be able to bring  a further complaint to 
this service. But she needs to go through AXAs complaint process first and refer back to us 
if shes not satisfied  with its response.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs B £2,500  
compensation for the trouble and upset  its caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257980