K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Lex Autolease Ltd misled her as to the settlement figure for a leased 
van when the agreement was terminated early. 
background
In June 2017 Ms L entered into a five year lease agreement for a van. Unfortunately, shortly 
after acquiring the vehicle Ms Ls financial position changed and she found that she would 
struggle to make the monthly payments.  Ms L contact Lex Autolease  and asked what  her 
options were.
Lex Autolease said that Ms L could either sell the van as its agent and raise the settlement 
amount quoted or pay 50% of the remaining  rental due under the agreement.  Ms L chose to 
keep the van and continue to make  the monthly  payments.
However after a further six months Ms L contacted  Lex Autolease and was again  given  the 
two options open to her to end the lease. Ms L requested the settlement figure. Ms L says 
the figure she received was for around £14,000.  She then contacted a third party company 
and agreed a sale for the van for £12,850.  Ms L says she understood she would have to 
make up the shortfall  and she paid a further  £2000 towards the settlement figure.
Ms L says she thought  that the account  was settled  and closed  but several weeks later she 
received three further invoices from Lex Autolease for £3,970.66, £321.25 and £10. Ms L 
says she asked Autolease  for an explanation but didnt receive one. She complained to Lex 
Autolease about  its handling of her ending the lease early.
Lex Autolease didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint but its response letter  dealt with whether  there  
had been delays between itself and the third party company  that had purchased the van. Ms 
L complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. She said Lex 
Autolease sent Ms L a settlement figure at her request  in May 2018. This letter set out that 
amount was £14,017.21 excluding VAT. Our adjudicator said it appeared Ms L had 
misinterpreted that figure and hadnt considered that she needed  to add the 20% VAT on 
top.
Our adjudicator said that Lex Autolease hadnt  caused any delays in Ms L selling the van to 
the third party.  
Ms L disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said she wasnt  complaining  about  any 
delays in the sale of the van but about Lex Autoleases lack of clear or fair information about 
how best to settle  the lease agreement. And if it had been clear  that the shortfall was so 
significant she wouldnt have proceeded with the sale.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85406452Ive seen that Ms L received the settlement form from Lex Autolease  in May 2018. This says 
the early settlement figure  for the van is £14,017.21  EXCL  VAT  plus any arrears. This 
means that the total amount to be repaid was £16,820.65. Ms L signed and returned this 
form to Lex Autolease.
Ive seen Ms L secured a sales price  of £12,850 and so the shortfall was £3970.66. This was 
the amount required by one of the three  invoices received by Ms L after the van had been 
sold. The other two invoices were for £321.26  disposal  fee and a £10 parking fine that had 
been incurred.
Ms L was also three months in arrears  on her payments adding  a further £782.26  to the 
outstanding amount bringing it to a total of £5,084.18.   
I appreciate that the outstanding amount  has come  as a shock to Ms L and she feels  
strongly that Lex Autolease wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been about the figures. But I think  
the settlement  form is clear that the figure  given  doesnt have the VAT added  to it. And while  
I accept it wouldve been more helpful to give the total figure I cant reasonably say that the 
letter is misleading as EXCL VAT was written  in capitals next to the amount, and it wasnt 
hidden in the letter.
Ms L says after shed asked for the settlement figure she received the letter  and so had 
assumed the amount given as the total outstanding  amount. She says she isnt an 
experienced business person, only a private individual but Lex Autolease  treated her as 
though she should be aware  of the processes  and procedures it used. 
While I appreciate Ms L has been  through a difficult time both financially and personally, I 
think most people would understand what EXCL VAT means. And if Ms L had been  unclear 
what that referred to then I think it would be reasonable to expect her to have queried it at 
the time.  
Ms L says she wouldnt have agreed the sale price of the vehicle if shed known the shortfall 
wouldve been as great as it was. But I have to take into account that Ms L needed a quick  
sale as she was getting further into arrears  with the agreement and A quick sale generally 
means  the price has to be lower. So I dont think I can reasonably say that Ms L wouldnt 
have found herself  owing a similar amount if shed tried another  way to sell the van.
And as she was three months in arrears at the time she sold the vehicle I dont think it would 
be likely  that keeping  the vehicle was a realistic prospect in the circumstances.
Looking at the evidence Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint which  I know will be of 
disappointment to her. However I would expect Lex Autolease to treat Ms Ls situation 
sympathetically and set an appropriate payment plan.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Ref: DRN85406453Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8540645