K820x#14complaint
Miss Ds complaint against First Rate Exchange Services  Ltd (First  Rate) concerns a refund 
she believes  shes due.
background
In April 2018, Miss D tried to open/activate  three Post Office travel money cards, provided by 
First Rate.
The first card was dormant, with zero value. Miss D accepts this. The second card was 
deposited with £50, and the same for the third card.
Miss D had difficulties with both the second and third cards. The third was taken out when 
the second wouldnt work, was lost, and then appeared  to be being used fraudulently.  
The current  situation  is that Miss Ds received £50 back  for the deposit  she made on the 
second card,  but not £50 for the third. She believes shes due this, as it was money she 
loaded onto it and shes now out of pocket.
Miss D complained to our service, and our first Investigator upheld her complaint, saying she 
should receive back the £49.92 she proved by bank  statement that she loaded onto the third 
card. 
But First Rate  disagreed.  It showed  us that no balance  remained on that card as the money 
had all been spent,  so there was nothing left to refund. 
Miss D said she didnt  spend the money,  but the records  showed  that all but one of the 
payments were made  by chip and PIN. Which could only reasonably  have been  in the 
possession of, and known, to her.
The complaint was then passed to a new Investigator dealing with disputed transactions, 
who reviewed the evidence  speaking again  to both parties  and concluded that he 
couldnt ask First Rate to refund  Miss D after all.
Miss D was unhappy with this outcome,  and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our second Investigator,  who said that he couldnt 
ask First Rate to refund  Miss D. 
I know this will be disappointing for Miss D, as she feels shes out of pocket for not only the 
£50 concerned in this complaint, but also for a further £300 she says was loaded  onto her 
second card by a friend - but which she concedes she cant  prove so is not insisting on in 
this complaint.
Id like to explain why I think this outcome is fair.
Ref: DRN88309712I think our Investigator  did a comprehensive job of explaining to Miss D why it wouldnt be 
fair for him to ask First Rate to refund her a further  £50, when the evidence pointed  to the 
fact that she herself  had spent this money. 
In doing so, he made reference to the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and explained 
why he felt these  payments  were authenticated and authorised/consented  to by Miss D. 
By way of recap - the regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services  Regulations  
2017 (the PSRs 2017). These explain that a payment out of someones  account  can only be 
authorised if the payer has consented  to it. The payment service  provider must show  the 
payment was authenticated. But its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that 
the card and PIN were used; as that doesnt  necessarily  mean  that the payment transaction  
was authorised by the account  holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will
usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,  banks  will be 
liable for unauthorised payments. 
Ive looked carefully  at the evidence available, and Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that Miss D spent the money on the card  in other  words the spending was authorised and 
consented to by Miss D - which  means  theres nothing left for First Rate to repay her.
I say this because  I dont think its feasible that a third party, unknown to her, obtained the 
card and the PIN to enable them to carry out the spending. The card PIN was sent to Miss 
Ds mobile phone,  and the card was activated also by her mobile. Miss Ds confirmed that he 
phone has its own security PIN, known only to her. 
Im satisfied from the records Ive seen  that nobody other than Miss D herself  could have 
activated the card and thereafter used it for chip and PIN payments. As such, I cant  say the 
transactions were  unauthorised, and cant ask First Rate to refund them.
It follows, that as theres no remaining balance in the account,  theres  nothing  left to be 
returned to Miss D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8830971