K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection 
with her roadside assistance insurance  policy.
Ms Cs policy  is branded in the name  of a car manufacturer. But the service  is delivered by a 
well-known motoring organisation (MO). Acromas underwrites  a specific  part of the car 
manufacturers branded  policy,  titled relay plus. So Acromas is responsible for complaints 
relating to the actions under that part of the policy. And the MO acts as Acromas agent  in 
delivering the services  its responsible for. So for ease Ill refer to the actions of the MO as 
being those of Acromas  except where  those actions  arent the responsibility of Acromas  and 
the MO was providing  another  service such as breakdown  recovery.
background
On a Saturday in March  2018 Ms Cs car broke-down while she was away  on a family trip. 
She rang the MO. It said that it could either  arrange for her car, together with Ms C and her 
family, to be recovered to her home address  the next day (Sunday) or it could arrange a hire 
car the next day. Ms C chose to let the MO recover her.
The following  day the MO attended.  Its recovery driver told Ms C that he couldnt take her 
family all the way home in one journey so hed ask Acromas to arrange a hire car for her. But 
four hours later Ms C still didn't have a hire car. So she borrowed a car off a family member 
in order to return her family  150 miles to their home. That meant that Ms C also had to 
arrange to return  the car to the family  member  whod  lent it to her. A round trip of around 300 
miles.
Ms C brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2020. For 
ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done its likely Ill uphold  it.  
In bringing this complaint, Ms Cs made a number of points. But in this decision I will focus 
on what I see as being the key outstanding issues.
Complaints about  the actions  of the MO in connection with roadside recovery are outside  of 
my jurisdiction. But as Ive said above  actions taken in connection with the relay plus section 
of the policy  is the responsibility of Acromas. In this case  those actions relate  to the provision 
of a hire car and actions ancillary to that, which includes advice and information Acromas  (or 
the MO acting as its agent) provided in connection  with that. 
I've listened  to the call when Ms C reported her breakdown. She made  it clear  that she 
hadn't been in this position  before.  And she asked for advice about what she should  do. She 
was given the option of allowing  the MO to recover her or of taking a hire car. Acromas told 
her that if she chose a hire car she would need to get to an international airport in order  to 
pick the car up. I understand that the airport was a considerable distance away and would 
have taken around 40 minutes to get there if the roads were  clear. But there  was some 
exceptionally heavy  snowfall that weekend  so the roads were unlikely to be clear and the 
journey time was likely  to be longer.  Acromas  told Ms C that it would arrange a taxi for her in 
order to take her to the airport if she chose to do that but I can understand why that might 
not have been an attractive option.  
Ref: DRN83238932The other choice  presented  to Ms C was to allow the MO to recover her. She was told that 
the MO could take her and her family  home in the recovery truck. She wasn't given any 
explanation that, owing  to the rules  about  how long recovery  truck  drivers are allowed to 
drive for, that journey  would likely  have to be spilt into sections and could require a number 
of changes - a relay  - of recovery vehicles. 
Acromas has a number of providers of hire cars nearer to Ms Cs location  than the airport, so 
I asked it why it told her that she would  have to travel there  in order  to pick up a hire car. 
Given the passage  of time Acromas hasn't been able to satisfactorily answer that question  
now. Its speculated that was because the local hire car providers  might  have been closed. 
But I don't  think  that's the case  as Acromas contacted a hire provider that was only around 
seven miles away from Ms Cs location  the next day. And if Acromas  had given  Ms C the 
right information from the outset then she might have made a different decision about 
whether or not to take a hire car the next day. And that might have avoided some  of the 
issues she encountered.  
I've noted  that the MO told Ms C to expect  its recovery driver to arrive between 10am and 
12 noon. The truck driver arrived shortly before noon. The truck  driver advised Ms C that 
owing to the fractured nature of her journey home  using the recovery  trucks she would be 
better off arranging a hire car. He contacted  Acromas at 12.15pm  in order to put those 
wheels in motion.
I've noted  that in its final response  letter to Ms Cs complaint  Acromas  said that it had initially 
ordered a hire car at 12.04pm. That clearly isnt accurate as that was seemingly before it 
learned that Ms C wanted a hire car. And the first record  I can see of Acromas even 
considering requesting a hire car is at 1.38pm. This is around 83 minutes after Ms C had 
apparently been  told she could expect  a car. And the first record I can see of the hire car 
company acknowledging the request for the hire car is at 2.13pm. Almost two full hours after 
Ms C said she wanted a hire car. I understand that, given  the extreme weather conditions at 
the time,  there was a greatly increased  demand  on Acromas service  and perhaps on the 
hire car company as well, which has likely  made the delays worse. But as I've said above if 
Acromas had advised Ms C appropriately the previously day, and it had booked  the hire car 
then, these problems  could likely have been avoided.
But it seems  that although  the hire car was authorised by 2.13pm, some two hours  later it 
still hadn't arrived. Ive seen that the hire car company apparently told Ms C, at around 
4.30pm, that it had only just received the hire car request. But its not clear  why that was as 
Acromas had clearly asked for the car earlier and the hire car company had authorised that 
request by 2.13pm. But in any event, by that time given that some four hours  had passed, 
there was still no sign of the hire car and Ms C needed to get home as her children had 
school the following day she arranged alternative  transport and borrowed a car. And in those 
circumstances I think Ms C's decision to take matters into her own hands  was reasonable.
As she had to borrow a car then she also had to return it. That means that rather  than simply 
making one journey home. Ms C or someone  acting for her, would have to make  three  
journeys: the initial journey home, a journey to return  the car from where it was borrowed  
and then to travel home again. I understand that, apart from the inconvenience that also 
brought with it extra  expense.
I asked Ms C for evidence  of the expenses that she incurred in making that journey. Ms Cs 
provided us with three receipts for fuel. But one of those is dated the day before  she 
Ref: DRN83238933borrowed the car. And this is almost certainly a receipt for the fuel she put in her own car -  
which the MO recovered. So I don't think Acromas needs to reimburse her for that as it 
wasn't an additional cost because of Acromas poor service.  The other two receipts come to 
a total of £60.24. And, as I've described above, given that Ms C  or someone acting for her 
 was forced to make  three journeys rather than one, I think  its reasonable that Acromas  
reimburses her for the fuel costs. It should add simple interest to that at a rate of 8% a year, 
from the date Ms C bought the fuel, 19 March 2018,  to the date it reimburses  her.
Acromas has argued that if Ms C had waited a little longer then the hire car would have been 
provided and she wouldnt have incurred all those extra costs. But as Ive said above given 
the severe delays  and the misinformation shed  already encountered I think  Ms Cs decision  
to borrow a car was reasonable.
Ms C also said that she had extra expenses because she and her family had to buy lunch 
while waiting for the hire car. But I think its likely that Ms C would most likely have had to 
buy lunch anyway after the MOs recovery driver arrived.  So I don't intend to make an award  
for that specifically.
Ms Cs also said that she received misleading  live feeds about when she could expect to 
receive her hire car. But Acromas doesn't have any record of those. And the only evidence 
Ms C has provided of this is an update from the MO the previous day about  the arrival of its 
recovery patrol. So I havent seen evidence, beyond  Ms Cs comments,  that Acromas did 
provide misleading  texts  or online updates about the hire car. 
But I can understand that Ms C was very frustrated with Acromas  service. Shed been told 
that in order to collect a hire car shed need  to travel  to an airport  that wasnt nearby when 
that wasn't the case. So she hadn't been  given the right information on which to make  an 
informed decision about whether or not a hire car was the most suitable  option for her. She 
was then told to wait for a hire car that didn't ever arrive. She was then forced to make two 
additional journeys in order to return a borrowed car. And I can understand that those events 
added to Ms Cs distress and inconvenience at what was already a stressful time.  So to put 
things right I think Acromas should  pay Ms C a further £100 compensation.
developments 
Acromas didn't agree with my provisional decision and made a number of points. Amongst 
other things  it said that by the time Ms C discussed a hire car its hire car provider had closed 
for the weekend. So it said that the hire car providers branches  were all closed save for 
their airport  branches.  It said that this isn't speculation but fact, which  explained why it 
would have advised Ms C she would need  to travel  to the airport  to collect a hire car.
Acromas added that Ms C had made  it clear  that a hire car wasn't a priority to her. So it 
didn't believe  it had misinformed  her. It also said that it didn't think the information  it had 
given to Ms C caused her to decline the hire car. It said its policy  doesn't refer to rules that 
would prevent the recovery driver  from taking Ms C all the way home and this was possible if 
it had been the drivers first job of the day. But that wouldnt have  been  known at the time of 
the call.
Acromas said that I concluded  that - given the distance to the airport  and the weather 
conditions - it was reasonable that Ms C declined that option.  It said that using the same  
reasoning then Ms Cs decision  to accept recovery by truck  wouldn't  have changed. And its 
pointed out that it did offer to arrange  a taxi to take Ms C to collect  the hire car. But Ms C still 
elected for the recovery truck to take her home. Its agreed that pre-booking the hire car 
Ref: DRN83238934would likely  have removed the delays Ms C experienced  on the Sunday  but as shed chosen 
not to take that option it had no reasons  to pre-book.
Further Acromas said the policy  says that, where  the hire car isnt needed immediately, it 
can't guarantee its availability. Similarly, the policy says that as resources are limited 
Acromas won't be liable for service failures where  circumstances are outside its control. 
And the policy gives examples of such circumstances  including snow  or other bad weather 
conditions.
Also Acromas said it thought that the compensation  and costs I had awarded  were 
disproportionate to its contribution to delays, which it put at 83 minutes.  But it said that 
every effort was made to expedite the process for the consumer [Ms C] until such  time that 
we received instruction from her to cancel and re-arrange.
Finally Acromas noted that in an early email  exchange Ms C had referred  to a response to 
her complaint to the dealer who sold her the car that broke  down. It noted that Ms C had 
referred to the dealer offering three years servicing  and MOTs  as well as covering expenses  
by way of compensation. So it asked me to review my findings.
I made  some further enquiries of Ms C. She provided me with copies of emails in which  the 
dealer who sold her car had agreed to provide free MOTs  and service  because of the part it 
played in Ms Cs breakdown. But those don't show that the dealer agreed to cover  Ms Cs 
fuel costs.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not minded to change 
my provisional decision. 
Acromas said that at the time Ms C rang for help then her only option for picking up a hire 
car that weekend was at an airport branch. But I don't think  thats right. Before  arriving at my 
provisional decision I asked Acromas to explain why its call handler  might have said Ms C 
would have to travel to the airport. It said that it couldnt say for certain but that it might  be 
because the hire car providers local branches  were  closed.  
That might have been the case  but that doesn't mean that Ms C would have been forced to 
travel to the airport. In fact the hire car provider has local out of hours agents not at airports  
that can provide  cars. And one of those was only about seven miles away  from where Ms C 
was located. That explains why, when Ms C did ask for a hire car on the Sunday,  Acromas  
didn't tell her shed  need to travel  to the airport  to collect one. If it was the case that was her 
only option then that would have  been  the case on the Sunday.  But it wasnt.  So I don't think 
that it is a fact that Ms Cs only option  would have  been to travel to the airport. It follows  
that I don't think Acromas  gave Ms C the correct advice when it told her shed need to do 
that. 
Acromas doesn't  believe that the advice  its call handler gave  Ms C misled  her into accepting  
the recovery truck option rather than a hire car. I agree that it was Ms Cs choice not to take 
the hire car option when she spoke with Acromas on the Saturday evening. But I think that 
Acromas could have advised  her better  in the circumstances.  For example, I referred to 
Acromas not explaining that there  were  rules  that limit how long recovery drivers can drive 
for. I think Acromas might have misunderstood my point here.  I agree that its policy doesn't  
Ref: DRN83238935refer to any such rules. But all heavy  goods vehicle and passenger  service  vehicle drivers in 
the UK, and indeed  the EU, are governed by legislation that limits  the time they are allowed 
to drive for. And it is those rules I was referring to. So given the distance  that Ms C had to 
travel and the very poor weather conditions, I think Acromas should have let Ms C know that 
its likely  that her journey  would have been  fragmented. It was a possibility that, had Ms Cs 
recovery been the first job of the day, the driver might have been able to take her all the way 
home. But that wasn't the case and certainly  wasn't guaranteed.  So I think Acromas should 
have advised  Ms C that her journey was unlikely to be completed  in one go.
Acromas said that if its advice that Ms C needed to travel to the airport  to pick up a hire car 
was the reason she declined that option, then her decision  wouldn't  have changed if 
Acromas had told her that the recovery truck journey  would be in stages. But I didn't  say that 
the distance to the airport was Ms Cs sole reason for not selecting  the hire car option. I said 
it might  have made the hire car a less attractive  option. And I think  that if Acromas had 
explained that a journey by recovery truck was likely to be in stages then the hire car option 
might have seemed  more  attractive than the recovery truck.  But in any event, Acromas got it 
wrong. It told Ms C that she would have to travel  to the airport  if she wanted a hire car. That 
wasn't the case. And it didn't advise Ms C that if she chose to accept the recovery truck 
option the journey was likely to be in stages. And, on balance, I think if Acromas had fully 
and accurately informed  Ms C shed have most likely decided that a hire car was her best 
bet. And that would  have allowed Acromas to pre-order  the hire car for the following day.
I accept that Ms Cs policy says that where a hire car isnt required immediately Acromas 
can't guarantee its availability. Similarly I agree that the weather  was awful and this might 
have added to the problems with providing it. But in response to my provisional decision  
Acromas has accepted that if it had pre-booked the car the previous evening its likely Ms C 
wouldn't have  experienced  the same delays. So regardless of what its policy  says,  it seems 
that not booking the car the night before did add to the delays. Acromas said it was Ms Cs 
decision not to accept a hire car so it had no reason  to pre-book it. But as I've explained 
above I think that M C only said she didn't want the car because  Acromas didn't fully explain 
the situation to her. If it had I think she would  have made a different decision about whether 
to order the car and the delays might  have been avoided.
Acromas added that the compensation I provisionally awarded  wasn't  warranted.  It thinks  
that its only contribution  to delay was the 83 minutes  between  the recovery truck driver 
suggesting it book  a hire car and it placing the order with its hire car provider. It said it made 
every effort to speed  things up. But as Ive already said I think  its probable that much  of 
the delay Ms C experienced on the Sunday could have been avoided  if Acromas had given 
Ms C full information on the Saturday. Also Ive seen Acromas job history  for Ms Cs 
recovery and that doesnt support Aromas statement that it made  every effort to expedite  
the process. In fact, unless there are other entries  I havent seen,  the job history shows  very 
little in the way of effort from Acromas  to find out what was going on with the hire car. Also 
when considering a compensation award,  amongst other things, I think about the impact on 
the consumer  of the business failing.  And in this case as well as the immense frustration 
Ms C experienced on the Sunday, Acromas failures  in service led to an avoidable  round  trip 
journey of some 300 miles. In those circumstances I think an additional £100 compensation 
is justified.
Finally Acromas noted that in an early email  exchange Ms C had referred  to a response to 
her complaint from the dealer  who sold her the car that broke down. It noted that Ms C had 
referred to the dealer offering three years servicing  and MOT  as well as covering expenses. 
Ms C provided me with an email exchange with the dealer,  which related to its part in the 
Ref: DRN83238936cars breakdown and its offer of compensation to put things right.  But the information  Ive 
seen doesnt include a reimbursement of the additional  fuel costs that Ms C incurred. So Im 
satisfied that its fair to instruct  Acromas to reimburse her for those and to add simple 
interest to that payment.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Reimburse Ms C £60.24  she paid for fuel to return the borrowed  car. Acromas should 
add simple  interest to that sum a at a rate of 8% a year from 19 March 2018 to the date 
it reimburses  her1.
Pay Ms C £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Ms C has accepted my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If Acromas considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms C a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8323893