K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Monzo  Bank  Ltd havent  refunded him transactions  taken from his 
account that he disputes.
Background
I issued a provision decision on this complaint and explained the background, and the 
findings I was planning on reaching.
In May 2018  Mr T got in touch with Monzo  to explain there  had been  transactions he didnt  
recognise between  20 and 28 April 2018. Mr T said some of these  transactions  had been 
refunded, but others totalling  around  £500 hadnt been.
Monzo looked into this and declined to refund these transactions. They  said they believed 
Mr T could  have taken more measures to report the suspicious activity earlier than he did. 
And because he continued  to use the card, even after he believed the card details had been 
compromised, they were  unable to treat them as fraudulent.
Mr T was unhappy with this and complained.  He explained he was working 14-hour days for 
three weeks, which explained the delay.
Monzo replied to the complaint, and as well as repeating their earlier concerns about the 
length of time itd taken, also felt Mr T had been  negligent. They said the terms and 
conditions say Mr T would  have needed to freeze  his card as soon as he noticed 
transactions that looked wrong. They also sent him in app notifications  about the 
transactions, he made a number of top ups where they say it would have been reasonable 
for him to see these  transactions. And said its a reasonable assumption to say he wouldnt 
have continued  to top up his account if he felt itd been compromised.
Unhappy with this Mr T asked us to look into matters.  Our investigator did so and asked Mr T 
some questions. Mr T didnt reply  initially, so our investigator went  ahead,  and on review of 
all the information  felt the case should be upheld. Our investigator also said the current  list of 
transactions in dispute were:
20 April 2018 - £105.31
20 April 2018 - £30.04
21 April 2018 - £252.05
21 April 2018  £7.61
21 April 2018 - £15
23 April 2018 - £46.33
Total amount  - £456.34
And he went on to explain  he hadnt  seen enough to show  Mr T had authorised the 
transactions. He also explained because the transactions looked like online ones, under the 
regulations that govern these kinds of transactions, gross negligence didnt apply.
Mr T replied immediately  and said he accepted  the view. But Monzo didnt. They said they 
maintained it was as a result of negligence, or possibly done by Mr T himself. They also said 
Mr T had been logging on around  the time of the transactions,  and hed received online 
notifications about  the transactions. But our investigator didnt agree, repeating his earlier  
arguments. So, the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN85245162Relevant considerations
It will help in deciding this complaint to set out the regulations that are relevant to this 
complaint. These are the Payment Services Regulations (the PSRs 2017).
These explain that a payment out of someones account  can only be authorised if the payer 
has consented to it. The payment service  provider must show  the payment was 
authenticated. But its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the 
personalised set of procedures necessary to authenticate a payment were used; that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that the payment transaction was authorised by the account 
holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will 
usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,  banks  will be 
liable for unauthorised payments. But account holders can become liable for unauthorised 
payments when they havent met certain obligations.  These  obligations are set out in 
Regulation 72 PSRs  2017.
Considering distance contracts
Under the Payment  Service Regulations  and the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, the consumer 
is usually not liable  for an unauthorised payment transaction, where the transaction 
involves a distance contract. A distance contract  is one made using distance 
communication without  the physical presence of the trader or consumer (e.g. buying  
something online or over the phone). There are some exceptions  to this based  on the 
nature of the distance contract involved.  These exceptions  are known as excepted  
contracts. If an unauthorised transaction involves an excepted contract  the consumer can 
become liable for it in certain circumstances.
The transactions, in this case, appear  to have been made online and therefore appear to 
be distance contracts.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr T authorise  the transactions
As has been said above, generally unless the payment transaction is authorised then the 
bank doesnt have authority to debit the customers account.
To decide whether Mr T did authorise  these transactions, I firstly need to be satisfied these 
were authenticated by Monzo.
Monzo have said the transactions  were  authenticated by the card details,  and Mr Ts 
postcode. Ive not seen any evidence of this, but it seems likely this was the case as thats 
usually the information required in an online transaction.
Ref: DRN85245163Next, I need to consider whether Mr T consented  to these  payments. Monzo  have argued he 
did, because they say he was logged into the app on several occasions before payments 
went out. He received  online notifications  of the transactions  and they say sometimes  the 
account was topped  up just before a payment went out.
Monzo dont appear  to have made  any attempt  to investigate these transactions. The 
transactions were  made to companies Mr T seemingly hadnt  used before (based on the 
information given  to us). These companies  were also based  overseas. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Monzo  have tried to contact  these companies to understand what  
happened, or who made the transactions as Id usually expect.
So, given the lack of information from Monzo, I need to look closely at what  Mr T has said to 
determine whether  hes consented to the payments  or not. Our investigator asked Mr T 
some questions to help him establish  the outcome  of the case. Mr T didnt  respond  to those 
but did reply after our investigator  upheld the case.  
When I first reviewed  the case,  I felt I needed the information from Mr T  so I asked him to 
answer the questions  our investigator had asked.  He told me:
Because this was such  a long time ago, he cant recall exactly when and how he 
topped up his account  but remembers he did top up his account that day
He didnt misplace his card or phone at any point that day
Doesnt think the person  who used the card for these transactions could have known 
the balance, unless there  were  shortcomings  on Monzos side
But he says he did report them as soon as he saw the money  coming out
And he confirmed the transactions  Ive listed about are the correct  ones hes 
disputing
Mr T previously said he didnt report the transactions straight away. In a chat environment 
with Monzo he said hed noticed  some  strange payments, and this is his first day off. This 
was 28 April 2018, so over a week after the first transaction hes now disputing.  
In this chat Mr T has also said he froze his card a few times as a result of the unusual  
transactions and unfroze it when he was using it. So, this shows Mr T was aware of the 
transactions, and didnt  report  them  immediately   which is different to what  hes told me 
more recently. 
I find it unusual that he didnt report the transactions  immediately.  I think its reasonable to 
say that someone  who discovered their account  was being used for fraudulent transactions 
would usually report them  immediately. I also think its unusual that Mr T froze and unfroze 
the card to make payments  suggesting the person  who made the disputed transactions 
knew when the card could and couldnt  be used.
Mr T has also told us he didnt  lose his card or phone. As Mr T has told us he never 
misplaced his card or phone, its currently unclear to me how someone could have known 
the account had been topped up or made these transactions  without  Mr Ts consent.
Ref: DRN85245164Monzo have also said they can see Mr T logging  in just before some payments were  made.  
And that on one occasion the account was topped up with £200  and then in the same  
minute that exact  amount  was paid out. This particular transaction  was disputed  by Mr T and 
ultimately paid back  into his account.  In addition, Ive seen that on 21 April 2018 Mr Ts 
account was topped  up by another £200. This was done at 3.47pm, and then six minutes 
later the first of the three disputed transactions Ive noted above on that day (21 April 2018) 
were made. I think its unlikely someone  would have tried to make these payments so close 
to the account  being  topped  up on two separate occasions  if they didnt know the account 
itself had been topped  up.
Mr T says he doesnt think anyone would have known his account had been topped up, 
unless there  were issues with Monzos  systems. But Ive not seen anything  to suggest thats 
the case  and given all the facts  of the case,  including the inconsistencies  in Mr Ts 
explanations, I currently think its more likely than not Mr T made  or otherwise authorised  the 
transactions he disputes.
Responses to my provisional decision
Monzo said they had nothing  further to add.
Mr T said:
Its absurd that after two years hes being told he authorised  the payments
He says he did top up his card, but he didnt make the payments
Some of the payments were made when Monzo  told him the card was frozen
He was told that the billing and shipping  addresses didnt match, so did Monzo make 
sure these  were genuine payments?
And these payments  were made to retailers abroad, so why would he be authorising  
payments to companies abroad?
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzos actions
As Ive noted in my provisional decision,  Monzo dont appear to have made  any attempt to 
investigate these transactions  with the retailers. But that doesnt mean I can hold Monzo 
responsible for the transactions, if Im satisfied  Mr T authorised them  himself.
Did Mr T authorise  the transactions
Ive considered what Mr Ts said here. Hes repeated he topped up his account but didnt 
make the payments. Mr T has also pointed to the shipping  and billing addresses not 
matching and said that some of the transactions took place when his card was frozen.  
In relation to the addresses not matching Monzo  arent required to check they do match. 
They might check  but even when the addresses dont match that doesnt  mean  its an 
unauthorised transaction. Online purchases  can be delivered anywhere. And the fact the 
shipping address is different to the billing  address isnt enough, when  taking account  of all 
the other circumstances,  to persuade  me the transactions  were unauthorised.
Ref: DRN85245165Mr T has said he was actively freezing and unfreezing  the card between  the genuine  use at 
the time  and that some transactions  went through when  the account  was frozen. The 
information I have  doesnt show the transactions going through when the account  was 
frozen. This also isnt something Mr T mentioned when he first disputed  these transactions  
and I think its likely  he would have as I would have expected that to be quite a significant  
concern for him. But Mr Ts freezing and unfreezing also means  having been  aware  of them  
he doesnt report them and continues to use the card. But then apparently  in an attempt to 
protect himself goes on to freeze and unfreeze the card as he needs to. Thatd mean that 
whoever carried out the transactions just happened to do so at a point when Mr T had 
unfrozen the card for some genuine usage. That seems quite unlikely.
And although the shipping  and billing addresses  may not match,  the evidence I have still 
demonstrates some of the disputed transactions were made almost immediately after Mr T 
topped up the account.
As Ive explained above, I think its very unlikely  on two separate  occasions Mr T could have 
topped up the balance,  and then an unknown third party, within  minutes, made these 
transactions. So, based on all the facts of the case I still think  its more likely  than not Mr T 
made or otherwise authorised these transactions.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8524516