K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about advice given by Beaufort Asset Management  Limited (Beaufort) to 
transfer his deferred benefits  in a former employers pension scheme to a personal  pension. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Cs complaint. She issued her view in August 2018. 
In it she set out the background  to the complaint. I dont repeat all that here.  But, in 
summary, Mr C had deferred benefits in a former employers pension scheme. In June  2013  
Beaufort contacted Mr C to say that an enhanced transfer value was being offered. Beaufort 
was receiving a fee from the scheme for giving advice.
Mr Cs deferred pension,  calculated at the date of leaving the scheme in 2003, was 
£3,371.88 pa which represented six years service.  At the time of the advice Mr C was 
married, in good health and a member of his employers pension  scheme (a group personal 
pension). He also had deferred  benefits  in another former employers  final salary pension  
scheme. His attitude to investment risk was medium and he had over 20 years  until he 
reached his normal  retirement age. 
The adjudicator referred  to the transfer  suitability report and the supporting  documentation.  
There was no fact find but the report  did set out the benefits Mr C would be giving up if he 
transferred, the critical yield and why Beaufort felt able to recommend  a transfer. 
The adjudicator said the critical yield wasnt unreasonable for a medium risk investor such as 
Mr C.  Although the death benefits  were lower  Beaufort had clearly  explained  that and Mr C 
hadnt queried it. The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. 
In response Mr C said:
Final salary pension  transfers are a specialist area  just because he works in the 
industry doesnt mean it should be implied that he fully understood the implications of 
transferring.
He was concerned about any suggestion that any shortfall wouldnt have a significant  
impact on his retirement plans. Beaufort hadnt  really assessed what  his retirement 
plans were so that statement, in support of the recommendation to transfer, made 
little sense. 
At the time of the transfer he had over 20 years  to his normal  retirement date. The 
decision to transfer  should  have been  left until much closer to his retirement  his 
plans werent clear  and could  change.  The advice was based on unreasonable and 
unquantifiable assumptions.  He was under pressure of losing the enhanced transfer 
value if he didnt transfer. 
Much of the discussion had centred on investment risk. But the more  relevant risk 
was forgoing a guaranteed, index-linked retirement income  for him and his wife as 
well as spouses benefits. 
Ref: DRN84467252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with what our adjudicator said and with the reasons that she gave as 
to why she didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ive considered what Mr C said in response to the adjudicators assessment. Final salary  
transfers are a specialist  area. But in assessing the recommendation to transfer I think  its 
fair to say that Mr C would have known more than other investors, in general terms at least.  
For example, I think hed have known (even  if he considers the risk was underplayed) that by 
transferring hed be giving up virtually guaranteed benefits and that what he got under the 
new arrangement  would be dependent on investment returns.  But in any event my decision 
doesnt turn on the fact that he had that sort of knowledge. 
I dont think, given that Mr C was some way off retirement and any plans could change, 
Beaufort should have advised  him to wait before making any decision to transfer. Mr C had 
been offered an enhanced transfer  value. Although I can understand why he felt that added 
pressure, Beauforts  report  was issued on 17 June 2013 and the deadline for response was 
11 August 2013,  almost  two months later.  So I think there was time for Mr C to think about 
things and query anything he didnt understand or wanted to discuss further.  And the fact 
that he wasnt close to retiring meant  that there  was a reasonable investment period for the 
transfer value  to grow  sufficiently to match or exceed the benefits  given  up in Mr Cs former 
employers scheme.  
In my view the transfer appeared financially viable.  The critical yield (4.64% based on the 
enhanced transfer value  and 4.99%  on a non enhanced value)  wasnt unreasonable  and (in 
either case) was below  the regulators lower assumed growth  rate of 5% pa (7% pa being 
the mid rate and 9% the higher rate). I dont think there was anything  in Mr Cs personal or 
financial circumstances which meant that a transfer wouldnt be suitable. Id agree with the 
adjudicator that the lower death  benefits on transfer were  dealt  with appropriately.  
I havent looked into whether Beaufort  is right in saying that Mr C hasnt lost out financially 
anyway. Its sometimes the case that an investor  will ultimately lose out as a result of 
transferring. But where the advice to transfer wasnt unsuitable then the business who gave 
the advice to transfer wont  be responsible even if a loss does result.
As Mr C has highlighted, transfers from final salary pension schemes are a specialist area 
requiring advice from a pension transfer  specialist  see COBS  19. That provision sets out 
the steps that a firm must take before making a recommendation, which include undertaking 
a comparison of the benefits likely (on reasonable  assumptions)  to be paid under the former 
employers scheme and the proposed  new arrangement. And, at the time the advice was 
given, COBS 19.1.6R said:
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer  or opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Ref: DRN84467253Ive borne that in mind.  But that doesnt  mean that any recommendation to transfer  will be 
unsuitable. It will depend on the circumstances of the particular  case. I know Mr C will be 
disappointed but I maintain that in his case the recommendation to transfer wasnt  
unsuitable. So, for the reasons given  by the adjudicator and what Ive said above, I dont 
think the complaint  should be upheld. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8446725