K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains British  Gas Insurance Limited took about a year to repair his central heating.  
He says there were  repeat visits; failed  call outs;  incorrect parts; misdiagnosis; and delays. 
He also says his policy premium increased due to all the visits.
background 
Mr F has a British  Gas insurance  policy protecting his boiler  and central heating. He had an 
issue with two radiators.  British Gas first visited him about this issue in December 2017, but 
the issue wasnt resolved  until November 2018.  In total, Mr F received nine visits during this 
eleven month period.
In August  2018,  Mr Fs policy renewed and his premium increased  from £358 to £449.  At this 
stage, he had received  five visits about his two radiators.  He complained the issue remained 
unresolved; about  his experience; and about the impact the visits had on his premium. His 
radiator issue was escalated, and after four more visits it was resolved. 
In September  2018, British Gas failed  to call Mr F when  promised,  so it offered him £30 to 
apologise. After  the radiator issue was resolved,  it responded to his complaint.  British Gas 
offered him a further £100  for the inconvenience caused by the multiple visits. However, it 
explained there were  various factors that determined the price of a policy and it said it 
couldnt see if the multiple visits had caused  the price to increase.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service.  It was considered by one of our investigators,  and 
she thought it should be upheld. She didnt think British Gas was responsible  for all the visits 
as it needed to test and eliminate issues to identify the root cause. However,  she said once 
the potential issue  had been identified,  it took a further four visits over four months to get it 
resolved. She concluded Mr F should  be compensated for the delays; his reduced heating; 
and the inconvenience he suffered. In addition to the £130  already offered, she 
recommended a further £70.
Our investigator went on to clarify that British Gas had told us, the reason Mr Fs premium  
had increased  was because he had received a discount the previous year;  and it doesnt  
increase the price based on the number of call outs. British Gas explained  the renewal 
premium only factors  in the visits where there  were successful repairs.
British Gas accepted our investigators recommendation. However, whilst Mr F accepted her 
findings, he thought the compensation award should be higher. Because Mr F disagreed,  his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN84368922Our investigator thought Mr F had received 13 visits before the issue was resolved. But 
having carefully reviewed  British Gas job history and file, Ive seen it attended on nine 
occasions, rather than 13. Nonetheless, I dont doubt that nine visits would have been 
inconvenient and frustrating.
British Gas first attended in December 2017. It attended again in January 2018;  and a further 
three visits took place  between June and July 2018. The job notes show  that during these 
five visits British Gas tried to resolve  the issue  by a combination of repairing  and replacing  
the radiator valves,  and flushing  the system. The notes also show  a potential solution  was 
identified during the fifth visit  which involved tracing the blockage between  two radiators 
and cutting it out. However, this solution wasnt investigated further; and British Gas 
acknowledges it should have been,  after the flushes were unsuccessful.
I can appreciate Mr Fs frustration. He says British Gas attempted to charge him nearly £800 
for a system flush that was free of charge,  and different engineers visited  on each occasion 
and recommended the same actions that had already failed. But overall,  I havent  seen  or 
been told anything  that leads me to conclude British  Gas attempts  to identify and fix the 
issue during the first five visits were unreasonable. I accept what British Gas says about 
having to test and eliminate issues   and I note the flush was attempted  a second time 
during the first five visits, because the radiator valves had since  been changed.
However, as acknowledged  by British  Gas, it didnt do everything it ought to have done after 
the fifth visit  and it took four more visits, over four months, before the blockage  was traced 
and removed. Also, based on the job sheet,  only two of those four visits related to tracing 
and removing the blockage. So, on balance, I consider  it likely  two of the four visits could 
have been avoided. Ive also seen that British Gas cancelled appointments on two 
occasions, in January  and September 2018.
So, in conclusion, Im persuaded there  were  avoidable delays of about four months, between 
when the potential solution  was identified and when the repair  was completed; and two visits 
could have been avoided. I acknowledge that, during this delay,  Mr F would have likely had 
limited heating in the rooms with the two affected radiators. I also accept there were some  
service issues  in respect of communication  and cancelled visits. But overall,  in my view,  
£200 fairly acknowledges the trouble and upset Mr F can reasonably be said to have 
suffered as result of these issues.
I note Mr F told our investigator that he now has issues with leaks as the last repair  was 
done badly. However,  he needs  to raise this issue with British Gas first, before we can 
consider the matter. At the time of providing its file, British  Gas understood Mr F was 
satisfied with the repairs.
Ill turn now to the premium increase at renewal. British Gas has been  inconsistent here. On 
the one hand it told Mr F it was unable to see if multiple visits had caused his premium to 
increase; but on the other hand it told us it only factored  in successful repairs.  
However, Mr Fs policy renewed in August 2018  and at that stage,  he had only received five 
visits in relation to his radiator issue. As Ive explained above, Im not persuaded British Gas 
did anything wrong  in relation to the first five visits  so, even if the five visits were factored 
in to his renewal premium, I wouldnt be persuaded British Gas had treated  him unfairly.
Ref: DRN84368923my final decision
I appreciate Mr F will remain  disappointed.  But for the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision is British  Gas Insurance Limited  should compensate  Mr F £200, in total. 
So, this means if £130  has already been  paid, a further £70 is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8436892