K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2000. Ms N says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Ms N took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms N says that she wasnt told about  the PPI policy   but I think  that FICL made it clear 
that the PPI was optional, and that Ms N chose to take it out, although I can understand 
why she doesnt  remember  this as it was so long ago. I say this because FICL has 
provided a copy of Ms Ns store card application  and I can see that the policy  is 
presented as optional, and Ms N has signed to select it. This is separate  to her signature 
for the store card itself. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms N so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms N got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms N about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms N has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
Ref: DRN87491952ombudsman
Ref: DRN8749195