K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Zurich Insurance  Plc has declined his property insurance claim for water 
damage on the grounds that he submitted fraudulent documents  during the claims process. 
 
background
Mr E is a leaseholder  of a local authority property. The property is insured by the local 
authority under a commercial policy with Zurich.  Mr E is a beneficiary  of the policy.  Mr E 
completed a claim form which was forwarded  by the local authority to Zurich in May 2018. In 
the claim form Mr E said thered been  a water leak from the flat above his that had caused 
damage to his kitchen,  bathroom, electrics, flooring and cupboards and damp to the walls, 
doors and door frames.  At the same time Mr E submitted a quotation for the repairs required. 
One was from a company, Z, stating  that the property  required a full strip out/extensive  
drying, a full rewire, a new fitted bathroom  and kitchen, new flooring and painting and 
decorating throughout. The quote  totalled  £46,896.48 including VAT. 
Mr E moved out of the flat into alternative  accommodation. 
Zurich appointed loss adjusters to validate  the claim. They  reported that there was evidence  
of mould in the flat and that it was poorly maintained. Mr E provided a further quotation from 
another company for £54,500 for labour  and materials. The loss adjuster raised concerns 
about the extent  of the damage, the proposed  repairs and that the property may not have 
been occupied  at the time of the loss. 
Zurich instructed a claims investigator to further review the claim. During the meeting 
between the claims investigator  and Mr E he agreed to provide evidence  of payments hed 
been making for alternative accommodation along  with evidence the damaged flat had had 
tenants at the time of the loss (with himself as live-in landlord). 
After the meeting, Mr E provided differing  accounts  of the tenants and provided tenancy 
agreements that appeared to have been  created recently and werent originals.
In July 2018 Mr E sent Zurich an email asking  it to pay him for the attached  invoice for 
£4,272.48 including VAT from Z for completed dehumidifying and stripping out works. Zurich 
appointed its own drying company to inspect  the drying works that Mr E said had been  
carried out. Mr E then emailed Zurich  to say that the dehumidifying had already been  carried  
out by Z and that Zurichs  drying company hadnt  been in touch with him. Mr E left a voice  
message for Zurich  saying he was out of pocket as a result of paying Z and further emails 
from him followed  stating he required full payment for the work which he said had been 
carried out as a result of Zurich instructing him to do so. 
Zurich spoke to the landlord of the alternative accommodation Mr E had said he was renting 
who confirmed, contrary to what Mr E had said, hed not been paid a deposit and that all 
monthly payments  were made  by Mr E in cash. Zurich was unable to contact the contractor 
responsible for the second quote. It contacted a director of Z who confirmed that the only 
invoice or quote  hed ever sent Mr E was the original one for £46,896 and that Z hadnt  been 
instructed to undertake any works at the property  at any stage.  
Zurichs drying  company inspected the property and confirmed there  was no evidence  any 
drying had been  completed.  It also said there was no evidence a full rewire was required. 
Ref: DRN86910532Zurich had concerns  about the claim so the claims investigator wrote to him to Mr E to 
challenge him about them. Mr E confirmed hed not actually seen any works  being 
completed but had given  Z a key to access the property to get on with them.  Zurich  asked 
Mr E for evidence that hed paid Z for the dehumidifying/strip  out works  hed sent it the 
invoice for. Mr E said that only the dehumidifying had gone  ahead so hed actually only paid 
Z £1,000.  He told Zurich  that the invoice hed sent it was actually a quotation and there was 
no inference on his part that hed presented the invoice for payment in full. 
Zurich asked Mr E for some evidence that hed paid Z £1,000. He said that because Z hadnt 
been able to carry out any drying  out, it had returned  the money to him.
Zurich declined Mr Es claim in full in early January 2019 on the grounds that hed submitted  
false documents constituting a fraudulent device by which  he was attempting to gain a 
benefit under the policy for something to which he wasnt entitled. 
Mr E complained to Zurich about  its decision but it didnt change its mind.  
Unhappy with Zurichs decision, Mr E complained to this service.  He said to our investigator  
that Zurich had told him hed fabricated the second invoice for £4,272 and used it as a 
reason not to pay his claim.  He said the invoice was genuine and covered a proportion  of the 
work listed in Zs original  quote for £46,896.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
didnt think that Zurich had unfairly declined Mr Es claim. Mr E disagreed with our 
investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
Its firstly worth  commenting  that Ive noted Mr Es request to speak to me before I issue my 
decision because he wishes to fully set out his complaint. I would like to reassure Mr E that, 
having reviewed  all the evidence and listened  to the phone calls between  him and our 
investigator, Im satisfied  that hes been  able to clearly and coherently articulate what his 
complaint is about.  Im unable to unilaterally speak to only one of the parties to a complaint 
because to do so wouldnt be fair on the other.  I have to treat both parties fairly and 
reasonably and taking oral evidence from just one party, without the other  being  present, 
wouldnt mean Id discharged my duties impartially. 
I have to decide whether the action  taken by Zurich to decline Mr Es claim in full, on the 
grounds he presented  it with false documents in order  to gain a financial advantage to which  
he wasnt entitled under  the policy, was fair. I think it was. 
Mr E has said Zurich  thinks  the invoice for £4,272.48 for the stripping out/drying  is fabricated 
when, in fact, the amounts listed for the items on it were exactly  the same as appeared on 
Zs original quote for £46,896.48. So Mr E says the invoice hasnt been fabricated. I accept  
what he says in this respect. I can see the items  listed  on the second, smaller, invoice 
appeared on the larger original invoice. But the point  Zurich has made  is that (even though  
the items  are for the same amounts) Mr E attempted to claim for works never undertaken for 
Ref: DRN86910533which hed never  paid. In other words, the second  invoice may well be comprised of 
amounts and items mentioned on the first, but it is false in the sense that the amount  being 
claimed was for works never completed.
I can see Mr E sent Zurich an invoice for £4,272.48 demanding payment for works that had 
never been completed (as confirmed by Zurichs  drying contractor  that attended to inspect 
the alleged completed works). And I can see the 3 or 4 emails Mr E sent to Zurich asking it 
to pay the invoice for the work or that he later told the claims investigator,  when challenged, 
that he hadnt himself  seen nor for which  could  he provide any proof  of payment. Mr E then 
said to Zurich that hed actually only paid a £1,000 to Z in cash,  which it subsequently 
returned to him. Mr E has also told our investigator  that he didnt know the works hadnt  
been carried out because hed been out of the country at the time. 
Mr E provided us with evidence of the date of his trip and I can see that whilst he sent Zurich 
the first email, attaching the invoice, along  with a second chasing  payment, two days  before 
he returned from his trip, he also sent emails asking Zurich for full payment after his return  
from holiday. So Im satisfied that some of the emails he sent Zurich  were sent after he 
returned. Its unclear  to me why, upon  his return,  Mr E didnt confirm  that the works were  
completed before making further payment  demands to Zurich.  
 
But it is Mr Es responsibility, as a beneficiary  and claimant under the policy, to make sure 
works hes claiming for have been carried out and that any invoice he submits is genuine in 
the sense that hes paid it and now seeks reimbursement. I cant  reasonably conclude that 
Mr E discharged this responsibility here. He submitted an invoice for works that werent  
completed. He also claimed over £4,000 from Zurich for something he wasnt  actually out of 
pocket for despite telling Zurich on a number of occasions that he was.
 
If Mr E was indeed unsure  that the works  had been  completed then not only should he have  
checked himself, but he had a duty, upon discovering they werent, to withdraw his payment 
demand from Zurich. 
So I dont  think,  taking these circumstances into account, that Zurich  has reached an 
unreasonable decision in respect  of his claim. I think that Zurich has been able to show how 
it decided that Mr E had tried to gain a financial advantage for something which he wasnt  
entitled to by submitting false documents that constituted  a fraudulent  device. I can see that 
this is the reason Zurich declined Mr Es claim in full and I dont think it did so unfairly.  I know  
that Zurich also had reservations and concerns  about the alterative accommodation Mr E 
said he was paying  for along with the tenants  he said were in his property at the time of the 
leak. But I can also see that Zurich,  despite setting these concerns out to Mr E, hasnt relied  
on them  to decline the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8691053