K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mr J in 2008. Mr Js 
lending history is as follows:
Loan one taken in January 2008 for £100. This was repaid in February 2008.
Loan two taken in March 2008  for £300. This was repaid in April 2008.
Loan three taken  in December 2008  for £175. As I understand it an outstanding  
balance remains on this loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint  as they didnt think  Mr J had been treated 
unfairly. Mr J disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Quick Quid says it agreed to Mr Js application  after he provided  details  of his monthly, 
which suggested that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing  
to as and when they fell due. And in these circumstances  it wasnt irresponsible  to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that the information provided does suggest that Mr J was 
asked to provide  details  of his income.  I accept that Mr Js actual circumstances werent  
reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Quick Quid  obtained.  
And Mr Js actual financial position  might well have been apparent if further  information   
such as bank statements   had been  obtained. 
Ref: DRN80160692But Quick  Quid could  only make  its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr J and there  was a 
significant break between loan two being repaid and loan three  being  taken, I dont think  it 
had reached the stage  where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for   
Mr J. In these  circumstances,  I dont think Quick Quid needed to take further steps  to verify 
the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where  I can safely say that a lender has done  
something wrong. And, in this case, I think that Quick Quid carried  out reasonable checks 
even though its look like the information it mightve been provided wasnt reflective of Mr Js 
actual financial position. 
Quick Quid relied on the information it was provided  with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Js declared income and Mr J only taking three loans,  
I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr J. But I hope that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8016069