K821x#15An adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He explained  that loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have 
been given to Mr L as his pattern of borrowing suggested  that he had become reliant  on 
short-term loans. PDL disagreed and explained it carried  out adequate checks and 
Mr Ls borrowing history wasnt a concern. As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case  
was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably  repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. 
Ref: DRN87485512Our adjudicator didnt  think PDL needed  to more when it approved loans  1 to 4. Mr L didnt  
disagree with the adjudicators opinion about  these loans so I won be making further  findings  
on them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of PDLs lending  history  with Mr L, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which PDL should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point  was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point PDL ought to have realised  Mr L was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. There is a large gap between loans  1 and 2 so I have considered the 
lending chain from loan 2 onwards. And looking at this Mr L had taken out 4 loans 
within 8 months. And Mr L was indebted  to PDL for 6 of those months. The number 
of loans Mr L had taken within the time period means PDL ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr L was becoming reliant on short term lending to cover 
on-going shortfalls  in his finances.  
Mr Ls first loan in this chain of lending was for £500 and although the amount he 
borrowed varied in between, for loan 6 he was borrowing £400  so for a similar  
amount. Mr L had also settled loans  and taken out further  borrowing  within  days 
between loans 3 and 4 and loans  4 and 5.  PDL  says the fact he had no outstanding 
debts meant he wasnt reliant  on short term lending. But I think the very small breaks  
in between loans  show that by loan 5 PDL ought to have  seen that Mr L was not 
likely borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall in his income. Instead  its more likely 
the borrowing  was to meet an ongoing  need  and there  was no indication  his reliance 
on short  term credit  was coming  to an end.
PDL says it obtained income verification  from Mr L and he could afford  the loans. 
Whilst PDL may have obtained this information from Mr L and he had sufficient 
disposable income, the lending pattern shows  that Mr L was falling into a pattern of 
dependency on this form of credit. 
I think that Mr L lost out because PDL continued to provide  borrowing  from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended  for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
the number  of loans  and the length  of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and PDL should put things right.
putting things right   what PDL needs to do
Ref: DRN87485513PDL shouldnt have  given Mr L loans 5 and 6.
A.) PDL should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr L towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans,  including payments made to a third party  
where applicable, but not including anything it has already  refunded.
B.) PDL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr L which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the 
date Mr L originally  made  the payments, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
C.) PDL should pay Mr L the total of A plus B.
D.) The overall pattern  of Mr L borrowing for loan 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so PDL should remove these loans  entirely from Mr 
Ls credit file. If PDL has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser  to do 
the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to deduct tax from this interest. PDL should give Mr L a 
certificate showing  how much tax PDL has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8748551