K822xComplaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  (MyJar) lent money to him that he couldn't afford to 
repay.
Background 
Based on the information, MyJar provided Mr S with eight loans between January 2015  and 
September 2017.
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 8 Jan 2015 10 Feb 2015 £100
2 27 Feb 2015 11 Mar 2015 £225
3 26 Apr 2015 28 Jul 2015 £200
4 9 Aug 2015 17 Nov 2015 £750
5 9 Dec 2015 17 Mar 2016 £800
6 4 Jul 2016 17 Jul 2016 £500
7 28 Jul 2016 7 Jul 2017 £1,000
8 3 Sep 2017 7 Sep 2018 £1,100
Mr S says that sufficient  affordability checks weren't carried out before the loans were  
provided. He says that the initial loan was increased  in subsequent months and extended  
without further  assessment of his income and outgoings.
MyJar says that Mr S completed on-line applications which  requested personal, income and 
expenditure information and it also carried out further checks  with external bodies including  
credit checks. It says it doesn't provide rollovers and that a new loan wouldn't  be provided 
until existing loans were  repaid.  It says that its checks  were  proportionate and adequate and 
that based on these it was reasonable  to provide the loans.
Our adjudicator didn't think  she had seen  enough  evidence to say that loans one to three 
shouldn't have been provided. But she thought that by loan four Mr S' overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested he had become  persistently reliant on short-term loans. She said Mr S 
continued to borrow  over a prolonged period suggesting he was having problems managing 
his money, and that he may not have been  using  short-  term loans  as they were intended. 
Based on this she upheld this complaint  from loan four onwards.
MyJar didn't agree with our adjudicator's  view. It said it was not clear how the adjudicator 
had come to the conclusion that Mr S' borrowing was unsustainable. It also noted that there  
was a four month gap between loans  five and six.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
information was gathered  before  the first three loans were  provided and can see that 
Mr S' income was recorded  as £1,100  for the first two loans and £1,000 for the third.  
Information about his expenses was also gathered. Given  the size of the repayments  
compared to Mr S' income - and given the information suggested the loans were  
affordable  I didnt  think there  was enough evidence  to say that the first three  loans 
shouldn't have been provided;
Ref: DRN89377832loan four was for a much larger amount  than the previous loans and was for a period 
of six months. I thought  that further checks should have been carried  out to ensure 
that Mr S wasn't becoming persistently reliant  on short  term loans. However, having 
looked through the information  provided, I didnt find I had enough to say that this 
loan shouldn't have been provided;
by loan five, Mr S had taken out five loans  in a year and there were no significant 
gaps between the loans. The amount he was borrowing  was increasing and I thought 
that a full review  of Mr S' financial situation  should have taken place  at this time. Had 
this happened  MyJar would have realised Mr S' monthly income was less than he 
declared and the repayments due were a substantial part of this. The expenditure 
information MyJar gathered combined with Mr S income  suggested this loan wasn't 
sustainably affordable;
the gap between when loan five was repaid and loan six provided  wasnt  long 
enough to suggest  that the circumstances leading to Mr S' previous loans had 
changed. Therefore  I considered the loans as all part of the same  lending chain;
by the time loan six was provided, Mr S' pattern of borrowing suggested he had 
become persistently reliant on short term loans. Loan six was for a lower amount 
than the previous two loans, but Mr S then went on to borrow  much  larger  amounts. I 
thought his overall pattern of borrowing by this time suggested he was persistently 
reliant on the loans  and that these werent sustainably affordable.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision and no further  information  was provided.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner - 
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. These checks  could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MyJar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. There may even come a 
point where the lending  history and pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrates  that the 
lending was unsustainable.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision,  my decision hasnt  changed. I do not find 
that there  is enough  evidence to say that loans one to four shouldnt have been provided.  
However I think that adequate checks would have shown MyJar that loans five onwards 
werent sustainably  affordable.  Therefore  I uphold  this complaint in regard to loans five to 
eight.
Ref: DRN89377833My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five to eight. MYJAR 
Limited should (as it has agreed):
refund  all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loans from five to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  about loan five from Mr S' credit  file. The 
number of loans  taken from loan six means  any information recorded  about them  is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans six to eight should be removed from Mr S' credit 
file.
*HMRC requires  MYJAR Limited  to take tax from this interest. If Mr S asks for a certificate  
showing how much  tax has been taken off, MYJAR  Limited should provide  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8937783