K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that following an accident, Haven Insurance  Company Limited (Haven)  took 
too long to complete the repairs  on his taxi after he claimed on his taxi insurance policy. 
Mr R says hes suffered financial loss as a result.  
Reference to Haven includes its agents.
background
Mr R is a self-employed taxi driver and he has taxi insurance with Haven. Mr R had a minor 
accident in mid-December  2018.  So, he made  a claim  to Haven under his policy. His taxi 
could still be driven  in the meantime. Mr R arranged  in advance to book his taxi in for repair 
in February 2019.  
Ahead of the repairs being  completed, Mr R sent photographs  of the damage to help speed 
up the repair process once underway.  Mr R says he asked Haven not to collect his taxi until 
it had ordered  all of the necessary parts. 
Haven inspected Mr Rs taxi in early February  and authorised repairs to be completed. 
Mr Rs taxi was picked  up for repair around  25 February and he says it was agreed with him 
that it would  be returned around  5 March. Following  further inspection at the garage, Haven 
decided that it needed to order a new bumper and would fit it whilst  doing other  minor  work. 
Haven ordered  the bumper on 28 February.  
Mr R chased progress  on the repairs around 5 March.  At that point he found out that there  
would be a delay  in the garage receiving the bumper from its supplier.  After making more 
phone calls to Haven,  Mr R complained about  the delay in completing  the repairs  to his taxi. 
Haven then suggested that it would  repair Mr Rs old bumper to speed things up. Mr R 
agreed to that. Haven  returned Mr Rs taxi to him on 13 March with the repairs completed.
Mr R complained to Haven about its delays and it responded later in March.  It said the delay 
in repairing Mr Rs taxi was caused by the bumper not being in stock,  so it refurbished  the 
old one. Haven said that Mr R was satisfied with the quality of repairs.  
Mr R wasnt happy with Havens response, so he contacted our service. Our investigator  
looked into the complaint and found that once Haven was aware  of the delay in receiving the 
new bumper, it tried to get Mr Rs taxi back on the road as soon as possible. But the 
investigator felt that there had been some miscommunication about the type of repair  
needed so she recommended  that Haven pay compensation  of £150 to Mr R. Although 
Haven was happy with the investigators recommendation, Mr R wasnt. He didnt think  £150 
fairly compensated him for his loss of income.  So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my provisional decision  
I sent Mr R and Haven  my provisional decision on 2 June 2020. Ive included the relevant 
extracts below.
Mr R asked Haven not to collect his taxi unless  it had all of the parts  needed to repair it. 
And given  that his taxi is his source of livelihood, I appreciate why that was important to him. 
So, its not surprising  that hes now concerned about the delay  in completing the repairs  and 
Ref: DRN87067672getting his taxi back to him, especially as that process was delayed  because Haven needed 
to order a part.
In the event of damage being caused, Mr Rs policy  terms allow Haven to repair the damage,  
settle the claim by making a monetary payment or provide a replacement  taxi. 
Haven decided that it would repair the damage  to Mr Rs taxi. But I dont think it was 
particularly clear to Mr R what was going  to happen.  Mr R seemed to think that Haven was 
always going to fit a new bumper, when Haven  appeared minded, initially at least,  to repair  
the old one. Haven could have been clearer about its intentions.  In any event, Mr R agreed 
with Haven for the repair work to be completed at a future date. 
Haven completed  an initial  assessment, so would have had some  idea about the work  
needed. But once it completed a full inspection after it collected the taxi, it decided  to order  a 
new bumper. I dont  think its unusual  for the scope of repair work to change  once a full 
inspection takes  place and Im satisfied from Havens  notes  that it didnt delay in ordering the 
bumper. 
But that said, I dont  think Haven did enough  at this important stage. Given  what Mr R had 
said about not collecting his taxi until Haven  had the parts it needed, Haven should have 
checked the expected  delivery date of the new bumper when it was ordering it. But it doesnt 
appear to have done that. Instead,  Havens records suggest that it only found out about the 
delay when Mr R chased progress on the repairs. And that happened around the time that 
Mr R expected the repairs to be completed. So, I can appreciate  his concern when he found  
out about the delay.
Had Haven followed this up sooner, it could have  managed Mr Rs expectations and put 
other options to him. And, whilst  its possible that Mr R might have asked for his taxi to be 
returned to him given  that it could still be driven,  I think hes more likely to have agreed  to the 
old bumper being  repaired  sooner.  I say that because Mr R planned in advance  to have the 
repair work completed, so I think its likely he would have  wanted  it finished at that point, 
rather than having  to arrange  for it to be done  at some point in the future. 
Mr R says that hes lost out financially as a result of Havens delays. So, Ive thought  about 
this. 
Mr R expected to be without his taxi until at least 5 March. But that date wasnt fixed,  and I 
dont think its unreasonable to assume that there  would have been some  slippage to the 
completion date. So, allowing  for that, I think its likely Mr R would have got his taxi back 
around 7 March. But he didnt get it back until 13 March  - so thats  a delay of six days. 
I dont think it was fair for Haven not to compensate Mr R for the loss of income to his 
business when  the period that he was without his taxi went far beyond what was expected or 
reasonable. And particularly as that was through no fault of his own and hed done as much  
as he could to minimise  delays. So, I think Haven now needs to compensate Mr R on the 
following basis: 
Mr Rs sent me evidence to show the amount of income his taxi business  usually makes 
before deductions  and expenses. From  that Ive calculated the average  weekly income in a 
six-week period either side of when Mr Rs taxi was being repaired (excluding weeks  that 
were not representative  of Mr Rs typical working pattern) as £1,249.74. So, the amount of 
loss that Mr Rs business suffered during the delay of six days  was [(1,249.747) x 6] 
£1,071.20. But that income would have been reduced by his fuel costs for the period 
Ref: DRN87067673concerned. Mr Rs evidence is that he typically spends between £170 and £220  each week  
in petrol.  As we dont how much he would have  spent  during the period in question,  I think 
its fair to deduct the amount at the mid-point-which is £195.00. So, for six days the 
deduction would be £167.14.
So, the overall loss to Mr Rs business  is (1,071.20  167.14) £904.06. And thats  the 
amount that I think Haven  should  reimburse Mr Rs business by to put him back  in the 
position he would have been in had it not been for its delays. Im not intending  to make any 
additional award for inconvenience on top of that, as I think Haven paying the loss of income 
to Mr Rs business fairly reflects his loss. And as this is income for his business  Mr R might  
be required  to declare it as such to HMRC when submitting his business  accounts.
And as Mr Rs been without the use of that income for some time,  Im intending to direct 
Haven to award simple  interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date that Mr R got his taxi 
back - 13 March 2019 - to the date of final settlement. I say that because  thats  the date by 
which Mr R could reasonably have expected to have earned  the amount that Ive suggested  
he lost due to Havens delays. So, I think its from that date that Haven should award 
interest.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr R didnt have any comments to make  and Haven accepted my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R had no comments  to make and Haven  accepted my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I reached  in my provisional decision. So, my final decision 
is set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Rs complaint. And I direct 
Haven Insurance  Company Limited to:
Pay Mr R £904.06 in respect of the financial loss his business suffered due to 
Havens unreasonable delays in completing his taxi repairs.  
Add simple interest1 at a rate of 8% a year on the above amount from 13 March 2019 
to the date of final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
1If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8706767