K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that QIC Europe  Ltd declined  a claim under their home insurance 
policy for accidental  damage  to a septic tank.  Mr and Mrs B are represented by U, a 
specialist drainage company.
background
The drainage system  at Mr and Mrs Bs property consists  of a septic tank and a drain  field 
(soakaway).
Mr and Mrs B took out their policy with QIC in August  2017.  They  said they noticed in 
December 2017  that their septic  tank wasnt working  properly. In June 2018 after having a 
contractor to empty the tank,  they made a claim to QIC for accidental damage.  They thought 
the tank had been  damaged when it had previously been emptied in 2015.
QIC sent its representative to inspect the tank. It said the tank wasnt  working  properly 
because the baffle1 had become loose. That was allowing unseparated effluent  material  to 
enter the soakaway  system and clog it up. It thought the damage  could  either been caused  
by the tank not being de-sludged annually or by the tanker engineer when the tank had last 
been emptied.  It said if the damage had been caused because  Mr and Mrs B hadnt had the 
tank de-sludged annually  as recommended by the manufacturer,  it wouldnt be liable as their 
policy didnt cover damage caused by a lack of proper  maintenance.
It also said that if the damage  had been caused when the tank had last been emptied, that 
would have been before  the policy had been  taken out, so they wouldnt be covered for that 
either.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator  didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think the damage to the tank had most  likely been caused by the tanker engineer.  As 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree, the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  to prove  their claim in the first instance by showing that damage to their 
septic tank was caused  by something  covered by their policy.  They  have accidental  damage 
cover for buildings. Accidental damage  is defined in the policy  as sudden,  unexpected  and 
physical damage  which: i) happens  at a specific time, and ii) was not deliberate, and iii) was 
caused by something  external and identifiable.  The policy doesnt cover any loss or damage  
that happened before the policy was taken out or repairs which are necessary because of a 
lack of proper  maintenance.  
Both parties  seem to accept that there  was a problem with the baffle and that it had 
collapsed. But they go on to suggest  different reasons  for the damage.
U said the baffle  was made of glass reinforced  plastic and the neck of the baffle had been 
damaged. It has explained that according to the manufacturer  when this type of tank is 
1 The purpose  of the baffle is to act as a filter,  ensuring  that only water can escape into the soakaway and leaving 
the solid material in the tank.
Ref: DRN82987442emptied, the tank emptying hose is inserted through the neck  of the baffle and can knock  it. 
Also because the hose  operates under significant pressure it can knock the baffle sideways 
causing it to collapse. Lastly when the emptying hose is removed from the tank,  it can knock 
the baffle out of alignment which might also cause  it to collapse.
I accept that any of these  things can happen.  The problem in this case,  however,  is that this 
damage to the baffle  would have happened  in July 2015 when the tank was last emptied.  
U has explained that once a baffle  becomes  damaged, it no longer acts as a filter. That 
means solid waste is able to leave the septic tank and enter  the property owners soakaway 
system. Once that happens, the solid waste will choke and exhaust the pipes as well as the 
surrounding soil, thus preventing waste water from being able to pass  through.  
Mr and Mrs B noticed some problems in December 2017 but they said then the problem 
seemed to resolve itself. The extent of the damage  only became apparent  when a contractor 
came to empty the tank in May 2018  as part of a routine scheduled service. U says that 
typically it could take months for the problem  to be noticeable but it would depend on use of 
the system and could  be longer in some circumstances. Although  I appreciate the system 
wouldnt stop working straightaway, I think its more likely than not that with a family of five 
the damage would  have  taken less than two years  nine months to become apparent.  So Im 
not persuaded that the damage was probably caused when the tank was last emptied.
QIC said that the manufacturer of Mr and Mrs Bs type of septic tank advises that the tank 
should be emptied  at least  every 12 months  by a licensed contractor. Ive checked  the 
manufacturers website  and can see thats the case. But Mr and Mrs B had a maintenance 
contract for the tank to be emptied every  three  years. 
It seems  the consequence  of not having  the tank emptied yearly  is that therell be a build-up 
of sludge in the tank and that can cause damage. QIC and U disagree as to whether that 
could have damaged the baffle as opposed to the tank generally and the soakaway. QIC 
says according to the manufacturer it could damage  the baffle. U says it was told the 
opposite. I dont think there was enough evidence either way to say that the baffle  was 
damaged by a build-up of sludge.
For Mr and Mrs Bs claim to be covered, they need to show that the baffle  was damaged  
(amongst other things) suddenly, unexpectedly and by something external and identifiable. If 
they cant do this, their claim will fail at the first hurdle. Its only if they have done so, that QIC 
needs to show  that an exclusion such as lack of maintenance applies. Since Im not 
persuaded that they have  proved their claim,  it doesnt matter  that Im not sure whether lack 
of maintenance  was a factor in the damage. 
In conclusion I think QIC treated Mr and Mrs B fairly  in declining their claim. Thats because 
it hasnt been  shown that the damage  is covered  by their policy.
Ref: DRN82987443my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8298744