K820x#14complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold a training course,  financed with a fixed  sum loan provided  by 
Caledonian Consumer  Finance Ltd (Caledonian).
background
In October  2017, Mr L signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian to finance a 
training course  with a course provider, who Ill refer to as T. He borrowed £4,875  which 
was repayable over 39 months. 
Mr L complained to Caledonian that the salesperson who came to his home  mislead him to 
believe the practical part of the course would be at a venue close  to his home  and he would 
need to complete an onsite assessment for a week, but these statements were untrue. Mr L 
says he would not have signed  up for the course if the salesperson  had given him the 
correct information.
Caledonian disagreed the course had been mis-sold  to Mr L. It considered  Mr Ls request to 
cancel the loan and refund his payments under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). It said that based on all the information  provided to Mr L when he signed up for 
the course, he should have been  aware of the course details. 
Mr L was unhappy  with this, he brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint. She said she could not verify what  the salesperson 
had told Mr L during the sale.  But said the supporting paperwork given to Mr L, clearly  set 
out what was expected  from the course.  She didnt think the course  had been 
misrepresented to Mr L.
Mr L disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
Mr L has nearly completed the course but had to put it on hold due to his wifes health 
problems. He wants to complete  his qualification  with another  course provider at a venue 
closer to home. He wants Caledonian to cancel his agreement, reimburse his travel 
expenses and refund  £1,400, so he can complete the course with a local course provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think  is the 
right outcome.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to bring a claim against 
the finance provider, if theres  either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services. In order to uphold Mr Ls complaint against Caledonian I need 
to be satisfied that theres either  been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by T, and 
that Caledonians response to his claim for a refund wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of a claim under Section 75, as only a court can do that.
Ref: DRN81435632A breach of contract  is when a party to a contract  fails to do something they are obliged  to 
do. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr T has not been provided with the course he signed  
up for. So, I dont think there  has been a breach of contract by T. 
Mr L says the salesperson told him the practical part of his course would take place at a 
local venue, when  in fact he had to travel to a venue, 55 miles away. In addition, Mr L says 
he was told he would  need to complete a one-week NVQ onsite assessment, but it turns out 
he needs to be onsite for three weeks. 
To make a finding  of misrepresentation I would need  to be satisfied  that Mr L was told a 
false statement of fact that caused  him to enter a contract he would not have otherwise 
entered into.
Mr L has been detailed  about what was discussed  during the sale.  In addition,  he has 
provided at statement from his wife, which confirms what the salesperson  said during the 
meeting. Whilst the salesperson has provided a conflicting account and denies Mr Ls wife 
was present, Ive found Mr Ls recollection  be detailed and he has remained consistent 
throughout his communications with Caledonian and this service.  So, on balance I think Mr L 
was told his practical training would be at a local venue and hed need to be onsite for an 
assessment for a week.  
There is no duration for the NVQ  onsite  assessment  given in the course paperwork. T has 
explained that this is because the length  of this part of the course  varies,  some students take 
up to three  weeks, whilst others with relevant experience complete this in less time. As I 
understand it Mr L has relevant experience, so may be able to complete  the assessment in 
less time. So, Im not satisfied that the salespersons statement about the onsite assessment 
was false.
I can see that the local venue  the salesperson told Mr L hed attend is not listed as a location  
for his course. So, Im satisfied the salesperson  made a false  statement about  the location.  
However, I also need to be persuaded that the salespersons statement was a key factor  to 
him entering  the contract. And Im not, I say this because Mr L says he discovered  where  the 
practical training  would take place, two months  after signing up for the course. But he did not 
complain about  this until two years  into the course.  
If the locality of the training venue  was a Mr L key factor  in Mr Ls decision to enter the 
contract with T, I would have expected  him to raise  this as soon as he realised, hed be 
making a 110-mile roundtrip  to the training venue.  So, Im not persuaded that this made a 
difference to him deciding to enter the contract. 
Mr L told us that he didnt complain about the training location earlier because he did not 
mind the distance  at first, but this became an issue when  his wife suffered health  problems 
and he found  out he would need to be onsite for three weeks. Im sorry to hear about Mr Ls 
wife and appreciate  that this would have been a very difficult  time for them. However, it 
appears that Mr Ls complaint about  the training location and the duration of the onsite 
assessment originates  from this change in personal  circumstances,  rather  than what the 
salesperson said.  
Mr L has provided a statement from another student about the location being 
misrepresented and referred us to negative online reviews about T. Whilst Im not disputing  
that other  people may have had bad experiences  with T and that this may be helpful in 
showing a pattern of behaviour. However, Im not persuaded in this case that any false  
Ref: DRN81435633statement about the training location  or the online assessment  made a material  difference to 
Mr L signing up for the course.
I sympathise with Mr Ls personal  circumstances-  but taking everything into account Im 
unable to say that there has been  any breach of contract or misrepresentation by T. So, I 
dont think it is fair or reasonable for me to require Caledonian  to take any action in response 
to Mr Ls complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020. 
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8143563