K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained about a life protection policy she was sold by Zurich  Assurance  Ltd. 
She has said she doesnt remember taking the policy out and the details  of it were never 
explained to her at the time of the sale. She has also complained that she didnt need the 
cover as she had ample cover through her employer.
background
Mrs W was taking out a mortgage in 2003.  At the same time she was sold a life protection  
policy called a High Cost Lifestyle Plan.  This meant the initial  premium  level of the policy 
was much lower than a standard plan but it would increase  each year in line with Mrs Ws 
age and outstanding term of the plan. 
The plan was set up with a sum assured of £65,500 over the term of twenty-five years. 
There is very little information  provided  by both parties but it would appear that the policy  
matched the amount and term of the mortgage Mrs W was taking out. The policy  also 
concluded critical illness cover and waiver of premium  benefit.
The only information  we have about Mrs W at the time of the sale was that she was in her 
thirties, was working  for the NHS  and had two dependent children.  She also didnt appear to 
have any other life protection in place  at that point  in time.
Mrs W has said she didnt  know what the policy was nor does she remember asking to take 
it out or having  the details  of it explained to her. She feels because  of the cover she had 
through her employer  that she had no need  for the protection.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be 
upheld. He felt the life protection  was useful cover for Mrs W to have because she was 
taking out a large level of borrowing and had two dependent  children who could be impacted 
by her death during the term of the mortgage. But he didnt think  the type of policy was the 
most suitable for her. He felt a standard  decreasing  term assurance  policy  with critical illness 
cover would have  been  more suitable for her rather than a policy that became more 
expensive each year it was in place.
Zurich didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W. It also added that all of its policies were unit linked  and so would all have 
required regular increases in the premiums.
While the investigator considered the points raised by Zurich  he wasnt persuaded to change  
his initial  outcome. So as no agreement could  be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator that the complaint should be upheld.
Although the information is sparse  from the time of the sale I am satisfied that a life 
protection policy with critical  illness cover  was a suitable policy for Mrs W to take out. 
I appreciate she had good benefits  through her employer but those benefits wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN80994092replicated the cover that a life protection  policy  provided. As she was taking out a significant 
level of borrowing and the fact she had two dependent children the policy  was useful 
because it meant that had she passed  away during the term of the mortgage a lump sum 
payment would have  been made  under the policy which couldve been used by her 
remaining family to discharge the remainder of the mortgage in its entirety. This would mean 
that there  would be no burden on her remaining family to find this money elsewhere nor 
would there  be a risk to their home.
However, it would  appear to me that Mrs Ws need  for life protection  was probably quite 
basic in that it looks  like only protection for the mortgage was required, (no requirement  was 
noted for family  protection or for a policy to provide  any other type of protection). Because of 
this I dont think the policy she was sold was the most suitable for her. I see no reason why 
Mrs W was sold a policy that would  constantly cost her more for all the years she kept it in 
place when a standard  decreasing term assurance  policy with critical illness cover was 
available. 
I appreciate Zurich has said that all of its policies were unit linked. But this is no reason to 
sell a policy which wasnt in line with the requirements of its customer  or a policy  which 
wasnt in the best interests of its customer. I also am aware that Zurich  has questioned the 
type of mortgage  the policy was sold to protect, Mrs W has confirmed  it was a repayment 
mortgage so I have no reason to doubt  this.
Therefore in light of what I have  said I think Mrs W was unnecessarily sold a policy  which 
would end up costing  her more over the years. I dont think this was right for her although 
I do think some sort of protection  should  have been put in place. I therefore think that Mrs W 
should have been sold a standard decreasing term assurance policy  with critical illness 
protection, where the premiums  remained  static  throughout  the term of the policy for the 
amount and term of the mortgage  (£65,500 and twenty-five  years).
what Zurich Assurance Ltd should  do to put things right
Zurich should  compare the cost of a standard decreasing  term assurance  policy  with 
critical illness cover (set up on Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of the sale in 2003)  
with the cost of the policy Mrs W was sold.
If the more suitable policy would have  been cheaper, Zurich  should refund the 
difference in cost to Mrs W, plus 8% simple interest. 
This refund should be paid from policy inception until the date of cancellation.
It is worth Mrs W noting that if the correct  policy is more  expensive than the one she was 
actually sold then there would be no redress due to her because while she was sold an 
unsuitable policy she had benefitted from it being cheaper than the correct one she should  
have been sold.
Ref: DRN80994093my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Zurich Assurance  Ltd must pay Mrs W redress as detailed  and calculated  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8099409