K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a NatWest  credit  card in 1997. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr Y disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form which Mr Y signed when he took out his credit card. 
This has a separate section in it dealing  with PPI. And in this section I can see that Mr Y has 
signed next to the statement YES, I would like to take advantage of the peace of mind 
offered by Credit Card Repayment  Protector Theres  an equally prominent statement 
which Mr Y could have signed  against  declining this cover.
So from the evidence  Ive seen, I think Mr Y actively  chose to take out the PPI cover,  
knowing that it was optional. But this sale took place a very long time ago, and I can 
understand why he might  not remember this now.
Mr Y says that, although its his signature  on the application form, some  of the other  parts of 
the form are not in his writing. So he thinks that the form must have been completed in a 
NatWest branch. And as NatWest cant say for sure how the PPI was sold, Ive taken this to 
be the case. 
Although, quite understandably, Mr Y cant now remember  whether he was given any advice 
about taking out PPI cover, NatWest  says that no advice would have  been  given to him on 
this type of PPI sale. And from what Ive seen, Ive no reason to think that NatWest  would 
have provided  Mr Y with such advice.  This means  that it didnt need to ensure that the policy 
was suitable for him. But NatWest did still need  to give Mr Y enough information about  the 
policy for him to decide if he wanted  it. I dont  think the information  NatWest gave him was 
as good as it could have  been. But I dont think better information would have changed his 
mind about  taking it. I say this because:
Mr Y appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr Y says he would  have been  eligible  for sick pay from his employer and is also likely to 
have had some savings at the time of the sale. But this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to these  - for up to twelve months  on a successful  claim because  Mr Y wasnt  
able to work through an accident,  sickness or unemployment. This would have allowed 
Ref: DRN86358582him to use any alternative means  he had available to pay for other essential expenditure, 
in what would have  been a difficult time for him. So I still think he would have valued the 
extra security the PPI cover gave  him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr Y. And as it was paid for monthly, 
he could have cancelled  it if it no longer  met his needs.
So I dont  think that Mr Y has lost out by anything that NatWest may have done wrong when 
it sold him this policy.
my final decision
It follows from what Ive said that Im not upholding this complaint  against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8635858