K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She is represented by a third 
party.
background
Using information from Oakam  I have  created  this loan table.  I have noticed  that the 
documents marked schedule and the documents named as statements differ in the total 
amounts to be repaid for the loans. So, this table is an indication  based on the information 
I have before me and for the purposes of calculating any redress  then the parties  need  to 
refer to the up to date accounts and documents.  
Loan Date 
approvedAmount 
including 
admin feesrepayment Length  of 
agreementAdmin 
fees 
added 
to loanCost of 
credit Amount 
refinanced  
into next
1 26 March 
2012£245 (£200 
+ fees)£15 weekly 6 months £45 £197 £86.91
2 16 June 
2012£546.91 
(refinanced 
amount + 
£400 + 
fees)£20 weekly 12 months £60 £553.09 £406.59
3 24 Oct 
2012£906.59
(£406.59 + 
£500 + 
fees)£70 every 2 
weeks12 months £75 £950.41 £404.57
4 27 April 
2013£1,904.57 
(£1,500 + 
£404.57 + 
fees)£88 every 2 
weeks18 months £225 £1,543.43
After Mrs J had complained to Oakam, its final response letter to her was that Oakam upheld 
Loan 3 and made a goodwill offer to write  off the balance on Loan 4. 
It said: our usual affordability checks were  carried out appropriately but were  not processed  
within Oakams  acceptable standards. As such, we would be in a position to uphold  [Mrs Js] 
complaint for her loan taken on 24 October 2012.
And: As a gesture  of goodwill Oakam is willing to waive this balance. Please note that this 
sum does  constitute  a complete waiver  of any interest or fees that may have  incurred as the 
account has been paid in arrears.
Before she accepted either of these offers Mrs J referred the complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators originally upheld Loan  4 but did not refer to Oakams own resolution 
for Loan 3. So, the complaint was reviewed, and more recently our adjudicator thought  that 
Oakam should put things right for Mrs J in relation to Loans  3 and 4.
Oakam has accepted the adjudicators opinion about Loan 3 and so I do not need to review  
it as this is not disputed. It disagrees  with our adjudicators opinion on Loan 4 and has sent 
us submissions as to why. But Oakham  has confirmed that it has waived what it says was 
the outstanding balance  on Loan 4 of £405.17.  
Ref: DRN88853232Mrs J and her representative have not responded to either of the adjudicators opinions and 
so from that I take it that she agrees. As such I do not plan to review  Loans 1 and 2 as it 
seems that Mrs J is content with the opinion about  those.  
That leaves Loan 4 only as a disputed  loan and so my decision has focussed  on that.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. I appreciate that Loan  4 would not automatically 
fall into the category of short-term loan but it was the fourth in a series  of high-cost 
instalment loans which would have attracted the same Office  of Fair Trading Guidelines 
when providing  a loan to a consumer.  
Oakam has described  Loan 4 as an amortizing  instalment loan. It was the last in a series of 
loans for Mrs J and I have viewed it within the context of that lending history and previous 
repayment behaviour by Mrs J. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. In the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oakam  was required to establish  
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible  Lending Guide defined sustainable as 
being the ability to repay  without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
Ref: DRN88853233And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.
As I have outlined in the background section to this final decision, I am reviewing Loan 4. 
Within the context of the overall lending  relationship  I can see that each  loan was refinanced  
into the next. And after a year of lending  to Mrs J, I think that a full financial review ought to 
have been carried  out to establish the reality  behind the repeated requests for ever larger 
loans and the refinancing  of the previous  loans.  
Just over £400 was refinanced from Loan 2 into Loan 3 and almost the same amount was 
needing to be refinanced  into Loan 4. Which suggests to me that Mrs J had got herself  into a 
position where she was paying high levels of interest over several months  without making 
any inroads into the principal sum owed. That then became the refinanced sum with 
additional charges, fees and interest and so the process continued. 
By April 2013, Mrs J had refinanced twice already which, I think,  likely  showed that she was 
having some  difficulty repaying  and needed more capital. And then she asked for a further 
refinance plus an additional £1,500. Her verified  salary  Oakam  looked at her bank 
statements - was around £700  net each month with the remainder of the declared income 
(around £1,330) made up of child tax credits and benefits. She had told them  that she had 
three dependents. The repayment for Loan  4 was effectively about £191  a calendar month 
(£88 each  two weeks)  and that was a fairly  large  portion of her net monthly wage (£700) 
although I accept  that her total monthly income was higher than this. But with three 
dependants then my view is that a lot of the benefits and credits made available  to her were  
to assist with maintaining  those dependants.  
Oakams own notes  at the time of her application  demonstrate that she had arrears,  one 
delinquent account it could see and two defaults  - one being recent. Three  of her credit  
accounts were in arrears  running to several  thousand pounds: £3,410. 
The overall picture arrived at through a combination  of Oakams credit searches, its own 
notes and Mrs Js lending  history did not present as being a customer able sustainably to 
manage and repay her debts. Loan  4 was due to be for a further 18 months  and would have 
extended her indebtedness  again.  
I uphold Mrs Js complaint about  Loan  4.
putting things right  what Oakam needs  to do
Oakam shouldnt have  given  Mrs J Loans  3 and 4. If it has sold the outstanding debts it 
should buy these  back if possible and then take the following steps.  If the debts are not able 
to be repurchased,  Oakam needs  to liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans which do not have an outstanding balance, 
not including  anything it has already refunded.
Ref: DRN88853234B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by
Mrs J which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs J originally made  
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam  should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
loans which  has an outstanding balance, and treat any repayments made by Mrs J as 
though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding  loans.  
If this results  in Mrs J having made overpayments then Oakam  should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Oakam  should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans (and any principal youve
already written-off).  If this results in a surplus amount, then that should  be paid to Mrs J. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Oakam  should try to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mrs J. 
Oakam shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Oakam should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Js credit file in relation 
to Loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest.  It should  give
Mrs J a certificate showing  how much tax has been  deducted, if she asks for one.
I note that recently  (15 January 2020)  Oakham  has said that since  the start of Loan 4, Mrs J 
has paid a total of £3,042.83, the amount  to pay was £3,448 and the sum waived  was 
£405.17.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mrs Js complaint in part. Oakam  Ltd should do 
as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885323