K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains that an appointed representative  of The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited mis-sold her a protection policy which included  life assurance,  mortgage  payment 
benefit, waiver of premium benefit  and unemployment cover.
She says she was told she had to take out the policy to get her mortgage  agreed and wasnt 
told it was optional. She also said she didnt have a need for the policy.   
Background
In July 2001, Mrs H met with an advisor  who was an appointed representative of Prudential.  
She was in the process of buying  her first property and received  information about taking out 
a mortgage as well as protection advice. 
The advisor recommended a policy  lasting  20 years that provided £100  of life cover  on a 
level basis. The policy  also provided:
waiver of premium benefit;
mortgage payment benefit of £400  a month to help cover the mortgage payments in the 
event of illness or injury;
unemployment cover of £400 a month to help with the mortgage payments in the event 
she lost her job.
The illustration set out the cost of the policy and provided a breakdown  of the different 
elements of the cover. The total cost was around £24 a month.
The documentation  completed at the time recorded  that Mrs H declined life cover and critical 
illness cover.  It explained that a minimal level of life cover was needed for the plan to be 
written, so for this reason £100 of life cover was included  with the policy.
In 2019, Mrs H complained to Prudential about the sale of the policy,  but it didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold. Mrs H then referred  her complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  She didnt feel it should be upheld. She said there 
was enough evidence to suggest that Mrs H had chosen to take out the policy. She didnt 
think the evidence  supported that Mrs H had been pressured into taking  out the policy.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary, she reiterated the following points:
She was not told by the advisor  the insurance  was optional and was just told to take it out.
She was a 27 year old woman on her own in the sales meeting and inexperienced in 
this situation.  And she was told her mortgage would  be rejected if she did not take the 
policy out  putting  her under immense pressure.
She didnt need the insurance at the time as she was in full time employment with 
sickness and life cover policies. She also had parents  who were in a financially secure 
position who would have assisted should  she have  been made unemployed.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN84416862My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why below.
Firstly, Ive looked at the concerns Mrs H has raised  about not being  given  a choice about 
the policy. She says she was told she wouldnt  get her mortgage  if she didnt take the policy 
out. The sale took place many years  ago, so it is difficult to know exactly what  happened.  
Mrs Hs comments  are evidence I take into account   and Ive considered them  carefully. 
Prudential say the policy wasnt compulsory, and the advisor didnt pressure Mrs H into 
taking it out. Ive also reviewed the documentation  available from the time to help understand 
what is most likely  to have been  discussed.  
Having reviewed everything, I havent  seen anything to suggest the policy was a compulsory 
part of an application  for a mortgage. Prudential has provided a copy  of the fact find 
document, reasons why report and application form. These documents  indicate  that Mrs H 
turned down elements of the advice for products  she didnt require (for example critical 
illness cover). This supports that she was given  a choice and she understood that she didnt  
have to accept  everything  that was recommended to her. The reasons why report contains  a 
signed declaration that says Mrs H understood there  is no obligation to accept the 
recommendation. There is also a separate application for the policy  and this describes the 
mortgage repayment protection and unemployment  cover under a section called optional  
benefits. This is all evidence to support that Mrs H was given a choice. 
I know Mrs H feels strongly that she was put under  pressure and wasnt  given an option  to 
take out a mortgage without the policy.  But taking  everything into account,  I dont think  the 
balance of evidence  supports this. It may be that the adviser  was very persuasive in how he 
explained the benefits of the cover  to Mrs H. So, I think it is possible she was told that it was 
a good idea for her to take the cover  she had the greatest  need  for rather than something 
she had to have.  In reaching my decision,  Ive thought about  what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  based on all the evidence available.  And having  done so, I dont think the 
policy was sold as compulsory or that Mrs H wasnt  given a proper choice about it.
Ive also looked  at whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H. Again, Ive 
reviewed the documentation available alongside Mrs Hs recollections to build an 
understanding of her needs and circumstances  at the time.  The reasons why report records 
that her primary needs were protecting her mortgage repayments and unemployment cover.  
Mrs H was sold a mortgage protection policy that provided the option to take several 
different benefits  all linked to the repayment  of a mortgage. As explained above, Mrs H was 
buying her first property  and the policy she took out gave a small amount of life cover, but 
the main benefits  of the policy were mortgage  repayment cover (in the event of accident  or 
illness) and unemployment cover. 
Mrs H was taking on a new financial commitment, so I think it was reasonable for Prudential  
to recommend some form of protection. What I need to decide is whether the actual policy  
she took out was suitable  for her needs  and circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN84416863Ive firstly  considered the mortgage protection  cover part of the policy.  This is designed to help 
meet mortgage repayments if the policyholder is unable to work due to illness  or injury.  There 
is a deferred period  before benefit is paid. From the information Ive seen from the time of the 
sale (the fact find document, application form and illustration) Mrs Hs policy  was set up to 
provide a benefit that was broadly in line with her monthly mortgage payment  (including the 
cost of the insurance). She did have some  sick pay from her employer but according to the 
fact find this was only for three months.  So, this would  help her meet  her repayments if she 
was off work  for a short period of time but if she was off for an extended period, she did have a 
need for additional cover. The policy would pay a claim for significantly longer than her work 
benefits. So, I think she had need for this element of the policy.
The other main benefit of the policy was the unemployment cover. This would help Mrs H 
meet her mortgage  repayments should  she lose her job. From  what  I know of her 
circumstances, she didnt  have much in the way of savings or any other policies that she 
could use to make her mortgage  repayments in this situation. She says her parents were  
financially stable and would have helped her out. Ive no reason to doubt  what Mrs H says 
about the support she expected to receive  from her parents. But Im also conscious 
circumstances can change over the length of a mortgage term. So, I dont think  it was 
unsuitable to recommend  a policy that gave the additional security  of unemployment cover  
particularly as the monthly premium looked  affordable for Mrs H. 
It is recorded in the point  of sale documentation  that Mrs H didnt want or feel she needed 
life cover.  But the policy did include life cover benefit  (£100). Prudential  say a minimum 
amount of life cover  was required as part of the policy terms. I agree from looking at her 
circumstances that Mrs H had little need for life cover. But I dont think  inclusion of life cover 
makes the overall  recommendation unsuitable.  The cost of the life cover was only one pence 
a month  and as it was required  to benefit  from the other elements of the cover - which I think  
are suitable.  So, for these  reasons  I think the policy was something  Mrs H would find useful 
if she was off sick for an extended  period  or lost her job.  
Overall, I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H and I dont find that it 
was sold as compulsory.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8441686