K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  wrongly held her at fault for an accident after 
she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. Miss S is represented  by Mr B.
background
On 3 April 2018  Miss L and another driver  were  involved in a collision at a junction  controlled 
by traffic lights. Miss L provided Aviva with dashcam  footage showing what  happened. The 
footage showed that Miss L set off on a green traffic light and collided with the other drivers 
car as it crossed her path. Miss S said the other  driver must have gone through  a red light. 
An independent witness who was waiting to cross in front of Miss Ls car said he thought  the 
other driver was at fault. The witness said he must have gone  through  a red light.  
Aviva said Miss L could have avoided  the accident as the other driver was there  to be seen. 
It said there was nothing to show that hed driven through a red light. Aviva thought the other  
drivers claim  couldnt have been  defended successfully  in court.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Ls complaint. He thought Aviva had acted 
reasonably. He said it had taken account  of all the evidence and had also taken legal advice. 
It didnt think the witnesss  account was persuasive  as he had his back to the other driver 
and couldnt see whether  he went through  a red light or not. And it thought the other driver 
was clearly visible to Miss L as she set off, so she could have prevented the collision.
Mr B said Aviva hadnt carried out a thorough investigation. He said initially it treated the 
claim as non-fault,  and then changed  its mind.  In the meantime, Mr Bs colleague had written 
to Miss L on 25 April 208 to say that any costs she incurred (such  as her policy excess) 
would be reclaimed from the other  driver.  He also said Aviva had never  advised  Miss L what  
the cost of the claim was. 
The investigator said Aviva had told Miss L on 13 April 2018  that it thought she was at fault, 
having reviewed  the dashcam footage. When Mr Bs colleague called to query Avivas 
stance, Aviva told him it had sent the witness statement to the other insurer,  but that it made  
no difference to the outcome. The investigator thought Avivas view had been consistent. As 
there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Miss L thought she wouldnt  be held at fault for the claim. It isnt in dispute that 
she only moved into the junction  when  the traffic light on her part of the road turned green.
But I think Aviva  had to take more  than that fact into consideration. The dashcam footage  
shows that neither  Miss L nor the independent  witness could see the other drivers traffic 
lights. So Aviva thought that neither  of them could say with any certainty that the other driver 
moved forward after his light had turned to red. Aviva thought  the other driver could have 
been within the junction - past the lights - when they changed to red. There isnt an account 
of the accident  from the other  driver or his insurer on the file. I think thats unusual, and it 
may have  been  useful  to see the other drivers version of events. But in the circumstances 
here it seems unlikely it would have  made  any difference  to the outcome.
Ref: DRN88326762I think it was reasonable  for Aviva also to take account of the way a court would probably 
view what happened.  On the dashcam footage, the other drivers  car could be seen as it 
approached Miss Ls part of the junction. It wasnt moving fast. Miss L was moving forward  
very slowly from a stationary position at the lights. Avivas view was that she should have 
noted the other cars presence and waited a few seconds for it to pass by. It thought as the 
collision could then easily have been avoided, a judge was likely to find Miss L at fault.   
We dont decide  who was to blame for an accident, but given the particular facts  in this case, 
I think it was reasonable  for Aviva to make the decision it did. The notes show it took legal 
advice first. Insurers dont usually try to defend  a claim unless theres a reasonable prospect 
of success in court. I think Aviva  has shown why it thought that wasnt a likely outcome here.  
It isnt clear from the file notes why Mr B thinks Aviva initially treated the claim as non-fault.  
As far as I can see, as soon as its advisors  viewed  the dashcam evidence on 11 April 2018, 
they concluded that Miss L was at fault. Miss L and her father were told what  Avivas  view 
was two days later, at which  point Miss L father said they were going to cancel the claim and 
take legal  advice. It seems from the notes that Miss L had the car repaired at her own 
garage and Aviva later gave her a cash payment in lieu of repairs.  
I think its possible that confusion arose  when an advisor told Mr Bs colleague that the 
witnesss statement had been  sent to the other  insurer to see if it made  any difference to that 
insurers view on liability. Aviva had already noted  that the witness couldnt  see the other 
drivers traffic lights. I think  it was reasonable for it to check  with the other insurer  to see if it 
was prepared to change its view. But I think its clear that Avivas view hadnt changed. 
Recently we asked  Aviva to clarify the status  of the claim. It said subsequent legal advice led 
it to change its stance  on liability  in 2019.  Aviva  says it has only paid half of the other  drivers 
costs and is pursuing the recovery  of 50% of Miss Ls costs.  
I think Aviva  handled the claim  reasonably by looking at the available  evidence and by taking  
legal advice. So although  I can see why Miss L was unhappy with the stance it took, I cant  
uphold her complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8832676