K820x#14complaint
Ms Ys representative, her adviser Mr B, complains on her behalf  about the £50 
compensation offered by ReAssure Limited, for the incorrect destruction  of an original trust 
deed.  
background
In 2017, the late Mr G completed  a trust deed  for a long standing insurance  policy,  making 
Ms Y the sole beneficiary and trustee. 
Mr G sadly died not long after doing  so, and in due course ReAssure paid out the proceeds 
to Ms Y. 
ReAssure says it scanned  the original deed  document and then securely  destroyed it. But 
Ms Y remains concerned about  the possible implications of this. In particular, in relation to 
her being  sued by another potential  beneficiary under the trust, and or any potential 
Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability.    
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
He wasnt satisfied  that the destruction of this document had caused Ms Y any 
significant prejudice. 
He appreciates that there may be concern about  the validity  of the trust, now that the 
original document  is no longer in existence,  as it could be seen as a way to avoid 
creditors or anyone making a possible dependency  claim  on Mr Gs estate. But 
because there is still a copy of the trust deed,  the lack of an original isnt going to 
cause any prejudice. 
He doesnt  think the lack of the original  deed  is likely to affect the outcome  of any 
potential court proceedings, just because  the original is no longer in existence.  
Mr B doesnt  entirely agree with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
At my request the adjudicator approached ReAssure about  increasing its offer to £100. It 
agreed my suggestion is fair and reasonable but equally feels its offer is fair too.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  I uphold this complaint. I dont 
think £50 compensation is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate whats being  said about the lack of prejudice to Ms Y, and that shes  not 
suffered an adverse consequence. But I dont think its simply a question  of prejudice and 
nothing else. ReAssure  has destroyed an original  document that she sent in confidence, with 
the expectation of having  it returned  in one piece. 
Ref: DRN89715082Its unclear why ReAssure  destroyed an original  document having scanned it online.  I could  
probably understand its actions had it been a signed copy. And Im unable  to safely say that 
any claims against the estate are likely  to be straightforward, without the original document.   
In the circumstances I think ReAssure should  pay Ms Y in total £100  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  it has clearly caused, less anything already paid. 
Im mindful that this complaint is potentially evidence in support of the existence and 
provenance of the original trust deed  document. And there  is a scanned copy of the original.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I think ReAssure should pay Ms Y £100  compensation  for any trouble and upset caused. 
Less any money already  paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Dara Islam 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8971508