K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with an Evans store card 
she took out in 1995. The credit facility was provided  by a high street bank, but a company 
called Financial Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering Mrs Ws complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The card was taken  out in a store setting and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. 
PPI was added on to the card and Mrs W says she doesnt remember  ever agreeing to it.
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs W 
disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.  
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve  spoken  at length to the 
company involved  to gain an understanding of the processes that were  generally used. We 
now know consumers were asked  to fill out a form which was part of a wider leaflet-based 
application leaflet.  
I was sent the form Mrs W filled out when  she took out the card. I can see there  was a 
section on it about  PPI. This invited her to either tick a yes or no option box to have the 
PPI cover.   Mrs W ticked the yes option and signed the form. So I think  this clearly suggests  
that she did want PPI when she applied for her card. Because I also think she wouldve  had 
access to the terms and conditions, I think she consented to the PPI. 
FICL therefore got Mrs Ws agreement to add this cover.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Mrs W to decide  for herself whether  she wanted the cover.  I think  FICL could 
have set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall I do think 
Mrs W had access  to enough information to allow her to make an informed decision.  
The company representing Mrs W said a medical  condition she had at the time of the sale 
may have  made claiming on the policy difficult. Our adjudicator, however, didnt think this 
affected anything  and I agree with this. 
I note shed never been off work  ill with this issue and whilst  I certainly  wouldnt wish to imply 
that the medical condition Mrs W had wasnt  a concern for her, I dont think  it would have 
changed what she did. The particular policy, for example, only paid out for sickness  after the 
policy-holder had been off ill from work for 30 days and I dont think  this medical condition 
was in that category. Put another way, I dont think she wouldve envisaged that claiming on 
Ref: DRN82259922the PPI for this particular medical  condition  was very likely. So it wouldnt have determined 
whether or not she still ought to buy it.
I did, however, look at all the other aspects of the sale very carefully.  She was eligible  for the 
cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions  we tend to see in some of these  
policies. The cost of the PPI was relatively  expensive, but the benefits  the policy offered 
gave more protection than most  credit  cards. For example, if shed become unable to work  
or lost her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance  each 
month until she returned to work or until all the balance  was returned to zero.  These benefits 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  Mrs W had in place at the time.
I see Mrs W had some  sickness protection with her job of that time, but these benefits were  
quite moderate.  As Ive said, the decision about PPI was hers to make and I think  the PPI 
policy was something  that would have  been of use to her. I think  this probably explains why 
Mrs W chose  it on the application form.
Finally, I see Mrs W says shes had a similar PPI complaint,  from a later year, upheld by the 
same business. I understand why she might think this means  her 1995 PPI should  be upheld 
too. But Ive looked specifically at this sale and her particular circumstances at the time. I 
cant comment on that other case,  but the 1995  policy Ive been  looking into wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I dont require  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8225992