K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has on finance through RCI Financial Services Limited  (RCI)  
was misrepresented to him. Hed like to reject the vehicle.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used electric  car in March  2018. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI and says he was told the car would  achieve  a range of 90 
miles when  fully charged.
Mr B has logged  the ranges hes achieved since he took receipt of the vehicle. Hes 
disappointed that hes only been  able to achieve around 70 miles as he says the 
dealerships comments  were clear. They told him the car would achieve around 90 miles on 
a full charge not anything  between  60 and 90 miles.   He thinks  the dealerships description 
was therefore  misleading and that the car was misrepresented  to him as it doesnt  match  the 
description he was given.
RCI said that in order  for them to assess  Mr Bs claim  he would need to book  it into a 
dealership for an inspection. They  also suggested  he could arrange an independent  
inspection. But they said that until this was completed they couldnt accept there was 
anything wrong  with the car or that it had been  mis-sold. 
But Mr B wouldnt agree to an inspection by a manufacturers dealership.  He said he had the 
detailed logs and couldnt understand what an inspection  would  achieve  other  than to have 
another view gained by the same means and by the seller. He said he wasnt necessarily 
suggesting a fault with the vehicle but was suggesting that what he was told was not an 
accurate representation  of the range his car could cover.
He therefore referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator took a look at the 
evidence. She didnt dispute  that Mr B had been told the car had a more extensive range 
than hed witnessed, as she noted RCI hadnt  challenged  this. But she did explain that she 
couldnt just take Mr Bs word for it and she didnt have enough information to confidently  ask 
that the car be rejected.  She noted that RCI had always been  prepared to have an 
inspection done  and she thought this was a fair offer. And she also noted  that in the records 
Mr B had provided there  had been times when the car had achieved a range  in excess of 90 
miles on a full charge.  So she didnt think she had sufficient information to suggest RCI took 
any further action.
But Mr B disagreed. He couldnt understand what it was the investigator was hoping to 
achieve by asking a manufacturers dealership  to inspect the car and he asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I agree with the adjudicators  view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain. 
Ref: DRN82183232Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant  law also says that if Mr B was told something that was incorrect,  and if he relied 
on this information  when deciding to enter into the contract  with RCI, then I could reasonably  
hold RCI responsible for this misrepresentation and ask it to put things right.
Mr B has provided his own detailed records of the range hes achieved in his car and he 
says this is significantly less than he was led to believe was realistic.  Hes diligently put 
these figures together and I have no reason to dispute his findings.  But it would be most 
unreasonable to expect  RCI to accept them without further corroboration.
Its only fair that they are given the opportunity to take a look at the problem first but Mr B 
hasnt been prepared to allow this inspection to happen. In his most recent email he said:
I have been clear  that I am not prepared to proceed with an inspection (by the business) as 
things stand  and there has been no change  of circumstances
He went on to explain that we were wasting our time even considering  an independent  
inspection because he questioned what use the information would  be.
In the absence of an inspection of any kind I therefore have to make a decision based  on the 
information I have  available  to me and Im not persuaded that there is any evidence  the car 
has been misrepresented  or theres  any other reason RCI need to take action. I say that 
because:
its not been possible to arrange  a second  opinion
the official range has been laboratory  tested, to a defined testing regime; considering  
varying factors such as; road and traffic  conditions; alternating  speed and hot and 
cold starts. The conditions  that Mr B drove  in may not mirror these and therefore a 
direct comparison  is difficult. 
Ref: DRN82183233as the official  range  is a standardised approach across the motor industry I am more 
persuaded by those  figures than Mr Bs
Mr B is not claiming any mechanical or electrical fault with the car that may explain 
the issues hes identified. If he had, the law may have  allowed me to ask RCI to take 
further action. But that would have  required a further inspection by them  - one that  
Mr B is not willing to sanction
So I dont  think RCI have  done anything wrong here or need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8218323