K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains about the way Zurich Insurance Plc handled  her buildings  insurance claim 
following an escape  of waste  from a defective  sewage pipe at her flat. 
background 
Mrs M is a beneficiary of Zurichs buildings insurance policy.  The policyholder is Mrs Ms 
local authority. A sewer pipe under the block of flats housing Mrs Ms property burst  towards 
the end of July 2018. Mrs M moved out of her flat to stay with friends  because  of the smell. 
The local authority attended to fix the pipe and notified the residents in the block  that it 
intended to split the cost of the repair equally  between them  (approximately £108).  Mrs M 
noticed that her flat still smelled and suspected that raw sewage had found its way into the 
void under  her floorboards. On 6 August 2018,  Mrs M contacted  Zurich  to say that she 
wanted to make a claim for the damage  caused  to her flat and for the share  of the cost of the 
replacement pipe that Zurich wanted  to charge her. 
Zurich accepted the claim and appointed  a claims handling company. It told Mrs M that she 
wasnt covered for the repair of the pipe but she was covered for the damage to her flat. 
A contractor  was appointed about a week later to assess the damage and carry out a 
survey. On 25 September a drying company was appointed to take bacteria tests and on 2 
October it confirmed that drying was required.  The property was declared  dry at the end of 
October. Works started on 26 November and Mrs M moved back  in on 15 December. 
Mrs M made  a complaint to Zurich towards the end of November 2018. She said itd been 
unsafe for her to remain  in her home. Zurich replied to say that it accepted  that it hadnt been  
made clear to her when  it was safe to stay in her home. It accepted  that since the strip out 
that had recently  taken  place, Mrs M would be without a bathroom until the anticipated 
completion date in mid-December. It said it could understand why shed moved out of her 
property on 23 July 2018 and it accepted that its communication  couldve been  better.  It 
offered to pay Mrs M a disturbance allowance of £1,330 (£10 a day for 133 days)  and it 
offered to waive the policy excess of £50. Mrs M accepted Zurichs offer.
Mrs M had been told that she should  be able to move home  on 10 December 2018  but in the 
end the works overran  and she moved home on 15 December. On doing so Mrs M 
discovered some snags and made a second  complaint to Zurich  about  the standard  of 
repairs carried out, sending it a list of the areas  she wasnt happy  with, and the overall  
delays in finalising  her claim. Zurichs contractor confirmed it remained in contact with Mrs M 
and intended to sort out the snags. These  were  eventually all finalised on 19 February 2019. 
Zurich issued its final response letter to Mrs Ms second complaint on 25 January 2019. It 
accepted its service had fallen  short  on this occasion and sent Mrs M compensation  of £350 
to apologise for the upset caused. In addition, Zurich replaced  Mrs Ms bathroom door as 
there was now a gap at the bottom  following the removal of two layers of tiles. And it paid 
her £28.39 for the additional electricity used whilst she wasnt  resident.
Mrs M said she had incurred  other costs too such as standing utility  charges and mortgage 
payments. Zurich declined these on the grounds that they were normal costs associated with 
home ownership and didnt form part of the claim. 
Ref: DRN84011722Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mrs M complained to this service  about the delays and 
unprofessional workmanship. Mrs M said she thought further compensation was warranted  
for the untold  stress  and financial  losses shed  incurred.  
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He discovered that Zurich had underpaid the 
disturbance allowance to Mrs M and that it should  pay her an additional £70 for the time she 
spent out of her home.  He said hed not seen any evidence of the additional expenses  
Mrs M said shed  incurred  without  which he couldnt ask Zurich  to consider paying any more. 
He thought the compensation  paid of £350, together with the waived excess  of £50, the 
£28.39 for the electricity and the replacing of the bathroom door (as a gesture of goodwill) 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators findings  and asked for her complaint to be referred 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All insurance  claims attract a certain degree of inconvenience, thats to be expected.  Some 
claims, escape of water  claims amongst them, take longer than others to resolve but the fact 
a claim needs to be made in the first place isnt the fault of the insurer.  Where  an insurer 
makes an already stressful situation worse  through its words and/or deeds   and causes 
the policyholder  avoidable  additional trouble and upset, then this service can make an award  
of compensation.  
Its not in dispute  that Zurichs handling of Mrs Ms claim experienced delays and fell short of 
the customer service it seeks to provide. Zurich has accepted it caused Mrs M upset and 
paid her compensation of £350. I have  to decide  whether  Zurich  has addressed Mrs Ms 
claim fairly and reasonably in the circumstances  and I have  to say I think  it has. I think  that 
compensation of £350 for the avoidable  delays  caused by Zurichs contractors and the 
avoidable inconvenience  caused  by its contractors poor workmanship is fair and 
reasonable. This amount  of compensation is in line with awards made  by this service in 
similar complaints and, if this complaint had passed  across my desk without any 
compensation payment having  already been  offered, its unlikely Id have awarded more.  So 
Im satisfied that, for the avoidable trouble and upset Zurichs actions caused Mrs M, 
compensation of £350 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I can see too that Zurich  waived  the £50 excess payment after Mrs Ms first complaint in 
November 2018  and I can see it paid her £28.39 for the additional electricity its contractors 
used. Both are fair in the circumstances. Mrs M shouldnt be out of pocket  for the electricity  
used by Zurichs contractors. 
I understand that there were  2 layers of tiles on Mrs Ms bathroom floor which  needed to 
removed. They were  replaced by one layer  of tiles which in turn left a noticeable  gap under 
Mrs Ms bathroom door. As a gesture of goodwill, Zurich agreed to replace the door. Mrs M 
has said it shouldnt be accepted as a gesture of goodwill because the need to replace the 
door arose out of Zurichs  actions. Im unable to agree. It wasnt Zurichs fault that there were 
two layers of tiles on the floor or that their removal left a gap under the door. The door itself 
was undamaged and didnt need  replacing. Despite  having no liability  for replacing the door, 
Ref: DRN84011723I can see Zurich did so because Mrs M was unhappy at the unsightly  gap. Zurich did this as 
a gesture of goodwill.  
Following the intervention  of our investigator, I can see that Zurich has paid Mrs M an 
additional £70 disturbance allowance.  Our investigator noticed the number of days Mrs M 
had been out of her home had been  incorrectly added up and Zurich agreed. So Im satisfied 
that Mrs M has now received £10 a day for every day she was out of her home. A 
disturbance allowance is paid to help cover additional expenses  incurred whilst not living  at 
home over and above what  would normally be spent.  
Mrs M thinks  that she shouldve been paid more  as she shouldve been  offered alternative 
accommodation at the start of her claim.  By the time Zurich had been  notified about the 
claim, Mrs M had been staying with friends for about two weeks. Zurichs contractors initially  
assessed that there was no risk to Mrs Ms health  and, as she wasnt without essential 
washing and cooking facilities,  and was staying with friends, alternative accommodation 
wasnt offered. It wasnt until Mrs M first complained about the delays at the end of 
November that it was agreed between Mrs M and Zurich that it would pay her a daily 
disturbance allowance of £10 a day. I think thats  reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I can see that Mrs M has said to our investigator that she incurred other out of pocket 
expenses which shes said came to £1,700.  So Mrs M thinks Zurich should pay her more  
compensation. The costs include the cost of driving back  and forth to the flat to check on 
progress, eating  out costs,  the cost of hiring  a carpet cleaner,  further  utility  costs, £30 a 
week paid to friends and dry cleaning costs. As our investigator pointed out, some  of the 
expenses Mrs M was claiming related to her contents so would fall to be considered under 
any contents policy she had. Insofar  as Mrs M incurred petrol costs travelling to and from the 
flat because she wanted to check on progress I can see this was something she chose to do 
rather than it being a necessity. So I dont think I can reasonably ask Zurich  to consider 
paying Mrs M for the petrol  she used.  
As regards  the other expenses Mrs M has claimed,  I cant  see that shed provided us with 
any proof of her outlay  without which I cant reasonably require Zurich  to consider any of 
them. And, for the eating out and utility costs, Zurich  has paid the disturbance allowance to 
cover the former and paying for the latter is something Mrs M would  always had to have 
done anyway.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Zurich Insurance PLC must pay 
Mrs M an additional £70 disturbance  allowance. If it has already paid this to Mrs M it need  
take no further action but if it hasnt it should do so now. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8401172