K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Barclays Bank Plc will not refund any commission  it 
received from their mortgage  payment  protection insurance (PPI) premiums  for the policy  
they took out in 2004.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, and 
Ill explain  why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ws Mortgage  was taken out in 
2004 and ended in 2006. Mr and Mrs W have said they think  they should  receive  a refund 
because the policy continued beyond the end of this mortgage, but as Ive said above  the 
rules only apply to the dates of the credit  agreement, not the dates the PPI was in place. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
So Barclays  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
they had with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN87763852my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8776385