K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  first taken 
out in 1991. Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them the PPI. Ill refer to the business as Lloyds in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage  and PPI in 1991. Two further advances 
were then taken out in 1997 and 2000.  Lloyds have said that no additional sale of PPI took 
place. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its more likely than not that Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have 
to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
they possibly dont recall this.
I say this because  Ive seen some  of the paperwork from the sale in 1991,  including a 
copy of the Mortgage Proposal. On this document theres a section for PPI titled 
Payment Protection.  
It states C & G Payment  Protection is an inexpensive scheme which will pay all of 
your mortgage related  payments if you are unable to work  due to accident, sickness  
or unemployment. If you wish to receive  a quotation and details please tick. A tick 
has been placed next to this option and Mr and Mrs D have also signed the overall 
application. It seems reasonable to assume that a quotation was received and        
Mr and Mrs D decided to take the PPI as Ive seen evidence that it was added to the 
account.
Mr and Mrs D have said; I think it was suggested Id be better if I took the PPI, I feel 
a bit miffed. As the sale in 1991  took place in a meeting where Lloyds  were  making  a 
recommendation to take PPI, its possible that the Lloyds adviser said that Mr and 
Mrs D should take PPI (because of their circumstances), but this is very different to 
the adviser saying  that Mr and Mrs D had to take PPI. 
 
For the later further advances in 1997 and 2000, it seems that no new sales  took 
place.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I 
think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
Ref: DRN83163692type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs D.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said - including  what theyve said about 
their existing means of making their repayments  if Mr D was unable to work.  But Mr D has 
said that he was only entitled to statutory  sick pay, whereas this policy could have paid out 
for up to 12 months for an accident or sickness claim. Although Mr D has said his wife could 
have helped him, based on the mortgage  application, she was a housewife  at the time of 
sale and no income  has been recorded  for her. So I still think  that they could have found the 
PPI useful. 
The life cover that Mr D has told us about  isnt directly comparable to PPI as it would pay out 
in the unfortunate event of his death, whereas PPI could benefit  him and Mrs D when he was 
still alive - if he was unwell and unable to work or if he was made unemployed.
Although Mr and Mrs D have told us that they had some savings, Ive noted  that there was a 
difference between  the purchase price  and the borrowing amount so its a possibility that 
they had their savings  earmarked for a specific purpose.  In any case, having this PPI policy 
would reduce the likelihood of Mr and Mrs D needing to use their savings to make their 
mortgage repayments  keeping them intact  for future  use.
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs D any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN83163693The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8316369