K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say that they were  mis-sold  a regular premium mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
background
Mr and Mrs F jointly took out a mortgage  with RBS in 2010. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover  their mortgage payments. The policy  was taken in Mrs 
Fs name only and wouldve covered repayments  on the mortgage if Mrs F couldnt  work due 
to sickness or accident or lost her job for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should  be upheld. She thought Mr and 
Mrs F wouldve understood they had a choice in taking  the policy and thought  it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for them.
Mr and Mrs F disagree. They  say they didnt  know they had MPPI and that they didnt need  
it. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
RBS had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs F that they had a choice in taking  the policy. Mr and 
Mrs F say this wasnt done, but they havent  given us much detail about why they thought  
this which  is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. So Ive had to 
proceed on the basis of what information I have and what I think  is most likely to have  
happened.
RBS have given  us a copy of a declaration signed and dated by Mr and Mrs F which 
confirms the insurances  that were discussed  and selected at the time they took out their 
mortgage. The declaration asks Mr and Mrs F to initial next to any of the crossed boxes if 
they no longer  wish to progress  with any of the insurances.
I can see that there is a pre-populated X in the box next to the words  You  want to apply for 
Mortgage Loanguard as part of this application but no initials  - indicating  that they still 
wanted the cover.
I have also seen a copy of the mortgage  application  and offer. The mortgage  application  
shows MPPI was selected for Mrs F only and on the offer document in the insurance section 
it highlights that MPPI  is optional and shows the cost of the monthly premium. 
So on balance I think Mr and Mrs F were given enough information to understand MPPI was 
on offer and was optional.  I think the fact that the policy  was taken in Mrs Fs sole name 
despite the fact both Mr and Mrs F were working and the policy  was to cover their joint 
Ref: DRN86215312mortgage suggests Mr and Mrs F, after some discussion, chose  to only cover  Mrs F  
possibly because Mr F was self-employed. 
And I think this choice was confirmed  by Mr and Mrs F when they completed a separate 
direct debit mandate for MPPI titled in bold font Mortgage Loanguard. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest RBS advised Mr and Mrs F to take out the policy.  What 
this means is that I dont  think it recommended  MPPI to Mr and Mrs F based  on their 
individual circumstances,  it just gave them information about  MPPI and it was up to them to 
decide if they needed it. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed  choice  about taking out the policy.
I dont know if RBS gave  all the information as it shouldve.  But I think  that Mr and Mrs F 
wouldve still taken out the policy because:
Mrs F was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mrs F says she was entitled to a good  level of sick pay and 
was near retirement and didnt  need it. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of her 
work benefits and for potentially longer. And although she was near retirement there  
was still enough  time for her to benefit  from the policy.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs F in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy wasnt affordable for them.  And if they 
decided they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it.
This means  Mr and Mrs F arent any worse off as a result of any wrong  doing  by RBS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8621531