K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs S that she is unhappy with the premiums 
charged to her by Aviva Insurance Limited for her home insurance.
background 
Mrs S took out her policy  through  her local bank with Aviva in 2012.  The initial premium was 
£490.55. It then went  up over the years until 2016, and some of the price rises  were quite 
steep. The 2016  premium was £861.90, though  as Mrs S cancelled her policy  midway  
through the years, she only paid £502.74.  Part of the increase in 2016  was because of an 
error which had meant Mrs Ss no claims discount was reduced when she had enquired  
about a claim which  hadnt  proceeded. She took out a new policy in April 2017  with a 
different insurer. 
In May 2017  Aviva  responded to the complaints  raised on Mrs Ss behalf.  First of all it 
confirmed that an error  had been  made in the calculation of the 2016 premium and that she 
was due a refund. It explained that its adviser had told Mrs S in a phone call in April 2017 
that a refund  of £305.79 was due. It said this figure had been wrongly estimated and that it 
was too much. It nevertheless  agreed  to refund the whole  figure.  It also noted that Mr S had 
been told that Mrs S couldnt cancel, the policy in August 2016 (when it was due for renewal)  
until her complaint was resolved. it acknowledged  that this was wrong so agreed to a refund 
on the basis that Mrs S would have been  able to set up her new policy in August 2016  rather 
than April 2017. The difference  was £377.30.  Aviva further agreed  to pay compensation of 
£200 for failing  initially  to respond to her complaint  and for wrongly advising her about  her 
cancellation rights.
After review by this service Aviva  made  a further offer to refund to Mrs S the difference  in 
premiums she had paid over and above the 2012 premium plus interest at 8% and a further  
£100 compensation. Mr S indicated that they werent happy about this. He felt his mother  
had been vastly overcharged  for her insurance over the years, in comparison with the 
amounts her neighbours were  paying.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the fact that Mr S has been able to find much  cheaper cover  for Mrs S doesnt mean 
that Aviva  has overcharged  her. Insurers can charge very different prices  for what  seems  to 
be very similar cover. Its up to the insurer how much risk it attaches to the cover it provides  
and what it needs  to charge for that as well as its overheads  and profit margin.
We dont generally  tell insurers what they can charge in what is a competitive market.  But we 
are concerned to see that they charge each  customer  fairly within  their own pricing criteria. 
So any customer in a similar position  is charged  a price within a reasonable range for the 
same risk criteria. Taking into account the nature  of the policy  and the information given to 
us by Aviva, I am satisfied  that it has charged for the policy  fairly within its own pricing 
criteria for the risk presented. I should  emphasise though that I can only look back to 2012, 
when it appears that Mrs S took out this particular policy with Aviva. The local banks records  
only go back to 2012 and it isnt required to keep  any older records.
Ref: DRN89650692errors in 2016  premium  and failure to tell Mrs S of her right to cancel
It appears that Mrs Ss premium went up by over 27% at the 2016 renewal. This was partly 
explained by a no claims discount  being  removed when Mrs S had enquired about a claim 
which didnt proceed. Mr S says he was told this was a computer  glitch which  other 
customers may have been affected by. I can however only look at Mrs Ss complaint. Aviva  
agreed to put this right by reducing  the premium  by £305.79. I understand this figure was 
wrong as it didnt take account of the fact that Mrs S cancelled her policy  mid-way through  
the year so hadnt  paid the full premium. Aviva nevertheless agreed to honour the promised  
repayment in full. I think this was reasonable.
As for Mrs S being told she wasnt allowed to cancel her policy,  I note that Aviva agreed that 
she should have  been free to cancel any time she wanted to. But I also note that it agreed to 
refund £377.30  so that Mrs S was in the position  she would've been  in if shed set up her 
new policy in 2016.
Together with the payment for £200 for the trouble and upset caused, I think Avivas  
response, and its repayments were fair and reasonable.
cost of the policy from 2012 to 2015
Mr S has pointed  out that there were  quite large increases in the premiums over the years. 
And his mother is elderly and doesnt  have access to the internet. He says that she placed 
her trust in the bank and Aviva  and was told she had a good  deal.
As Ive said,  the fact that Mrs S managed  to get a cheaper policy  elsewhere  doesnt mean 
that she was necessarily overcharged  by Aviva. But we do consider that, where a customer 
clearly isnt engaging with the insurer, and given it knew her age and potential for 
vulnerability, it should have ensured  the customer was aware of their right to challenge the 
premiums. And so could  reduce the risk of paying  too much  for their insurance in what is 
otherwise a competitive market. In order to treat such an inert customer fairly, we may say 
that an insurer should have done more to ensure that they could engage and that any 
increases in price  post the point  when this should  have  become clear to the insurer may not 
be fair, assuming  that they didnt relate  to any increased risk of that customer claiming.
Here though Aviva has made an offer which is to go back  to 2012 and refund any premiums 
Mrs S had paid over and above the premium  charged in 2012. This will result in a further 
premium refund of £628.34 together with 8% simple interest on those refunds from the date 
the premiums were paid,  until repayment. Aviva has also agreed  to pay a further £100 
compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable and is the sort of award I would be making, 
if Aviva  hadnt made the offer.
my final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made  an offer to resolve this complaint and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  should, in addition  to the refunds and 
compensation it has already paid:
pay to Mrs S a total of £628.34 by way of refund of premiums.
Ref: DRN89650693add interest to the refunded portion of each instalment from the date each was paid until 
the date this award is paid at 8% simple  per year.*
pay Mrs S £100 compensation.
* Aviva Insurance Limited  is required by HM Revenue and Customs  to deduct tax from 
any interest paid. Should Mrs S, or Mr S on her behalf, request it, Aviva  should provide 
her with a certificate showing how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, 
she can reclaim  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8965069