K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Uncle Buck Financial LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr A between  August 2017 and 
April 2018. Mr As borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate  taken 
outDate  RepaidLoan 
amountInterest and 
charges paidHighest 
Instalment
1 10/08/2017 25/10/2017 £500.00 £213.79 £228.85
2 26/10/2017 11/12/2017 £500.00 £180.00 £252.38
3 03/01/2018 16/02/2018 £600.00 £176.37 £186.64
4 05/04/2018 22/05/2018 £600.00 £111.64 £186.64
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint about  all these loans on the basis  that he felt they 
were unaffordable when considering Mr As income  and expenditure at the time. Uncle  Buck 
disagreed stating that Mr A repaid all his loans early and, when considering  his disposable  
income, it felt he had enough money to make  his monthly loan repayments. So, this case  
was passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN87739652refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out affordability checks before lending Mr A any of the loans and it 
was satisfied that Mr A could afford  them. But in order for these  loans to have been 
sustainably affordable for him, he needed  to be able to make the repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow again. 
From the evidence Ive seen of Mr As circumstances it looks  like he wouldve  had little 
income left over after meeting his usual monthly living costs and other  regular commitments  
across the entire period  these loans were taken out. 
When taking out the first loan, it looks like Mr A wouldve had £300 of disposable  income 
after paying  all his essential expenses.  But after making a monthly repayment of £228.85 for 
loan 1, Mr A wouldve had less than £72 per month available  for any other expenses - so this 
left almost no margin for any other unplanned expenses.
When taking out loan 2 it looks like Mr A wouldve still had around £300 of disposable  
income after paying essential expenses. But after making a monthly  repayment  for loan 2, 
Mr A wouldve  had less than £48 available. 
So, from the information Uncle Buck had at the time it ought to have realised that Mr A 
wouldve very little income left each month  for any other expenses or emergencies.  
Uncle Buck  says the figures collected for Mr As expenses  wouldve been round up, allowing 
for some margin of error  and a buffer for Mr A. But with the information Uncle Buck collected 
for loans  1 and 2 it shouldve realised that giving him these loans wouldve put a strain on his 
finances or it shouldve,  at the very least, prompted it to carry out further checks of Mr As 
financial situation. 
By the time Mr A applied  for loans 3 and 4 a proportionate check wouldve involved checking 
more than Mr As income and expenditure. At this time, I wouldve expected Uncle Buck  to 
complete a full financial  review for Mr A. Had Uncle Buck completed a proportionate  check  
Ref: DRN87739653for loans  3 and 4 it would  most  likely have shown  that Mr A had taken out short  term loans 
with other  providers. 
When taking out loans 3 and 4, the evidence of Mr As disposable income  doesnt  include 
the amounts Mr A was paying  for his other short-term loan. And had Uncle Buck  completed  
a proportionate check at these times, it wouldve uncovered that Mr As income  would not 
have covered all his expenses and his all his loan repayments.
Uncle Buck  also says Mr A was married so he couldve  relied on his partner to help with any 
unplanned expenses. But we dont have  any information about  Mr As partners financial 
situation, and in any event a lender is required to assess  the borrowers ability  to repay  the 
borrowing. 
.    
Uncle Buck  had to make  sure the loan was sustainably affordable. Therefore, I think  it ought 
to have realised that leaving Mr A with such little or no disposable  income (after  the loan 
repayments) was most likely to cause him difficulties. So, I think  it was wrong  to give Mr A all 
the loans. 
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 1 to 4 and Uncle  Buck should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 1-4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about 1  4 from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr As complaint. Uncle  Buck Financial LLP 
should pay Mr A compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8773965