K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) have refused to allow him 
to cancel a finance agreement for his daughters training, despite the request being made 
within the relevant  cooling  off period.
He also complains that:
they failed  to make reasonable  adjustments for her condition
the quality  of the course was unsatisfactory
he wasnt told the course would only be available  for 12 months 
background
On 17 January 2018 Mr R took out a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for his daughters web 
development course with a company Ill call T.
His daughter initially  registered for an information  technology course on 11 January and she 
was sent a registration email for that. But two days later she withdrew from the programme 
and enrolled on the web development course  instead. She notified T that she wished to 
cancel this course on 26 January but T wouldnt allow her to do so as they said shed 
already accessed  the material and also because they said she was out of time as shed 
received the registration email on 11 January and only had 14 days in which to withdraw. 
And, as T wouldnt allow her to cancel, Mr R wasnt allowed to cancel  the finance agreement  
that funded the training  either.
Mr R also complained on behalf of his daughter that T had breached its contract. He said 
they hadnt taken into account  his daughters condition and that the course was not 
satisfactory. He also said it was never  mentioned to him that the course would only be 
available for 12 months even though  he was paying  for it over three years:  so he thought the 
deal had also been misrepresented to him. He complained to Omni about  all of these issues.  
He said that, as the provider of credit, they were  jointly responsible.
Omni rejected Mr Rs complaint. They said T hadnt been made aware of his daughters  
condition and couldnt have been  expected  to do anything  about it. They  couldnt  accept his 
cancellation of the agreement as it had been made after his daughter had accessed the 
course and completed  several units.  They went on to explain that the terms and conditions 
stipulated that once a course had been  accessed  it couldnt be cancelled.  And they 
disagreed that the course had been misrepresented as they said the terms and conditions 
stated the course  would be available for 12 months.  
But Mr R was dissatisfied with Omnis  response  so he referred his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator explained that for there to be a valid claim, that the agreement with the 
supplier had been breached or misrepresented, there would need to be a relationship  
between the debtor (Mr Rs daughter  who remained liable for the course),  the creditor  
(Omni) and the supplier  (T). But as Mr R had formed the finance arrangement with Omni, 
there was no agreement between it and Mr Rs daughter. So she didnt  think  Mr R could  
raise a claim  under section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974) (section 75) for any complaint 
the course was not of satisfactory  quality or claim that T hadnt accommodated his 
daughters condition. Similarly, she thought any claim  that the length of the course had been 
misrepresented to Mr R could not be made  under section 75.
Ref: DRN87434042But she did think it was reasonable to consider whether Mr R could  cancel his own finance  
arrangement. So she thought about  this. She agreed that his daughter had tried to cancel 
within 14 days as she noted  she registered  her interest on 13 January and cancelled  on 26 
January. But she explained that the terms of the contract said that the course couldnt be 
cancelled once itd been accessed and, as it was clear Mr Rs daughter  had accessed  the 
course and completed  at least  one module, she wouldnt be able to cancel.
She considered whether T had told her shed lose her right to terminate if she accessed the 
course and thought they hadnt. But she went on to explain  that, if this were the case, she 
needed to consider what Mr Rs daughter was likely to have done if she was told shed lose 
her rights to cancel if she accessed  the course. And, as she thought  it was most likely she 
wouldve accessed it anyway, she didnt think there  was any reason to suggest Mr R should 
be allowed to cancel  the credit agreement that related to his daughters  course.
But Mr R disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion and I know that will disappoint Mr R. So please let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit  as is 
the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. 
This section  of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, a finance 
provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made  by the 
supplier. 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
But for the creditor, Omni in this case,  to have that liability it needs to have a relationship 
with the supplier of the goods  through the debtor. And here that relationship  doesnt  exist as 
its Mr Rs daughter who is responsible  for paying for the course,  not Mr R.
Ref: DRN87434043So, Mr R cant  succeed in a section 75 claim to Omni about the unsatisfactory  nature of the 
course; the accommodations made  for his daughters condition  or not being  informed about 
how long the course  was available  for. 
cancellation
The investigator provided a comprehensive response to this in the view that was issued in 
January. I agree  entirely  with what she said and I dont  wish to repeat it in detail but I will 
summarise my view of the findings:
I think Mr Rs daughter  was within the 14 day time limit in which  she could cancel the 
agreement. She registered an interest in the web development  course on 13 January 
and cancelled on 26 January
But the terms explain that if the course  was accessed it couldnt be cancelled and 
Ive seen that Mr Rs daughter did access the course and complete some units. 
T had an obligation to explain  to Mr Rs daughter that if she accessed the course 
shed no longer have rights  to cancel. But they didnt
In that case we need to consider what impact that mistake  had on Mr Rs daughter.  
But Im also satisfied  that she would most likely have accessed the course anyway as 
her reason for cancelling was that she felt the course wasnt  rigorous enough and 
that would  only have come to light when shed started it. She appeared not to have 
expressed any doubts about  the course  before  this point
So overall, whilst I understand that this has been a frustrating and lengthy  process  for Mr R, I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest  Omni  need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8743404