K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Swinton Group  Ltd allowed a breakdown insurance policy  to be taken 
out in his name without his permission.
background
During a telephone call in October 2015,  a breakdown policy  was taken  out in Mr Ts name. 
He says he found out about the policy  in April 2016  and tried to cancel it. As a result of 
paying the premiums  for the policy, the bank account they were  taken from fell into default.
Mr T complained in November 2017  saying that the policy  was set up without his knowledge 
by a member of staff he knew, who did so to obtain commission. Swinton looked  into his 
complaint and issued a final response 30 November 2018.  It provided a copy  of telephone 
calls that had taken  place to set up the policy and said it had found  no evidence  that Mr T 
hadnt wanted the breakdown policy. It said it didnt think  it had done anything  wrong, but 
would be happy  to co-operate with any fraud investigation by his bank  or the police. 
Mr T didnt  agree, so he referred his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators  looked  into 
it. She said shed found no evidence to suggest the policy had been set up fraudulently. She 
based that on the sales calls she listened  to and some shed had with Mr T herself, as well 
as the personal  data that was given  to Swinton during the calls with it. 
Mr T was unhappy with our adjudicators findings. He said he was very concerned that the 
premiums for this policy had led to his bank registering a default against him. As there  was 
no agreement,  Mr Ts complaint was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr W, but I agree with the adjudicator  broadly for the same reasons. 
Ive listened to the call during which the cover was set up. Theres no indication  that the 
agent involved knew Mr T in anything other than a customer / supplier relationship. The 
agent gave Mr T lots of options some more expensive, some cheaper,  and allowed him to 
select the options he wanted.  He explained  that the policy  ran on a monthly  basis and could 
be cancelled  at any time. Mr T chose to pay for the policy monthly  by direct debit and gave 
his sort code  and account number for payments to start in January 2016 as the first three 
months were  free. 
If Mr T hadnt  wanted the policy  and the premiums  were  causing  him difficulty with his bank, 
he was free to cancel  it at any time. I cant comment  at this stage on whether the default was 
registered fairly or not by his bank as Im solely dealing with Mr Ts complaint about Swinton. 
If Mr T wants to complain  about his complaint being defaulted, hed need to raise  that with 
his bank in the first instance. If the bank is unable to resolve matters to his satisfaction, he 
may be able to refer that to us if he wishes. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen  from Mr T and Swinton, I cant  see that Swinton has 
acted incorrectly. It set up the policy in good faith and Mr T was able he could cancel it at 
any time. I note that Swinton has offered to co-operate with any fraud  investigation by his 
bank and / or the police.
Ref: DRN86712092my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8671209