K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
fee-paying Premier bank  account. They say that Mr B was mis-led into upgrading to a 
Premier account to keep  or obtain a mortgage.  
background
Mr B held a number of accounts with Barclays since 1989. Sometime in the late nineties, 
one of Mr Bs accounts was upgraded to a Premier account. Mr B moved  house  at the time 
and so the account was transferred to a branch closer to this new house  and remained as 
a Premier account until 2007.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the Premier account  had 
been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Where 
evidence is incomplete  and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B say that the Premier  account  was mis-sold because  Barclays  led Mr B to 
believe that if he didnt  have a Premier account, he wouldnt be able to keep or obtain  a 
mortgage. And Mr B has provided evidence that he took out a mortgage in December 1998. 
Ive therefore  considered  what Mr and Mrs B have said in light of the evidence  that is 
available.
Unfortunately, because of how long ago the sale took place, there  is very limited  information 
available from the time about what mayve been  discussed and even what  the benefits of the 
Premier account were  at the time. 
Barclays only have bank  statements going back to 1998, and the first Premier account fee 
was applied to the account in December 1998.  So I think its likely that the Premier  account 
was sold around  the same time as the mortgage  Mr B took out at the time. 
But to find that the account was mis-sold, I need to be satisfied that its more  likely than not 
that Mr B was wrongly told that he had to upgrade to get his mortgage approved. However,  
having weighed  everything up Im not satisfied that is necessarily  the case.
The reason  I say this is because, although the Premier account looks  to have been sold 
around the same time as the mortgage, I think its just as likely that Mr B agreed to upgrade 
his account because of the benefits  it offered. 
Ref: DRN85667692Mr B had a number of accounts with Barclays for a number of years  prior to the Premier 
account sale. Mr B had previously taken  out a mortgage with Barclays  without having  to 
have a Premier account. And he was able to obtain a large agreed overdraft limit on his 
account before his account was upgraded. So I think he was aware in late 1998 that having 
a packaged account was optional and that he didnt  have to have one to obtain borrowing.
One of the main features  of the Premier account  was that it provided a dedicated 
relationship manager and an executive  banking team. Mr B says that he didnt need a 
dedicated banking  manager as he knew the staff very well and was able to carry out all of 
his banking using  the branch staff. But Mr B says that he was told that it was now company 
policy that he required a Premier account.  Therefore, I think  its just as likely that Mr B either  
required the use of a Premier relationship  manger  and an executive banking  team,  or due to 
the volume and frequency of his transactions, he was required to pay a monthly fee to 
continue using such a service. 
I also note that the mortgage Mr B took out was applied for using the premier banking  
service. And I understand that the Premier banking mortgage team could arrange bespoke 
and unusual mortgages and could get mortgage  applications approved and processed 
quicker than mortgages  applied  for outside  of the Premier banking team. Therefore, I think 
its just as likely that Mr B agreed  to a £10 monthly fee so that he could benefit from the 
Premier mortgage team.
Overall I am not persuaded that Mr B was mis-led  into thinking that he had no choice other  
than to upgrade  his account to apply  for a mortgage.  I think it is more likely  that, due to Mr 
Bs circumstances  and business needs  at the time,  the Premier account benefits and service 
was something that he could have benefited  from.
Because of this, I dont think the Premier account  was mis-sold and therefore I dont think  it 
would be appropriate  to require Barclays to refund Mr and Mrs B the Premier  account fees.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8566769