K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc didnt do enough to help them 
when they fell victim to a scam.
background
In December 2017 Mrs and Mr C found a caravan they wanted to rent. To pay for the 
caravan, Mrs C made payments of £50 on 14 December  and £50 on 20 December from her 
sole account, and then a final payment of £220 on 23 December from Mrs and Mr Cs joint 
account - although  this didnt show on their account  statements until 27 December. 
On 27 December 2017, having  seen  some concerning comments online, Mrs and Mr C 
realised that theyd actually made the payments to a scammer. Mrs and Mr C contacted their 
bank, NatWest, that day to tell them  what had happened, and to see if there was anything 
they could do to help. NatWest contacted the scammers bank straight away to see if any of 
Mrs and Mr Cs money  could  be retrieved,  but unfortunately the receiving  bank confirmed 
that no money remained from Mrs and Mr Cs transactions.
Mrs and Mr C were unhappy  with how NatWest handled things, specifically, Mrs C has said 
NatWest was rude to her on the phone and told her it would  update her within 5 days  but 
failed to do so. So they referred their complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  at what  
had happened, he explained  to Mrs and Mr C that he felt NatWest had done all they could to 
try and recover their money, and while he acknowledged that NatWest  didnt  update Mrs C 
when it said it would,  he didnt think NatWest had been rude or unprofessional when it spoke 
to her, so he didnt  think it needed to do anything more.
Mrs and Mr C disagreed  with our adjudicator, so their complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to 
leave Mrs and Mr Cs accounts.  And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover  funds 
from the beneficiary bank.  So I dont think I can fairly say that NatWest should reimburse Mrs 
and Mr C with the £320  they have unfortunately lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.   When Mrs and Mr C made the payments, they didnt 
know they were dealing with a scammer, so they sent the money  in good faith. This means  
Ref: DRN85831202that  at the time  they wanted the payments to go ahead and authorised  them to be made. 
And I have  taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and   
regulated firms  like NatWest  are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mrs and Mr C when they made  the payments totalling £320, or whether it should  have 
done more than it did. 
But having  thought carefully about  this, I dont  think there was anything  unusual about the 
payments that would have suggested  to NatWest that Mrs and Mr C were being  scammed. 
The amount  and type of the payments that Mrs and Mr C made werent particularly out of 
character for them  they regularly made  faster payments out of their accounts  for similar or 
higher amounts. And having reviewed Mrs and Mr Cs account activity  in the months leading 
up to the transactions I dont think any of the payments they made to the scammer were 
sufficiently suspicious to indicate to NatWest that they werent  legitimate.  So in the 
Ref: DRN85831203circumstances, I dont  think  NatWest  did anything wrong by following the instructions  Mrs 
and Mr C gave and sending the money.
And when  Mrs and Mr C told NatWest that they had been scammed,  it acted quickly, 
contacting the scammers bank straightaway  to see if any of Mr and Mrs Cs money was still 
in the receiving account and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, the receiving bank  confirmed 
that all of Mr and Mrs Cs money had gone.
Its unfortunate that Mrs and Mr C have  lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  
will have been hugely upsetting for them. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly 
say that NatWest should have done more to prevent Mrs and Mr C losing their money. I cant 
hold NatWest responsible for Mrs and Mr C having  fallen victim to a scam, and I think it did 
all it could to help them once it knew  what  had happened. So I dont think  it would be fair to 
ask NatWest to compensate Mrs and Mr C for their loss. I acknowledge that NatWest  may 
not have updated Mr and Mrs C as quickly as it said it would, but overall, I think  it acted 
politely and professionally  in how it dealt  with what happened here. So I also dont think that 
NatWest needs  to pay any compensation to Mrs and Mr C for any trouble and upset caused 
to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8583120