K821x#15complaint
Mrs O thinks Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) has unfairly rejected her claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
background
I issued a provisional decision on 5 November 2019.  A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  As my final decision will be published on our 
website, Ive amended  my provisional decision by replacing the name of the business that 
supplied the solar panel system with [Business 1].
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I think  
Mrs Os complaint should be upheld and what I think Ikano should do to put things  right.
Mrs Os representative has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision and says it 
has nothing to add.
Ikano says it doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Ive summarised  and addressed its 
reply below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano says its unfair that the remedy I proposed in my provisional decision doesnt 
take into account the lifetime benefits of the solar panel system. It says: In effect, the 
customer will be effectively be profiting  from their installation  for the foreseeable 
future. And it says it doesnt see how this is a fair and reasonable outcome for both 
parties.
Ikano says that although the [marketing] material clearly states Self-funding  and 
Never spend a penny, there are no timescales attached to those.
Ikano says the flyers claim that the loans can be serviced  in full by the subsidies is 
actually true because  of the lifetime benefits  of the solar panel system.
I shall address the second and third points  first and together.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the flyer says, Never spend  a penny. And, below, 
Ive transcribed,  as I did in my provisional decision, exactly what the flyer says about the 
loans being serviced in full by the subsidies:
In combination, finance companies are offering loans for the systems which  can be 
serviced in full by the subsidies  meaning you are never out of pocket!
Save the environment and make thousands of pounds!  (Emphasis  added)
The word  never means at no time,  not ever. Never is the timescale  attached to these 
claims, which are, as I said in my provisional  decision, unambiguous.
The words  Ive emphasised above clarify  exactly whats  meant by loans for the 
systemscan be serviced in full by the subsidies. If the consumer  is never [at no time, not 
ever] out of pocket, it must mean the subsidies cover the loan payments in full, when they 
Ref: DRN85291082are due and payable  otherwise the consumer is out of pocket, for a time at least.  The 
words Ive emphasised  above mean  Ikanos  submission that it could or should be read,  
loans for the systemscan be serviced  in full by the lifetime subsidies of the system, is 
untenable.
That said,  in my provisional decision, I made  it clear that Mrs O may not necessarily have 
seen the flyer. And I said Mrs Os testimony  alone,  in context and considering  her 
circumstances, was enough for me to uphold  her complaint. Ikano  hasnt commented  on this 
at all.
All things  considered, I remain of the opinion  that Mrs O was told the solar panel system 
would pay for itself over the term of the loan, and thats why she agreed to it.
The aim of the remedy I proposed, which Ikano thinks is unfair, was to put Mrs O in the 
position shed  be in now if what she was told was true: her feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and 
the savings generated by the system  would be enough to cover  her loan payments over the 
term of the loan, and then shed have the benefits  of the solar panel system after the loan 
was repaid.
Usually, the remedy for misrepresentation is rescission  the contract  is cancelled  and 
unwound  and this is what Mrs O initially wanted.
If Id prescribed this remedy,  Ikano  would have had to pay to remove  the solar  panel system 
(and repair any damage), cancel the contract, refund any loan payments Mrs O has made 
with simple interest at a rate of 8% per year (though Id have made  some  allowance  for the 
benefits shes received),  and remove any reference to the loan from the relevant credit 
reference agencies.  As Mrs Os complaint wasnt about the solar panel  system but rather  
that she was told it would be self-funding, I didnt think  this was necessary. I still dont. The 
remedy I outlined in my provisional  decision ensures Mrs O doesnt lose out because of the 
misrepresentation. And it means Ikano doesnt  incur the significant cost of removing  the 
system and refunding everything Mrs Os paid. Im therefore satisfied it is the fairest and 
most reasonable outcome  for all concerned.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Os 
complaint against  Ikano  Bank AB (publ). Ikano  Bank  AN (publ)  should:
1.let Mrs O keep  the solar panel system;
2.assume that the total achievable  benefit of the system is £7,204.53;
3.refund  the difference between the amount Mrs O has paid each month and the 
amount she would have paid each  month  if the total amount payable  over the term of 
the loan, including interest, had been the same as the total achievable benefit over 
the same  period;
4.add simple interest (at 8% per year)  to each overpayment from the date of the 
overpayment until the date Mrs O receives her refund; 
5.adjust the amount  outstanding on Mrs Os loan so that the amount she owes  now is 
the same  as it would  have been  if the total amount payable over the term of the loan,  
including interest, had been  the same as the total achievable benefit, but keep her 
monthly contractual payments  the same as they are now;
6.pay Mrs O £100  for the trouble and upset  caused.
Ref: DRN85291083 If Ikano thinks its required by HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income  tax from 
this interest payment, it should  tell Mrs O how much  its deducted. It should also give her a 
certificate showing how much its deducted  if she asks for one so that she can claim it back 
from HMRC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85291084my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs O thinks  Ikano Bank AB (publ)  (Ikano)  has unfairly rejected her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
background
In 2015, Mrs O entered into a contract with a company called [Business 1] for it to supply and install  a 
solar photovoltaic (solar  panel) system on her roof. She borrowed £7,670 from Ikano to pay for it.
In 2016, Mrs O made a claim  to Ikano under section 75 of the CCA. She says the benefits of the solar 
panel system were misrepresented by [Business  1]. Specifically, she says the salesman told her the 
loan payments would be off-set by her feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and the savings generated by the 
system, so shed only have to pay a £100  deposit. But after the system was installed and working, 
Mrs O realised this wasnt  the case and her monthly outgoings had increased.
Initially, Ikano said it didnt think  [Business  1] had misrepresented the benefits of the system. It said 
the point of sale documents show that the system would  cost more  than the income and savings over 
the term of the loan.  But it agreed  that the savings have been lower  than estimated, and offered Mrs 
O £750  as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Ikanos response,  Mrs O referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended  Mrs Os complaint should  
be upheld. He concluded  that [Business 1] had misrepresented the benefits of the system, and this 
misrepresentation induced Mrs O to enter into the contract with [Business 1]. To put things right, our 
investigator recommended  Ikano:
1.allow  Mrs O to keep the solar panel system;
2.work out the potential savings Mrs O will make and the income shell get from the solar panel 
system over the 10 year term of the loan and adjust the loan so that Mrs O pays  no more  than 
that;
3.pay simple interest (at 8% per year) on any extra  Mrs O has paid from the date of each 
payment until she gets her money  back, deducting income tax if required by law;
4.pay Mrs O £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
As theres  more than one way to adjust the loan,  our investigator recommended Ikano  give Mrs O a 
choice between:
(A)using all her payments to date to reduce  the loan, and keeping  her scheduled monthly 
payments the same  so that the revised loan amount is repaid early;
(B)using all her payments to date to reduce  the loan, and reducing her scheduled monthly 
payments so that the loan term stays the same;
(C)receiving a refund  of the extra shes paid so far, which would be the difference between the 
amount shes  paid each month and the amount  she would have  paid if shed borrowed the 
revised loan amount over 10 years,  and keeping  her scheduled monthly  payments the same 
so that the revised  loan amount is repaid  early;
(D)receiving a refund  of the extra shes paid so far (as in (C) above),  and reducing  her scheduled 
monthly payments so that the loan term stays the same.
Ikano accepted  the investigators recommendation  and offered to do (A).
Mrs O, who is represented, wants it to do (C).
Ref: DRN85291085Ikano says it would be very hard for it to do anything  other than (A) because of system  constraints. 
And, disappointingly,  it now says it disagrees  with the conclusions and recommendations  of the 
investigator.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry  practice at 
the relevant  time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Was Mrs O misled?
Section 75 of the CCA protects  consumers  who buy goods and services on credit.  It says the finance 
provider (Ikano) is liable for any misrepresentation  or breach of contract  by the supplier  ([Business 1]). 
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. This says that any negotiations between Mrs O and [Business 
1], as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by [Business 1] as agent  of Ikano.
Ive carefully considered the available evidence in this case,  which includes  Mrs Os testimony,  the 
paperwork completed  and/or supplied  by [Business 1], and some [Business 1] marketing material. It 
also includes  the findings of a Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel 
when it investigated [Business 1], and a report by Citizens Advice  about  [Business 1].
I agree with our investigator  that it is more  likely than not that Mrs O was told the solar panel  system 
would pay for itself over the term of the loan.
First, Mrs O has been consistent throughout,  and I find her testimony plausible and persuasive. Ive 
seen nothing  which suggests  she had any interest in solar panels before she was cold called by 
[Business 1]. In 2015,  Mrs O was 59 years  old. She told us she had no money to spare and hoped to 
retire soon.  I find it hard to believe she would have borrowed money to pay for solar  panels  unless 
she was told the amount  shed earn and save would match or exceed the amount shed have to pay.
Second, other evidence supports what Mrs O says. A [Business 1] flyer  describes its solar panel 
systems as self funding (sic), in bold, capital letters. In large letters  on the other side of the page, it 
says: Never spend a penny and Subsidies  cover the full cost. It even explains what it means  by 
self funding:
The Feed  in Tariff is a simple scheme which  means when the Sun shines, the Government  
pay you for producing  electricity!
In combination, finance companies are offering loans  for the systems  which can be serviced  
in full by the subsidies  meaning you are never out of pocket!
Save the environment and make  thousands  of pounds!
Ref: DRN85291086I think  this flyer is indicative  of the way [Business  1] presented  solar panels to its customers. And the 
Citizens Advice report and the findings of the RECC  non-compliance panel  are all consistent with 
what Mrs O has told us.
In its most recent submission, Ikano says the flyer Ive referred to above doesnt  explicitly say the 
benefits of the system will cover the cost of the loan over the term of the loan. Ikano  says the benefits  
of the system  will probably  cover the cost of the loan over the life of the system. It says our 
investigator simply assumed  Mrs O believed  the former rather than the latter. And he didnt consider 
the lifetime benefits of the system when he upheld her complaint.
Im surprised and disappointed by this late submission. First,  the words  never  spend a penny and 
you are never out of pocket are unambiguous.  I find it hard to believe Ikano  really thinks  a consumer 
could or should have  taken those words to mean the lifetime benefits of the system may eventually 
exceed the significant sum of money youll pay during the first ten years. In this case, Mrs O is 
already out of pocket. And she will be, increasingly  and significantly, over the term of the loan. 
Second, and more importantly, Mrs Os testimony is unambiguous. In her own words, she says:
We asked [the salesman] about the finance and were told that the monthly loan amount 
would be covered  by the money received  back from the FIT. We did not have the money to 
spare and we would certainly not have agreed a loan if we thought  this would not happen.
For me, Mrs Os testimony alone, in context and in light of her circumstances at the time, is enough  to 
uphold this complaint. To be clear, I have  not said and I do not think Mrs O necessarily saw the flyer 
Ive referred to above. Instead, Ive referred to it, as well as the Citizens  Advice  report and the findings 
of the RECC non-compliance panel, because they tell me something about the way [Business 1] sold 
solar panels  generally. And this evidence is, as Ive explained above,  consistent  with what  Mrs O has 
said. Finally,  the lifetime  benefits of the system are irrelevant. The misrepresentation was that the 
system would  pay for itself over the term of the loan.
I have, of course, looked at the paperwork completed and/or supplied by [Business 1]. I dont think  it 
is very clear, let alone clear enough to overcome the misrepresentation.  A document provided by 
[Business 1] shows the estimated benefits, but it doesnt show the cost for comparison. Whats more,  
in this case, the document is dated 2 February 2015. The loan agreement  shows the monthly cost of 
the loan. But this is dated 7 May 2015, which is more than two months after the solar  panels  were  
installed. To claim, as Ikano initially did, that it should have been clear to Mrs O that shed have to pay 
more than shed save and earn is, in these  circumstances,  unreasonable.
According to [Business 1]s estimate, Mrs O could expect to save  and earn just over £700 in the first 
year, whereas her loan repayments were about £1,200 a year. So she was likely to be out of pocket 
by about £500 in the first year, and every  year for the term of the loan. In short, based on [Business 
1]s own estimate, the solar panels werent self-funding over the term of the loan,  which means it 
misrepresented the benefits  to Mrs O.
I think  Mrs O only agreed to the installation of the solar  panel system  because she was told it would 
pay for itself. If shed know otherwise, I dont think she would have agreed  to it.
Fair compensation
To put things right, our investigator said Ikano should effectively make the solar  panel  system 
self-funding.  He explained  how Ikano could  work out the total achievable benefit  of the system  over 
the term of the loan,  and what underlying assumptions it should make.  As neither  Ikano nor Mrs O 
has queried  the fairness or accuracy of those underlying assumptions, I dont think its necessary to 
repeat the rationale for each. Suffice it to say that I too think theyre fair. Ive summarised them  below.
The system generated 3,087.12 kWh in year one.
Ikano  should assume the efficiency of the system  will reduce by 0.5% each  year.
Ref: DRN85291087Ikano  should use a FIT rate of 13.88p/kWh for generated  electricity and 4.77p/kWh for 
exported electricity.
Ikano  should use a unit rate of 12.77p to work  out how much Mrs O will save by using  the 
electricity generated.
Ikano  should assume that Mrs O will use 37% of the energy generated by the system.
To work  out how much  FIT rates may increase  over time, Ikano  should assume a retail price 
index (RPI) rate of 2.5%. And it should assume electricity prices will increase by 4% per year.
Ikano has worked out that the total achievable benefit of the system over the term of the loan will be 
£7,805.20. I dont  think  this is quite right.
Ikano has sent us a breakdown which  shows how it has calculated this number. And it looks like Ikano  
has assumed  Mrs O will use 50% of the energy generated by the system instead of 37%. When I 
adjust its calculations  accordingly, the total achievable benefit of the system  over the term of the loan 
is £7,204.53.
Ikano says Mrs O has paid £4,883.83 so far. After it accepted  the investigators  recommendation and 
before it changed its mind,  it said it wanted her to continue to pay £99.67 per month (her contractual  
monthly payment) until she has paid a sum equal to the total achievable benefit.  It said it would then 
write-off what  was left. This is option (A) above.
Mrs O wants  Ikano to work out how much  shed have paid each month  if the total payable  over the 
term of the loan, including interest, had been the same as the total achievable benefit over the term of 
the loan. She wants it to refund the extra shes paid each  month so far (with  simple interest). But 
shes willing to continue making  her current monthly payments so that shell  pay a sum equal to the 
total achievable benefit before the end of her loan term.
Ikano said the outcome will be the same either way, and it would  be very hard for it to do anything  
other than option (A). But the outcome wont be the same either  way. And Mrs O was told the system 
would pay for itself over the term of the loan and it doesnt. I think its only fair that she now gets to 
choose which  of the four options works best for her. And Ikano will have to find a way to make it work.
Finally, our investigator recommended Ikano pay Mrs O £100 for the trouble and upset  caused. It 
agreed to do so, and I think thats a fair amount in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that this complaint should be upheld. So unless the comments and 
evidence I get by 19 November 2019 change my mind, I will tell Ikano  Bank AB (publ)  to:
7.let Mrs O keep the solar panel system;
8.assume that the total achievable benefit of the system  is £7,204.53;
9.refund the difference between  the amount  Mrs O has paid each month and the amount  she 
would have  paid each month if the total amount  payable over the term of the loan, including  
interest, had been the same as the total achievable benefit  over the same period;
10.add simple interest (at 8% per year)  to each overpayment from the date of the overpayment  
until the date Mrs O receives her refund;
11.adjust  the amount  outstanding  on Mrs Os loan so that the amount she owes now is the same 
as it would have been if the total amount payable  over the term of the loan, including interest,  
had been the same as the total achievable benefit, but keep her monthly contractual  
payments the same  as they are now;
12.pay Mrs O £100  for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN85291088 If Ikano  thinks its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from this 
interest payment,  it should  tell Mrs O how much  its deducted. It should also give her a certificate 
showing how much its deducted if she asks for one so that she can claim it back  from HMRC.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529108