K820x#14complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the way that (the company  now known as) Fairmead Insurance  Limited  
dealt with her home insurance claim for water damage and with the settlement offered to her 
in respect of the kitchen.
background
On 3 October 2018 Ms L returned to her home after a couple  of days  in hospital to find her 
home flooded due to a leak from the bathroom. The electricity had shorted. She had no gas 
supply. She contacted Fairmead to make  a claim but as she didnt  have home emergency 
cover it wasnt  able to provide her with an emergency contractor to repair  the leak. The 
claims handler registered the claim and made  arrangements  to appoint a loss adjuster on an 
emergency basis. But she had to make her own arrangements to get the leak fixed. In the 
meantime she stayed  with friends.  She was very upset  at the way she was spoken to and 
dealt with in this initial call. The loss adjuster wasnt able to come out until 8 October.
Fairmead appointed contractors  to scope the works  but there  were  delays and poor 
communication between  the loss adjusters and the contractors.  Eventually Ms L agreed to 
accept a cash settlement,  which was paid to her in January 2019. Fairmead agreed that the 
service was not up to the level it would expect. It also apologised that the initial claims 
handler didnt  show empathy.  It paid her £150 compensation.
Ms L thought the payment wasnt sufficient and didnt reflect  the distress she had been 
caused, as a vulnerable person. She also said the schedule  of works didnt break down the 
settlement so she didnt  know  if shed received  enough. In particular she said that only two 
kitchen units were  damaged and shed only been offered payment for those two units. She 
believed that Fairmead  should pay her 50% of the value of the remaining undamaged units. 
Fairmead confirmed that its contractors  said they could source replacement units that 
matched, but only they would only be able to deal with the company in question as it only did 
business with traders. The contractors were  prepared  to order  and fit new bespoke kitchen 
units that would match but only if Ms L were to return the cash settlement for those units.  
She wasnt prepared  to do so and felt that Fairmead  should have to prove that its contractors  
could match the units.
On review by our investigator  she thought  the payment of compensation was fair to reflect  
the inadequacies of service, She advised  Ms L that the contractors couldnt  proceed to 
obtain new units without  Ms L returning  the cash sum paid for those units. If the new units so 
obtained didnt  match then she could raise that as a new issue with Fairmead.    
Ms L said the outstanding issue for her was the 50% payment  for the remaining kitchen units 
 she had accepted the settlement  on the basis that she could refer the issue  to this service.  
Yet the investigator was saying the issue couldnt  be investigated further  because  shed 
accepted the cash  settlement.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85973182initial call
Ms L says her initial  call was upsetting- the claims handler didnt appreciate that she was a 
vulnerable person and left her to deal with the immediate  emergency herself having just 
come out of hospital.
The claims handler did appear to be unsympathetic. Ms L didnt have home emergency 
cover so they couldnt offer her the immediate  services  of a contractor to repair  the leak. It 
was right to say that this would have been  her responsibility but the claims handler could 
have been more sympathetic. Ultimately Fairmead  did have to take account of the needs of 
a vulnerable consumer but it also had to consider what those needs were and whether Ms L 
was able to appoint a contractor herself. It couldnt offer her emergency cover  when she 
didnt have it. Fortunately Ms L was able to do appoint a contractor to fix the leak.  The claims 
handler agreed to appoint  loss adjusters on an emergency basis but they werent able to 
come out for a few days.
But I do think Fairmead could have been  more  helpful and sympathetic initially. Fairmead 
agreed with this and has fed back to that claims handlers manager. But in part the 
compensation paid of £150 reflects that, and I think thats reasonable.
handling of the claim
Fairmead has agreed that the handling  of the claim was below its expected standard  of 
service. In particular there were  communication issues  between the contractors and the loss 
adjusters which  caused  delay  in the handling  of the claim. Eventually Ms L was offered a 
cash settlement, which she accepted in January 2019 (save for the issues concerning  
kitchen units). 
An escape  of water claim can take some time to resolve, and the Christmas period did 
intervene here. But I agree that there was an issue over the difficulties in communication 
between the loss adjusters and the contractors which did cause some delays. Nevertheless 
in considering the sort of awards we have  made  in similar cases I do think  the £150  paid 
here was reasonable.
scope of works
Ms L has pointed out that as the scope of works didnt include a breakdown item by item she 
couldnt say what  the cost of each item was. She also says it didnt include certain  items like 
the wine rack and that it included the fitting of gas appliances which  she doesnt have, and 
not electrical appliances.
Fairmead says the comparable cost of fitting  electrical appliances was the same. The wine 
rack was in fact included  and in any event Ms L accepted the cash settlement subject to the 
issue over the kitchen units. Insurers frequently wont provide their contractors rates as this 
is regarded as commercially confidential. Ive noted  that it did provide a breakdown of the 
cost of the kitchen  units. I think thats  reasonable.
failure to offer payment  for undamaged kitchen units
Ms L has pointed out that her kitchen is quite  old and so she doubts that the replacement 
units can be matched. She doesnt  believe Fairmead has been able to prove this and she 
believes its contractors are no longer in business  On  the other  hand  Fairmead  says its 
Ref: DRN85973183contractors are confident  they could match the units  they would use a standard kitchen 
supplier and then refer it to a professional  contractor  they use to match  the colour. That 
contractor would however only deal with trade.  And they could only proceed if Ms L paid the 
money back that shed  received for the kitchen  units. Ms L doesnt want  to do that as shes  
already used the money.
I can understand Ms Ls misgivings. I understand the contractors are still in business  they 
just dont do work for Fairmead any more.  But theyve said they are prepared to do the 
kitchen units in this case. However  I dont see that its going to be possible to say whether or 
not a colour match can be done  without actually manufacturing the units. And as Ms L has 
had the money  for the units the contractors arent prepared to do that without payment. 
Unfortunately the only solution I can see is what has been proposed namely that Ms L return  
the money for the units, then if there isnt a reasonable  match, for Fairmead to consider a 
payment towards  the undamaged units.  As she doesnt want to do that I dont think I can do 
anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8597318