K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains NRAM Limited recorded  incorrect information on his credit file.
background
Mr T had a mortgage with NRAM. 
He applied to remortgage with a building society on two separate  occasions,  once in 2016 
and again in 2017. His application was declined.
He has now discovered  that NRAM had recorded  incorrect information regarding  his 
mortgage.
NRAM doesnt know when this first happened but assumes it was around November 2013.
When Mr T complained to NRAM it offered him £250. Mr T declined this offer.
Mr T has now remortgaged with another bank.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She noted that Mr Ts credit file 
showed 12 late payment markers. She spoke to the building  society  Mr T had tried to 
remortgage with. It wasnt able to give her the exact  reasons why Mr T was declined 
because it no longer holds the file due to the length  of time thats elapsed. However, it did 
tell her it was because his credit  score was too low at the time of applying.  The investigator  
thought this could have  been because of the late payments on his file. She therefore didnt 
feel confident  that she could say the incorrect information supplied  by NRAM was the cause 
of Mr Ts mortgage being declined.
Mr T disagrees. He feels that the inaccurate information  provided  by NRAM was a significant 
contributor to any decision made  on additional credit applications  during this period. He 
notes that as soon  as the incorrect information was removed he was accepted for a 
remortgage application. He thinks the inaccurate information might have caused  
unconscious bias against his application. And that because  he was turned  down  for credit 
this might have caused the late payments as he wasnt  able to borrow  money as cheaply  as 
he would  have been able to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr T but I dont think we can say with confidence that  but for 
NRAMs misreporting  his applications  would have  gone ahead. 
I have seen a credit report dated 31 January  2019 for Mr T which  includes the incorrect 
information from NRAM. Despite this information being included  Mr Ts score is 955 out of 
999 which  the credit reference agency describes as a good score. I therefore dont think  it is 
safe to conclude that NRAM  reporting  that Mr T had borrowed more than he had done  had a 
detrimental effect on his credit  score.  Indeed, as NRAM was reporting that Mr T was making 
the required payments  against the bigger debt it may even have had a positive effect on his 
credit score.
Ref: DRN82248572When Mr T made  his first application to the building society in June 2016 his score was 248 
and when he made his second  application  in June  2017 his score  was 283. At these times 
Mr T had fairly recent late payment markers recorded on his credit file. I think  given the 
later report  which still included the mortgage reporting error shows a very much  higher score 
 it is most likely that Mr Ts low scores in 2016 and 2017 werent caused by the mortgage 
misreporting and were caused  by the late payments. And that this caused his mortgage  
application to be declined.
Mr T has said that he might have been declined a mortgage because  having two mortgages  
recorded against his name might have effected affordability or raised suspicion given he was 
trying to remortgage for a single amount. I understand his point. But the building society  
doesnt have a record of which CRA it is used so we cant  be certain  it even saw the 
mortgage reporting error. And the building society the investigator spoke to told us the 
application was declined because of the low credit  score. We know  the score  was very low 
at the relevant times  and so I think that it is most likely that was the reason. 
I think NRAMs offer was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr T. Therefore for the reasons I have set out above  I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8224857