1complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2007. The policy  was taken 
out when Mrs A applied  for a loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Mrs A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. I explain why below.
HSBC had to explain  to Mrs A that the PPI was optional and get her agreement  to take it. I 
cant say for sure what happened since HSBC doesnt have much  information from the time 
of the sale. Although I dont find that surprising  given how long ago the sale took place.
Instead, HSBCs provided a sample  loan agreement it says is the same or similar  to the one 
Mrs A would have seen around  the time of the sale. To get the PPI Mrs A had to tick a box 
and the agreement asked the customer to sign to confirm theyd decided to take PPI. The 
signature required was separate from the signature required for the credit. I think its likely 
the document Mrs A would have seen  were the same as the sample or similar.
Overall, I think its more  likely than not Mrs A would  have  been aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI policy and that she chose  to take it out. 
Mrs A told us she agreed to the cover but had felt under pressure to do so. I have no doubt  
this represents  her best recollection of the events of the sale.  But this is a subjective area 
and I have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably  conclude  that Mrs A only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
HSBC say the policy was sold with a formal recommendation whilst Mrs A thought that it had 
been added  without one. Because it places a higher test on HSBC whilst  making  no 
difference to the outcome of the complaint,  I will assess the sale as if advice had been  given. 
So, HSBC  needed  to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs A. And it seems  to have 
been right for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time.  I say this 
because Mrs A was eligible for the policy and she wouldnt  have  been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. Mrs As representatives  have  said that Mrs A was self-
employed. And has suggested that this meant Mrs A would have been caught by serious 
exclusions. There are policies that might  have exclusions for the self-employed  that might 
make it difficult  for self-employed consumers to claim for unemployment cover.  But this 
policy did not provide any unemployment cover. It did provide cover  in the event Mrs A was 
Ref: DRN87378252disabled of died and her employment status had no bearing on her ability to make  successful  
claims on those  things.  So this isnt something that made the policy  unsuitable for Mrs A. 
And I think Mrs A would have found the policy useful. I say this because Mrs A told us she 
had no sick pay if she was unable  to work  through  ill health such  that she may have had to 
rely on her modest savings or on her husband  for help.  Ive considered  that the PPI policy 
would have covered the loan repayment for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs A was too ill to 
work. So, as this would have  further protected the modest savings Mrs A had at that time, 
and as it would have reduced  her reliance on her husband, I think  Mrs A would have found 
the policy useful.   
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mrs A or that she 
had a need to keep  costs  down. Whilst I could understand if Mrs A thought  the policy 
expensive now, given  how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs A made a 
successful claim, she could have got back quite a bit more  than she paid for it. 
Mrs A may have got back  only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if HSBC thought about this when  it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs A. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs A 
thought shed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for her. 
Its possible that the information HSBC  gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped her from buying  it.
I realise Mrs A will be disappointed by the outcome.  But on balance,  for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think Mrs A has lost out because of anything  HSBC may have done wrong. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about  that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount  of commission and 
profit share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mrs A any extra interest Mrs A paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mrs A the extra she paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mrs A paid if the loan was paid off early. HSBC  should also pay Mrs A 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN87378253my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8737825