K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a number of packaged 
bank accounts.  Her account history is as follows:
Classic fee free account  opened  in February  2008
Silver  account taken  out in branch in October  2009
Gold account taken  out in branch in February 2010
Platinum account  taken out online in April 2012
Premier account taken out online in December 2012
background
While this complaint has been  with this service Lloyds has refunded  the account fees with 
interest that Mrs W had paid for the Silver account. So we have not looked  into this sale.
Our adjudicators have  looked into this complaint already and they did not think that the Gold, 
Platinum or Premier account was mis-sold. Mrs W did not agree with this and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I note that Mrs W is also unhappy that Lloyds would  not let her downgrade her account  when 
she requested. As Lloyds  have not had an opportunity to investigate  this complaint Mrs W 
would have to direct her complaint about this issue to Lloyds in the first instance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ws complaint. Having carefully  thought about everything Ive been 
provided with, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Gold,  Platinum  and Premier accounts.  Let me 
explain why.
why I dont think the Gold account  was mis-sold.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs W was given  a clear choice in taking  t this 
accounts. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened. In this instance,  Mrs W had held a free 
account prior this sale and therefore  I think that she wouldve known that free accounts  
existed and were available. Mrs W has explained that she was encouraged to take out the 
account as it came  with benefits but has not said she thought  she had to proceed with the 
upgrade if she did not wish to. Overall  I think that Mrs W agreed to upgrade to the Gold 
account knowing she did not have to change  her account if she did not wish to do so.
The Gold  account  was recommended  to Mrs W and therefore Lloyds had to ensure that this 
account was right for her given her circumstance at the time of the sale. At the time that the 
Gold account was taken out the benefits include mobile phone insurance, worldwide travel 
insurance, enhanced breakdown cover and a £100 interest free overdraft facility. Whereas 
the Silver  account  that she already held had European travel insurance,  mobile  phone  
insurance, basic breakdown cover  and a £50 interest free overdraft facility.
Ref: DRN86876772Mrs W has explained that she did not own a mobile  phone, did not drive and did not travel 
abroad. I can see though that Mrs W registered  a phone and made frequent transactions  to 
travel companies. I can also see that she also used  her overdraft. Overall then I think Lloyds 
recommendation was not unreasonable. I accept that she may not have been told everything  
about all of the benefits that the account  came with but I cant  see anything specific  that she 
was not told that wouldve altered her decision to take out the Gold account
why I dont think the Platinum and Premier accounts  were mis-sold
In this instance these account were taken out online by Mrs W herself.  I cant say for certain 
why Mrs W took out the accounts. But there  is not enough for me to say that Lloyds did 
anything specific that meant that Mrs W did not get a clear choice in taking out the accounts. 
I think that its more likely that Mrs W was attracted by something that these accounts  came 
with, and given  that Mrs W took out the accounts  online herself,  it was ultimately  her choice 
as to whether  to upgrade  her account  or not. 
It may have been the case that there were some  features or some of the benefits  that the 
accounts came with that were not fully explained to Mrs W. But I cannot see anything 
specific that Mrs W was not told about,  that I think wouldve altered her decision to take out 
these accounts.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8687677