K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax didnt compensate them  
for distress and inconvenience  at the same  time as it refunded  arrears  charges it had 
charged to their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Halifax. At times in the past theyd  been  in arrears on the 
mortgage and Halifax had charged them arrears  management fees.
Following an intervention by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 2017, 
Halifax agreed to refund  arrears management  fees to its customers.
It wrote to Mr and Mrs M separately. It told each what the total refund was and sent each of 
them a cheque for half the total refund.
Mrs M complained. She said Halifax hadnt provided  a full breakdown of the refunded  
charges. And she said it should compensate them for the upset it had caused by charging 
unlawful fees, causing them financial difficulty.
Halifax explained how the refund had been calculated and set out the fees it applied to. It 
said it didnt think the fees had caused  Mrs M any distress  or shed have complained about 
them at the time.
Mrs M said she was unhappy about the fees when they were charged. She said she felt they 
were too high but didnt know how to argue the point  so didnt complain  and not being able 
to articulate how they felt added to the distress she and Mr M had felt.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following an investigation in 2017, the FCA found that between 2009 and 2016 Halifax  
hadnt always been carrying out its arrears  management activity  in a fair way, so it agreed  to 
refund arrears fees it had charged  over that period.
It wrote to its customers, including Mr and Mrs M, setting out the fees that were to be 
refunded and how the refund was calculated.
In Mr and Mrs Ms case, there  were a series of fees charged over the years, and these  were  
refunded to them. At the time they were  charged, the fees were added to Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance,  which increased the balance  and meant they were  charged more 
mortgage interest, so this interest was also refunded. And finally,  the additional fees and 
interest had led to an increase in their monthly  payments  and the extra  amounts theyd 
paid each month were  also refunded with interest.
Ref: DRN86495272All of this gave a total refund, which was then split in half and paid to Mr and Mrs M 
respectively. The letters they were sent also invited them to contact Halifax if they felt they 
had been caused distress  by the charging of the fees so that Halifax  could  consider  if it felt 
further compensation was appropriate. 
In this case, Halifax didnt think further compensation was appropriate. Thats what  
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about,  and thats  what I have to decide.
Ive considered the evidence and arguments  both parties have provided. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M were caused further distress by the fees themselves.
By their very nature,  the fees were charged at a time when Mr and Mrs M were in arrears  on 
their mortgage. And, as the fees were charged  over several years,  its clear  they were  
having difficulties  for some time.  Being in arrears  on a mortgage  and being faced with the 
risk of losing  a home  is a very stressful and upsetting experience, and Ive no doubt 
Mr and Mrs M found it a very difficult  time.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs M havent  complained about any aspect of Halifaxs collections 
activity or how it treated  them  while they were in arrears. Theyve complained  about  the 
distress they say the fees caused  because they considered them unlawful and too high.  
But I think its more likely  that it was the very fact of being in financial difficulty and facing 
arrears and the risk of repossession that caused  Mr and Mrs Ms distress.  And Ive not seen 
any evidence that the underlying financial difficulties were the fault of Halifax. The fees 
would have been charged at the time. They would have been added  to the mortgage 
balance, and so would  have increased  the overall amount owed. But they werent asked to 
pay the fees upfront at the time,  and they didnt increase the amount of the arrears or the 
immediate shortfall Mr and Mrs M had to make  up. 
The fees did increase the mortgage balance and result  in further interest.  Halifax  has 
refunded in full the extra  costs Mr and Mrs M incurred. Thats  a fair outcome here. As Im not 
persuaded that the fees themselves significantly impacted  an already stressful  situation at 
the time,  and Mr and Mrs M havent complained about the arrears management activity that 
led to the fees being  charged, I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax  to do anything  
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86495273
Ref: DRN8649527