K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained that Gresham Insurance  Company Limited  (Gresham) has 
overcharged them for their home insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs A insured their home  through their mortgage provider, Bank A. Although it was 
Bank A that sold the insurance and whose name was on the policy, it was actually Gresham 
that underwrote  the policy and set the price,  so its responsible for answering this complaint.
Gresham started underwriting  the policy in 2005  when the annual  policy  cost was £309.85. 
By 2010 it had reached £385.97,  but then the cost rose steeply until Mr and Mrs A cancelled  
the policy in 2015 after it had reached  £1,998.12. In reality Mr and Mrs A paid slightly more  
than this, as they paid in monthly  instalments that attached interest.
Mr and Mrs A shopped around  in 2015 and found that they could  get cover  from an 
alternative provider  for less at around  £130,  so they thought they had been overcharged. 
They complained to Gresham about  this, but it didnt think  anything had gone wrong.
Gresham said it had priced  the cost of Mr and Mrs As policy based on the risk of a claim 
that their underwriting model produced.  The reason that their policy was more  expensive 
than average,  was because Mr and Mrs As property was a Category 1 flood  risk  the 
highest level of risk under its model.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  think this was the case and brought their complaint to our service. In 
support of their complaint,  they produced information from the Environment Agency that 
showed they were  at a very  low risk of flooding in any year (less than 1/1000).  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt think Gresham  had treated 
Mr and Mrs A unfairly. They noted that Mr and Mrs A had made  a claim in 2010 that had 
increased their policy cost the following year.  And Gresham had changed its view of the 
flood risk in 2011,  which meant it increased the policy cost. Our investigator noted that 
Gresham had never  actually charged Mr and Mrs A the amount it thought it needed to cover 
the risk of flooding. 
Our investigator thought Gresham had worked out the premium in line with its view of risk at 
the time and was consistent with how it treated all its other  customers. So they didnt think  
Gresham had done anything wrong with how it had treated Mr and Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. They said they hadnt  realised the extent of the increases over 
the years  as they paid monthly, so the level of increase was masked. They  also thought 
Gresham had got the risk of flooding wrong and had incorrectly  noted  the claim from 2010  
was due to flooding, when it was an internal escape of water in their bathroom. As Mr and 
Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for the same  reasons. I know  Mr and Mrs A have been  waiting 
Ref: DRN82770682for an answer for a long time on their complaint and this isnt the one theyve been hoping  
for, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs A have  complained about how much theyve been charged for insurance.  My 
role is to consider  whether they have been treated unfairly by Gresham in the way they have 
been charged for their insurance. But its not my role to set what  I consider to have been a 
fair price for the risk insured. So, for example, if I thought Gresham  had only increased the 
price of the policy because Mr and Mrs A had held it for a number of years  and there was no 
other reason to increase  it, its likely  Id say that wasnt  fair. And, in those  circumstances, Id 
tell Gresham to pay some compensation. But here I think there was a reasonable reason 
why Mr and Mrs As policy costs increased over the years.
Mr and Mrs As policy cost remained  relatively stable between 2005  and 2010,  increasing 
from £309.85 in 2005 to £382.98 in 2007, before  falling to £311.96  the following year and 
increasing again to £385.97 in 2010.  In 2011 the price increased to £504.50,  but I think  this 
is consistent with Mr and Mrs A making  a claim the year before. The claim was small (£782), 
but this will have affected their no claims discount, so I think  the increase in price  is fair. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I can see that Gresham has recorded this claim as an escape  of 
water and not due to external flooding.
In 2012, 2013 and 2014 the price  increased  to £739.23, £1,205.92  and £1,998.12  
respectively. On the face of it these  increases could be unfair  unless Gresham was able to 
give a clear explanation of why they increased so steeply. Gresham  has said it in 2011  it 
changed the way it looked at how it worked out the risk of flooding  to a more accurate model. 
And this meant it thought Mr and Mrs As property was at a high risk of flooding. Gresham  
has provided information from its underwriting systems that shows, between 2011  and 2014,  
it worked out the cost of underwriting the risk was more than twice the price Mr and Mrs A 
actually paid for insurance. And the reason Gresham didnt increase Mr and Mrs As 
premium cost to the actual underwriting cost, was that it capped a consumers policy 
increases to a maximum amount each year.  
I can understand why Mr and Mrs A dont think their property was a high flood risk, 
especially given the Environment Agency report.  But theres no rule in place that says 
insurers have to follow the same models as the Environment Agency  I note that the report 
dealt with the risk of river and sea flooding and didnt consider flooding from surface water or 
rising groundwater.  
Each insurer will work out risks for itself and its not my role to say whether I think Gresham  
worked out its approach to risk properly or for me to say I think  it should have concluded the 
level of risk was different.  Gresham  made  its own assessment of risk and I think it priced 
Mr and Mrs As policy in line with what it felt those risks were. It follows  I dont  think  it 
increased the price  for any unfair or improper  reasons.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs A might not have realised how the cost had increased  
over time, given they might not have noticed  a smaller monthly price increase adding up to a 
larger annual one. But Ive seen that Gresham sent out a renewal notice  every  year that 
gave both the monthly and annual cost. So I think they were given the information they 
needed to see that the policy costs had increased at the time.
Ref: DRN82770683Mr and Mrs A have  provided a quote for an alternative policy that was significantly cheaper 
than the renewal offered by Gresham.  But I dont think its as simple to compare the costs  of 
the two policies to conclude that one is too expensive.  I dont  have full details of the quoted  
policy, for example  it may have different levels of cover,  excess and exclusions to making a 
claim than the Gresham policy. Its also probable that this policy  had a new customer 
discount associated  with it, so its likely this alternative insurer  would have  increased  the cost 
of cover at later renewals  to remove that discount.
In conclusion, I dont  think Gresham has acted unfairly in the way its priced Mr and Mrs As 
policy. I do understand why they feel differently given  the cheaper  insurance theyve found 
elsewhere, but Im not going to tell Gresham to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint against Gresham  Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8277068