K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim following an 
accident in mainland Europe under his motor policy.
background 
Mr H insured his car with AXA which provided cover to drive in Europe.  He was involved in 
an accident and informed AXA and required its help.
He said instead  he had to provide everything for AXA which  was stressful given language 
difficulties. So he complained.
However AXA didnt  deal with his complaint within the required time limit of our rules, so he 
brought his complaint to us.
Ultimately the investigator recommended it should be upheld and said AXA should pay Mr H 
the sum of £700 including compensation for his trouble and upset. Mr H didnt agree, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint along  the lines  the investigator  recommended. Ill now explain why.
Mr H insured his car through  a broker with AXA. It provides the following as regards driving  
in Europe:
This policy provides  the cover described in the schedule  within  the UK.
Your policy also provides  the minimum cover  you need by law to use your car in:
1.any country which is a member of the European  Community.
..
Your policy automatically extends the cover  shown in the schedule to the
countries described  in item 1, and 2 [being EU countries or other countries which 
agree to abide by EU regulations for this purpose] and is extended to the expiry date 
shown in your Certificate of insurance.
Mr Hs certificate  of insurance confirms he has comprehensive cover for both Mr H and his 
wife limited to social domestic  and pleasure  purposes and says the following:
European Cover
This Certificate and the insurance policy  to which it relates is in respect of incidents  
occurring in member Countries of the European  Union.
Mr H was involved in an accident in mainland Europe where it appears he hit another  car in 
the rear. He phoned AXA to report the accident  and make a claim since his car was 
Ref: DRN85853532damaged. It doesnt  appear that Mr H was able to avail of any other help through  any 
separate European breakdown policy, so he was solely reliant with AXA in the UK helping  
him.
And theres  no doubt in my mind  that Mr H found  himself in very stressful  circumstances. 
Thats because his car was damaged, he was stranded abroad and had language difficulties 
since he didnt the speak the language of the country where this accident  happened. 
I dont consider AXA helped him enough and indeed  it appears it required him to do all the 
work with finding  a repairer and liaising  with that repairer as to the extent of the damage to 
his car, plus oddly to communicate with a witness. It also didnt come  back to him when it 
said it would  and Mr H had to do a considerable amount of chasing  AXA in order  to fulfil its 
obligations to him under  the policy. Furthermore  once his car was deemed a total loss, he 
was required to deal with several enquiries with AXAs salvage agents.  This  was because 
Mr H had a cherished number plate on his car.
There was also issues with the market value amount AXA deemed his car to have plus some  
modifications which Mr H wanted  to keep, along with issues over his No Claims Discount 
(NCD)
Against that, I dont  expect AXA to have access to a full list of fluent foreign language 
speaking claims handlers  and approved repairers in every  single  EU country  where a 
policyholder might decide to travel. Its policy is primarily for the UK, which  provides 
additional cover  for the policyholder travelling in Europe. 
Accidents in themselves are both distressing  and grossly inconvenient. That level of distress 
and inconvenience  is obviously  increased  when the accident happens far from home and in 
a different country  where  there are language and consequent communication difficulties. 
AXA didnt cause  this accident though, and therefore whilst I would have expected  its 
processes for accidents occurring outside  the UK to be clearer and more robust for Mr H to 
follow, it remains the accident itself, rather than AXAs  handling of it, which caused a 
substantial amount of the distress and inconvenience.
However with much  chasing  from Mr H, AXA did fulfil its liabilities  under  the policy. It paid 
him the market value  of his car plus - eventually - the £250  payment his policy entitles him to 
for onward travel. It also paid him £158.19 for car accessories. 
This far, AXA has deemed  the accident  was caused  by Mr H since he hit another  car in the 
rear. Mr H has made several enquiries with other entities concerning investigating who 
caused this accident. None of which have helped him yet. However  under Mr Hs policy, it 
says the following:
AXA are entitled  have the right to take over and deal with the defence or settlement 
of any claim in the name of the person making  a claim under this policy.
This is a common clause in virtually  all motor  policies, so I dont find it unusual or unfair. In 
effect it means AXA has the right to decide who caused the accident and act accordingly. 
Neither this service nor I decide who is responsible for causing  accidents, as thats a matter  
for the Courts. We can however look to ensure AXA applies this clause reasonably.  Here  I 
think it has, as ostensibly  Mr H went into the rear of the car in front. There may well be 
extenuating circumstances as to why that happened (via the witness  who Mr H has) but I 
dont consider it unreasonable in these  circumstances for AXA to hold Mr H responsible. As 
Ref: DRN85853533far as Im aware to date there is no claim against Mr Hs policy from any other party to this 
accident. I understand and appreciate Mr H will disagree its a fault claim given his 
comments to the investigator, but its not my role to decide who was responsible for causing 
an accident. 
Mr H had protected No Claims  Discount  (NCD)  and whilst the fact he had a fault accident  
might impact  his insurance  record and subsequent  premium amount, Ive seen  no evidence 
that his NCD didnt remain. 
Mr H also raised  some  issues  about the market valuation of his car, but Ive seen no 
evidence that the eventual market  value AXA put on his car wasnt acceptable to Mr H. 
My role and the role of this service  isnt to fine or punish businesses when things go wrong  
or when  customer service standards are lacking, as thats a matter for the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Regardless of where  this accident happened, Mr H was always  
going to endure  a significant amount of inconvenience, trouble and upset. Ive considered 
the list of expenses Mr H has carefully  laid out and Im of the view most of them are incurred 
with Mr Hs duty to provide the help in the circumstances that AXA required as also detailed 
in his policy, which Mr H has discussed. 
I agree  AXA could have done  much better in its service to Mr H at times, but I dont consider 
it needs to reimburse  him all these expenses. However it does need to pay him some 
compensation for its failings and the distress it caused him.  So I think  the amount of 
compensation suggested by the investigator of £250  is about right. Its what I would have 
suggested given  its of the amount I have  awarded in other similar cases. AXA has already 
paid this amount  to Mr H.
Mr H also told AXA he wanted a part removed from his car once it was ascertained  his car 
was a total loss and for it be returned  to him. AXAs  engineer  agreed  to this. But AXA never 
did anything about  that, so Mr H never got that car part. Mr H said the part cost £1,684.00 
new. However, the part on Mr Hs car wasnt new at the time of the accident.  Therefore at 
the time of the accident it wasnt worth  £1,684.00.  The investigator suggested a figure of 
£450 for it and with no other evidence to the contrary, I consider this a reasonable 
compensation figure for the loss to Mr H of this part. 
Mr H has also complained  that given AXAs treatment of him following his accident  that his 
policy was consequently mis-sold. However this policy was sold by a broker  who is clearly 
identified on the policy document.  Therefore if Mr H remains of the view the policy  was mis-
sold he should direct  a complaint to his broker instead. This decision is merely against AXA. 
I understand and appreciate how strongly  Mr H feels that he was let down by AXA following 
this accident.   And I also understand he will be disappointed with my decision. However I 
consider as AXA has already paid him £250 compensation as suggested by the investigator, 
it should now pay him £450 for the car part which it omitted to have retained for Mr H.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Since it has already  paid Mr H £250, it should  now pay him another £450.
Ref: DRN85853534Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8585353