K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1997. Mr H says Lloyds  Bank PLC, trading as TSB at the time, mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt know he had taken  PPI with his credit card.  But having looked at a copy 
of his signed postal application  form I can see that theres a separate section for PPI. 
Although its not the clearest copy,  I can see Mr H has ticked  the box requesting cover. If he 
hadnt wanted the PPI he could have left the box blank. So I think Mr H was aware that he 
was taking PPI and that he chose to take it out at the time  knowing he didnt have  to. I can 
understand why Mr H doesnt remember  this now - as the sale was over 20 years  ago. 
Ive also got copies of some  of Mr Hs credit card statements and can see a payment for the 
PPI being taken. So if it had been something  Mr H hadnt asked for or been aware of at the 
time I think its likely  he would  have  questioned  Lloyds about this. 
As the policy was sold through a postal application form, I dont think  Lloyds gave Mr H any 
advice to buy the policy (as none  of its representatives would have  spoken  to him). So it 
didnt have to check it was right for him, but it did need to give him enough clear information  
so he could decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing his own employee benefits   and it looks  
like he still wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover  so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong, paying out on top of 
what he would have  received from his employer  and for potentially  longer than he would 
have got his full rate of pay. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN87671792The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8767179