K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the way Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) handled the claim that he made on 
his home  insurance  policy.
Reference to Lloyds also includes its agents  where applicable.
background
Mr J renewed  his home insurance policy in August 2018. According  to the schedule of 
insurance that Lloyds  sent Mr J, hed taken out premier cover. The version of the policy 
booklet that Mr J has (dated March 2018), also says he had premier cover. 
Mr J reported a leak in his bathroom in October 2018, which caused considerable damage to 
his bathroom and kitchen. He made a claim to Lloyds. 
Lloyds asked a contractor for a quote to repair the damaged areas. There  was a delay 
between November and January when  there  was little progress on the claim. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the lack of progress, so he complained. Lloyds responded and 
acknowledged that there had been delays handling  Mr Js claim due to a breakdown  in 
communication. Lloyds  offered Mr J £200  compensation  in respect  of the delays between  
November 2018  and January 2019  in particular.
Lloyds removed Mr Js kitchen ceiling  and wall units around February 2019 and, after further  
inspection, it said the repair  work  could get underway because  there  was no evidence  of an 
ongoing leak. Lloyds  told Mr J that if he wanted all tiles to be replaced, hed have to pay 
50% of the re-tiling costs  for the undamaged area in the bathroom because his policy  didnt 
cover the cost of a full re-tile. 
Mr J complained to Lloyds again, as he said he had no clear idea when the repair  work  
would get underway.  He was also unhappy about the extent of the work Lloyds was willing 
to approve, as he didnt think he should have to make a 50% contribution  towards re-tiling  
the undamaged  area when his policy should  cover that.   
Lloyds said that Mr Js policy,  was a classic home  policy,  which didnt include matching 
sets cover.  That meant, according to Lloyds, it only covered repairing damage  to the 
affected areas, even  if part of a matching set. But Lloyds accepted that there was a delay in 
telling Mr J about the contribution towards re-tiling that it expected him to make  if he wanted 
all of his tiling to be replaced. Lloyds awarded  a further £200 compensation payment and 
invited Mr J to contact  our service if he wasnt happy  with its response. 
Mr J contacted us. He told us that hed suffered considerable  upheaval  as a result of Lloyds 
handing of his claim and the delays he faced. He also thought he shouldnt  have been asked 
to contribute towards the cost of a full re-tile, as he expected that to be covered by his policy. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Lloyds hadnt treated Mr J fairly. 
The investigator noted that Lloyds  said Mr J had classic cover only - which didnt provide 
cover for matching sets- but Mr Js policy documents said he had premier cover. 
And, according to the policy wording that Mr J had, his policy did include matching sets 
cover. The investigator  didnt think that Lloyds had been able to clearly show that Mr J had 
classic cover only and was satisfied  that, on balance, he had a premier policy  including 
Ref: DRN85336902matching sets cover. The investigator recommended that Lloyds pay for a full re-tile  at no 
cost to Mr J. The investigator also asked Lloyds to pay Mr J a further compensation 
payment of £150  in respect of the inconvenience hed suffered due to the way in which  his 
clam was handled.
Mr J accepted the investigators recommendation, but Lloyds didnt. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
Since Mr J complained to our service, Lloyds has completed most of the outstanding  
repairs in his house, excluding the bathroom. Mr J said that hes generally  happy with the 
quality of the work but is still not happy that Lloyds is expecting him to pay towards the costs  
of re-tiling his bathroom and at the overall handling of his claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J doesnt feel that Lloyds handled his claim at all well, both in terms of the extent to 
which it was willing to settle the claim and its general handling of it. Mr J says that hes faced 
considerable upheaval and distress, not least because 18 months after the leak in his 
bathroom, its still in a state  of disrepair. I can appreciate that all of this must have been very 
difficult for Mr J and his family.  
My role is to consider whether Lloyds handled  Mr Js claim fairly in line with the terms of his 
policy. And, having thought about  that, Im not persuaded  that it has. Ill explain why.
All of the documentation  that Mr J sent me says that he had premier  cover with Lloyds. 
And, according to those  documents,  Mr J was insured for loss or damage  caused by 
(amongst other things):
Water escaping from or freezing in any fixed  domestic water or heating  installationSo, Im 
satisfied that damage caused by an escape  of water in Mr Js bathroom is covered by his 
policy. Mr Js policy documents also say that: 
In the event of loss or damage to parts of buildings which  form part of a set of common 
design we will pay for the replacement  or repair of the lost or damaged  item only unless part 
of a pair. We will pay for undamaged parts of a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen and their tiles 
where replacements to the damaged  parts cannot  be matched. 
Mr J says that his damaged bathroom tiles couldnt  be replaced with matching tiles because  
the design had been discontinued. So, given the wording in his policy documents,  I can see 
why he expected Lloyds to re-tile the whole bathroom rather  than just the damaged area. 
But Lloyds doesnt agree that the wording  referred to above reflects  Mr Js policy  terms. 
Whist it accepts  that Mr J has premier cover, it says its under a classic  insurance policy. 
And according to Lloyds,  a classic policy says the following:  we treat each individual item of 
matching sets, suites, fixtures  and fittings  or other articles  of a similar nature, design or 
colour, as a single  item. We will therefore  only pay for the lost or damaged items and not for 
any other items that have not been lost or damaged solely because they form part of the set 
or suite.  
Ref: DRN85336903Ive thought about Lloyds  response and I dont think its fair or reasonable in Mr Js case.
Whilst Lloyds has sent me a copy of Mr Js policy schedule, which shows that he has 
premier level cover,  it hasnt been  able to show me that it sent Mr J the classic policy 
wording to go alongside it. And whilst  I appreciate that, as far as Lloyds  is concerned, the 
classic policy wording is what was meant to be included in Mr Js policy, thats not what 
Lloyds sent him. So, I dont think  Lloyds  has made  it at all clear  to Mr J that, despite,  what  
he thought and what hed been  sent,  his policy was a classic policy that didnt extend  to 
providing matching  sets cover for his bathroom tiles. 
And so it follows that I think it was unfair  for Lloyds to decline the claim for a full bathroom 
re-tile, particularly as Mr Js documents  say that he is covered for that if matching 
replacement tiles cant be found. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to settle  Mr Js 
claim by paying for his bathroom tiles to be replaced in full and any other associated repair 
work.   
Turning now to Mr Js complaint that Lloyds didnt handle the claim well overall. Lloyds 
accepts that it didnt always get things  right and caused delays, so, in that sense theres 
broad agreement between Lloyds and Mr J about  some of what  happened.  Lloyds has 
given Mr J £400 compensation to specifically recognise its delays in the early  stages  of its 
claim handling. And that it didnt tell Mr J early enough that hed be expected to make  a 
contribution towards  re-tiling if he wanted  all tiles to be replaced, so that they matched.
Mr J has described  the impact that the leak and pursuing his insurance claim had on him 
and his family. He explained to me that he didnt have a fully working kitchen for several  
months and had to prepare food in areas where there  was dust. Theyve  also had to put up 
with holes in their bathroom for many months.  
Dealing with any insurance claim can be time-consuming and, at times, stressful.  I can 
appreciate that things  must have been  very difficult for Mr J and his family. But that doesnt 
mean that I think Lloyds  was responsible  for all of the stress and inconvenience  that Mr J 
and his family suffered. 
I say that because, there was always going  to be some element of delay and inconvenience. 
For instance, its likely that the kitchen was going  to be in some state of upheaval before 
Lloyds could repair it, as it first had to ensure  that the damaged areas had properly dried out 
and that there were  no ongoing leaks. And that can take time. 
So, Ive thought about whether Lloyds has done  enough to recognise the impact that its 
handling of the claim  had on Mr J and his family.  
And, whilst I think  Lloyds  has gone some way to recognising the impact,  Im not persuaded 
that it has fully recognised  it. Lloyds has been unwilling to authorise  a full re-tile of Mr Js 
bathroom, when  it clearly should have  agreed to pay for this. And thats led to Mr Js 
bathroom being in a state of disrepair for much longer than was necessary, which has  
caused Mr J and his family added inconvenience. And I think Lloyds now needs to pay Mr J 
another £150 compensation  on top of the £400  compensation  its already paid him for the 
additional distress  and inconvenience  this caused him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Society of Lloyds  to:
Ref: DRN85336904Settle Mr Js claim for the damage  in his bathroom by replacing or paying  for the 
replacement of all of the tiling thats  part of a matching set along with any associated  
repair work;
Pay an additional  £150 compensation to Mr J (on top of the £400  already paid)  in 
respect of the added distress and inconvenience  that he suffered as a result of 
Lloyds delay in settling the claim for the bathroom repairs fairly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  by 24 May 2020
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8533690