K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mr S had a British Gas policy that covered boiler repairs and an annual service.  British Gas 
did a first visit and an annual service on 4 October  2017. 
On 29 December 2017, Mr Ss wife was recovering from a heat attack and their boiler 
stopped working.  British  Gas visited twice that day. On the second of those visits it replaced 
the thermocouple. Mr S complained that British Gas shouldve replaced it in October 2017.
In its final response letter,  British Gas offered to replace the thermocouple  on future annual 
services. It also said it was sending a payment of £50.00 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that 
British Gas had been  fair and reasonable with the compensation already paid and also 
replacing the thermocouple on the annual service, which  was outside of the terms and 
conditions. 
 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
British Gas hasnt  attempted to explain or justify the lack of preventive  maintenance.
It failed to maintain  the boiler in meaningful  working  condition.
British Gas allowed  the boiler to fail in order to coerce Mr S and his wife into taking a 
new boiler.
They spent an uncomfortable fourteen or fifteen hours  in low temperatures  without 
domestic hot water. 
British Gas didnt put the boiler  in working  condition, mid-morning  on 29 December 
2017. It failed  within the hour, necessitating a return visit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr S and British Gas have each  said, his boiler was an older one. I have no 
reason to doubt his statement that for some years a local engineer serviced the boiler and 
brought with him a superior type of thermocouple. He didnt  recommend  a new boiler.
From late September  2017 Mr S took out his British Gas policy.
Ref: DRN82492032The policy provided  an annual service visit to check the boiler was working safely. I dont 
consider that was any guarantee  that there wouldnt later be a breakdown  especially of an 
older boiler.  
The policy terms said that British  Gas would do repairs. That was defined as follows:
repair(s)/repairing/repaired
- to fix your boiler, appliance or system  following an individual  fault or breakdown
I consider that this meant  the policy covered repairs to fix a boiler after a fault or breakdown. 
I dont consider that it covered repairs to prevent a fault or breakdown  however prudent  or 
however inexpensive such repairs might be. 
On 4 October 2017 British Gas did a first visit and annual service.  I have no reason to doubt 
Mr Ss recollection that he asked  for a new thermocouple  although that request isnt 
recorded in the British  Gas records.
The records  include  the following:
ADVISED RSL/EFFICEINCY,  DECLINE HSA
From that, I find that British Gas had said the boiler  was on a reduced service list so that 
not all spare  parts were available. And Mr S had declined an appointment with a heating 
sales adviser. So I accept  that British Gas had suggested he should  get a new boiler. And 
British Gas didnt  fit a thermocouple. 
But I find that British  Gas left the boiler  working. So I dont  see any requirement  for British 
Gas to replace  the thermocouple.  I dont  share  Mr Ss view that British Gas declined  to 
replace that part because  it wanted to sell him a new boiler.
About twelve  weeks went by before the boiler  unfortunately broke down. I dont find that 
British Gas was responsible for failing to take steps  to prevent that breakdown.  And I find 
that  under  the policy terms - British Gas had a reasonable time to fix it. In the meantime 
the breakdown  left Mr S and his wife with a cold house at an already difficult  time for them.
British Gas sent an engineer the same  day. I have no reason to doubt Mr Ss statement that 
he again asked  for a new thermocouple  although  again that request isnt recorded in the 
British Gas records.
The records  include  the following:
RELIT PILOT LIT FIRST ATTEMPT ADVISED AGE/EFF/RSL CH/HW OK
From that, I find that the engineer re-ignited the boiler at the first attempt, suggested a new 
boiler and left it working. So I dont see any requirement for British Gas to replace the 
thermocouple. And I cant say that - without the benefit of hindsight  - the engineer shouldve 
waited longer before leaving.
I accept Mr Ss statement  that the boiler broke down within  an hour.  That mustve been 
frustrating for him  and the breakdown  again left Mr S and his wife with a cold house.
Ref: DRN82492033But the same engineer  returned at around 8pm that evening.  She replaced the thermocouple 
and left the boiler working.
I can quite see why Mr S thinks British Gas shouldve replaced the thermocouple before. But 
I havent found any requirement  for British Gas to replace that part sooner than it did. 
From a file note dated late September 2018, Im satisfied  that British  Gas explained to Mr S 
that its policy didnt  cover preventive  repairs.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to do any more in response  to 
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249203