K820x#14complaint
Miss P and Mr H complain that Mortgage  Advice Bureau Limited mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 2007 Miss P and Mr H took out PPI through Mortgage Advice  Bureau  to cover each of 
their incomes. The PPI provided 75% of the benefit in the event that Mr H couldnt work 
through accident or sickness or if he lost their job and 25% of the benefit in the event that 
Miss P couldnt work through accident or sickness or if she lost their job. The policy provided 
100% of the benefit if both couldnt  work.  It cost £36 a month and it provided a 100% benefit 
of £939 per month to broadly match their mortgage repayments.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss P and Mr Hs complaint. The adjudicator said the 
evidence showed  that Miss P and Mr H chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to 
indicate theyd  lost out as a result.
Miss P and Mr H disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Mortgage Advice Bureau says this was an advised sale. This means Mortgage Advice 
Bureau had to provide Miss P and Mr H not only with good enough information about the 
policy so they could make an informed decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy was 
right or suitable for them based on their needs and circumstances at the time. Ive taken this 
into account in my consideration of the case.
did Mortgage Advice Bureau make it clear  to Miss P and Mr H that they had a choice  
about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in 2007. Miss P and Mr H say they were pressured into taking the 
PPI. Mortgage Advice Bureau says it recommended the PPI to Miss P and Mr H and they 
chose to take it out.
Mortgage Advice Bureau and Miss P and Mr H have provided a number of documents 
including information  about the lending and the policy plus the Mortgage Advice Bureaus  
advisers review of Miss P and Mr Hs financial circumstances and subsequent 
recommendations. Both parties have explained what they think happened. 
I accept it is possible Mortgage Advice Bureau didnt give Miss P and Mr H a choice about  
taking PPI. I also accept it is possible Mortgage Advice Bureau gave them  the impression 
they had to take it out or that they would stand a better chance of getting a mortgage if they 
had PPI. But it seems more likely Mortgage Advice  Bureau gave Miss P and Mr H the 
Ref: DRN89357202opportunity to take out the policy or decline it and they chose  to take it out, but have simply 
forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed.
I say this for the following  reasons. I accept that the adviser would earn commission on the 
PPI but I dont accept  this means the adviser  necessarily mis-sold the PPI. I dont think its 
likely the adviser would tell Miss P and Mr H that they would have more chance of getting a 
mortgage if they took the PPI they bought because a lender wouldnt take an optional  regular 
premium PPI policy significantly  into account when making their lending decision.  This is 
because the consumer can cancel the PPI at any time with the loan continuing  so long as 
the repayments are being made.
But I do think, as I will explain below, that the recommendation the adviser was making was 
a suitable one and Miss P and Mr H had a need  for the cover. So I think  its more likely than 
not that the adviser would  have  strongly  recommended the PPI, which might have felt like 
pressure to Miss P and Mr H, but was not taking away their choice. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Miss P and Mr Hs complaint)  it is 
more likely than not Mortgage Advice Bureau  presented the policy  to Miss P and Mr H as 
compulsory, or pressurised them into taking it.
So I think Mortgage Advice Bureau  presented the policy to Miss P and Mr H as optional  and 
they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Miss  P and Mr H properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Miss P and Mr H lost out?
I dont know what Mortgage Advice Bureau said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Miss 
P and Mr H. I also dont know what information  Miss P and Mr H were given about the PPI. I 
dont know whether the policys benefits were explained to them  or if they were told about 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover. I find it unlikely Miss P and Mr H agreed  to 
take the cover out knowing very little about  it, but I dont know if they received everything  
they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Mortgage Advice Bureau recommended to Miss P and Mr H that they take out PPI. I accept 
Miss P and Mr H may not have been  treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Miss P and Mr H have lost out as a result.  
I say this because,  given  Miss P and Mr Hs circumstances and needs in 2007, I think  the 
policy cover  was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Miss P and Mr H would  have 
acted differently and not gone ahead with the cover  if Mortgage Advice Bureau had provided 
better information. My reasons are as follows:
Miss P and Mr H were  eligible for their cover  and all its benefits.
Miss P and Mr H were  employed and in good  health at the time, so it doesnt  appear 
they would  have been affected by any of the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover 
such as existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. 
Miss P and Mr Hs mortgage provided mainly for their home. They  both had income 
and possibly some  sick pay or redundancy pay entitlement from their employers. This 
could have helped  them make  the mortgage payments if either was off work ill or lost 
his or her job. But they had no savings and the policy would have paid out in addition 
Ref: DRN89357203to any sick pay or redundancy pay they received and for up to 12 months for each 
claim. So I think Miss P and Mr H had a need  for their cover and that it would have 
been useful to them if either  had found themselves unable to work. It could have 
helped them financially at what would be a difficult time - it could have helped them 
protect their home.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Miss P and Mr H but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  it solely on the basis  of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it and at 
£36 per month it appears to have been  affordable. And as they were paying  for the 
PPI monthly, they could  cancel  it without further cost if at any stage their situation 
changed or they no longer  wanted  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Miss P and Mr H may not have been  treated fairly  and reasonably  by Mortgage Advice 
Bureau in its dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance, for 
the reasons Ive detailed above, I think Miss P and Mr H chose to take out the PPI policy  and 
they would  have been in the same  position  if Mortgage Advice  Bureau  had done more and 
properly advised  and informed them - I think they would have still taken it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Miss P and Mr H have not lost out as a result  
of taking out the PPI policy with their mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8935720