K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Think Insure  Limited  is responsible for them entering incorrect 
information in a joint term assurance application  form.  They  consider this led to Mr Js critical 
illness claim being declined.
background
In November 2011 Mr and Mrs J set up a joint term assurance policy  (the policy)  with an 
insurance company  that Ill refer to as B. Think  Insure were  the sales agent who completed 
the application form using information  provided by Mrs J over the phone. Sadly,  in 2018, 
Mr J was diagnosed  with a serious  illness. When he tried to make a claim under the policy,  
this was declined  by B. It said this was because Mr J didnt disclose relevant information to a 
question about  his health in the application form. As a result,  B cancelled  the joint policy and 
refunded Mr and Mrs J all the premiums that had been paid. It offered to set up a separate  
policy for Mrs J if this was something  she wanted.
The relevant  question that B said was answered incorrectly  in terms of Mr J was as follows:
Have you used any cigarettes, cigars,  pipes, or nicotine replacements  in the last
twelve months - this includes occasional use?
This question was answered as no. But it was discovered during the claims process that 
Mr J had in fact used  cigarettes within the relevant period.
Mr and Mrs J said Think Insure were responsible for the question being answered 
incorrectly. Mrs J said the question she was asked over the phone by its agent  was whether 
either she and/ or Mr J had been smokers. Mrs J said in terms of Mr J, she had responded 
by saying that he had been  a smoker but that hed stopped  in June 2011. She says the 
agent advised her she could  answer no to the question as Mr J was no longer a smoker.  
Mr and Mrs J confirmed they received the completed application form by post a few days. 
But they say because of the agents  reassurance that theyd  answered  the questions  
correctly, they hadnt  checked it for accuracy.
Think Insure said whilst it no longer  had the recording of the sales call between its agent and 
Mrs J, it didnt think it was responsible for Mr J answering the relevant question incorrectly. It 
said its policy was, and still is, for its agents  to ask the questions  as posed in the insurers  
application form word for word. So Think Insure didnt believe Mr and Mrs J had been 
asked whether they were smokers or non-smokers as the question wasnt  posed in this 
way. It said as an additional security measure, Mr and Mrs J had the opportunity  to read the 
application form for accuracy  before  they signed it. So it didnt uphold  the complaint.
Unhappy with Think  Insures response Mr and Mrs J referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary, he considered  that Mr and Mrs J 
had the chance to check the application  form for accuracy following the phone call with Think 
Insures agent. So he didnt think he could hold it responsible for any incorrect information 
submitted to B on Mr and Mrs Js behalf.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
on the matter.
Ref: DRN80289492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Let me begin  by saying Im sorry to hear about  Mr Js ill health. I know  this is a difficult time 
for him and his family.  I should also note from the outset that though  this complaint is against 
Think Insure as the selling  business,  the decision to cancel the policy was made by the 
insurer, B. The responsibilities of the sales agent are to facilitate the accurate completion of 
an application being made  to the insurer. Its the latter that Mr and Mrs J says Think  Insure  
failed to do. My findings are based  solely on the issues as they stand against Think  Insure.
Think Insure has told this service it no longer has the recordings of the phone calls between  
Mrs J and its agent. As the calls were  made  in 2011,  I dont think this is unreasonable.  In the 
absence of call recordings, Think Insure has provided details of the sales script.  But I place 
little weight on this as it wasnt the sales script relevant at the time of the calls. Further, whilst 
I appreciate Think Insure  says its process  at the time was, and has always been,  for its 
agents to read the questions from the insurers application  word for word, as there  is no 
record of the sales  call, I cant be sure how the relevant question  was asked. Or that the 
sales agent didnt  go off script and say the things Mr and Mrs J are claiming were said.
Mrs J says she was asked  if she and Mr J were  smokers not the question that appears in 
the application which was Have you used  any cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or nicotine 
replacements in the last twelve months - this includes  occasional  use?  As Mrs J answered 
no to this question on behalf  of Mr J, this question was answered  incorrectly.  This is 
because Mr J had used  cigarettes within the relevant period. Mr and Mrs J dont dispute  this 
was the case,  but they say the question wasnt asked as it was written down. And they say 
the agent had mis-advised them on how to answer the question when Mr Js circumstances 
were explained.
As Ive noted, whilst its difficult to say for sure what happened  during the calls made 
between Mrs J and Think Insures agent, the completed application was sent to both Mr and 
Mrs J. This was sent to them in November 2011  and amongst other things, the attached  
Checking your details form says:
You need to check all the answers  weve  included  in this pack, fill in this form and send it 
back to us. It then goes  on to say that If any answers or any other statements made about 
your application  are not correct, incomplete, or are out of date [B] can refuse any claim and 
cancel your policy or policies.
So given these  statements,  even if I accept the exact wording  wasnt used during the sales  
calls, both Mr and Mrs J had the chance  to amend any errors the agent mayve  made.  
Where third party agents complete applications  on a customers  behalf, a copy of the 
information disclosed should be sent to that customer for checking, which  is what  happened 
in Mr and Mrs Js case. And the forms were signed  by both of them  to say the information 
was correct.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J said because of the reliance  on what the agent  said,  they didnt 
read the forms before checking the information and signing to say it was accurate. But this is 
something they were  strongly encouraged to do in the Checking your details section as 
highlighted by the text above.  The process of sending Checking your details documentation 
Ref: DRN80289493is to account for the possibility of an error with data being inputted incorrectly. That doesnt 
mean that mistakes on the sales agents part are acceptable  it simply provides an extra 
opportunity for the customer to be certain  that his or her details are portrayed  accurately to 
the insurer. Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs J didnt pick up on any of the inaccuracies they 
say caused Mr Js claim to be declined. But based  on the evidence Ive seen, I cannot hold 
Think Insure responsible  for that.
So whilst I understand this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr and Mrs J, particularly at 
this difficult time, for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020. 
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8028949