K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank plc is holding him liable for six cash machine and branch 
withdrawals that he says he neither made  nor authorised anyone else to make. The total 
amount of the disputed withdrawals is just over £3,700. 
background
Mr K has explained that he was visiting  a friend  and went  out, shortly  before midnight, to 
make a small cash machine withdrawal.  He saw a man at the cash machine, who engaged 
him in conversation and asked for a light. He says the man hugged him. Mr K withdrew  £20 
in cash from the machine.  
Immediately afterwards Mr Ks debit card was used at the same  cash machine to make  two 
further withdrawals  of £200 and £30  and a balance enquiry.  There were further attempts 
to use Mr Ks card over the following two to three hours; these werent successful, as Lloyds 
had blocked Mr Ks card.
At around 1pm  that is, some 13 hours  after the start of the events Ive described  Lloyds 
received a call from someone claiming  to be Mr K and asking that the block be removed.  
Lloyds arranged for that to be done.  Over the following  12 hours there  were  a further four 
withdrawals, including  a withdrawal of £2,600 made at a Lloyds branch. There were  also 
balance enquiries,  and two attempted cash machine withdrawals were declined.  
The following  morning  that is, around 34 hours after Mr Ks £20 cash  machine withdrawal  
he contacted Lloyds to say that his card was missing. He said he didnt recognise and wasnt 
responsible for any of the transactions made after the £20 cash machine withdrawal.
Mr K suggested that the man he spoke to at the cash machine might have observed his PIN. 
He said too that he thought hed dropped his wallet at the same time.  The bank didnt accept 
however that Mr K had nothing to do with the disputed withdrawals. It wouldnt refund the six 
transactions that Mr K was disputing.
Mr K referred the matter to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought it was likely that Mr K had either  carried out the disputed  transactions  himself or had 
allowed someone else to use his card and PIN. He didnt recommend that Lloyds  refund 
them. Mr K didnt accept  the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review 
them.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
All the disputed transactions were  made  using  Mr Ks genuine  card and his PIN. He has 
suggested that he was observed  using his PIN and that he then dropped his wallet.  Given  
what hes said about what happened  at the cash machine, however, Ive also considered the 
possibility that his wallet was taken from him. 
Mr K thinks  that CCTV footage should have been examined. Whilst I agree with the 
investigator that it would  not have shown whether the later withdrawals  were  made  by 
Ref: DRN84012982someone authorised  by Mr K, footage of Mr Ks last undisputed withdrawal might  well have 
shown whether he did in fact have his wallet stolen as he says.  Unfortunately,  though, that 
evidence isnt available,  and it would be wrong to make any assumptions  about what  it might  
or might not have  shown.  
Based on the evidence  I do have, however, Im not persuaded  that Mr Ks version of events 
is what actually happened. The first disputed  withdrawal  was made at the same cash  
machine less than a minute after Mr Ks withdrawal  of £20. Thats  not enough time for Mr K 
to have returned his card to his wallet, to drop his wallet  and then for someone  to pick it up 
and use the cash  machine.  Nor is it in my view sufficient time for someone  to have taken Mr 
Ks wallet from his pocket and to use it in the cash machine.  In any event, Mr K would still 
have been quite close to the cash machine;  anyone using  his card that quickly would  have 
run the risk that Mr K would realise his wallet was missing and seen  them using it. 
I note as well that Mr K has been  inconsistent in his recollection of when he noticed that his 
wallet was missing. He initially said that he realised almost immediately and returned to the 
cash machine to look for it. He later said he hadnt  noticed it missing until much later. I 
accept that Mr K might not, after some time, be able to remember  exactly  what happened, 
but I think he would remember if hed returned  to search for his wallet.  But, even if he didnt 
notice that his wallet was missing  immediately, I might have expected him to notice  and 
report it the following  day.   
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Mr K still had his card with him after 
the £20 withdrawal. 
I turn then to the call to Lloyds to unblock  Mr Ks card. As the investigator noted, the security 
questions asked of the caller  included some that it would have been difficult  for a stranger to 
answer confidently,  even  if they had other documents that Mr K said were in his wallet  a 
bank statement, National Insurance number and driving licence. The caller  was however 
able to answer questions confidently and without delay. 
Its significant too that Mr Ks account balance  was much higher than usual at the time of the 
disputed withdrawals. There had been a deposit  of £4,000 a few days  earlier.  Mr K explained 
that this was money he needed to pay for a flight to attend his nieces wedding.  But he hasnt 
been entirely consistent about the source of those  funds; he said that it was money hed 
saved at home, but also that family had given it to him. The two are not necessarily 
inconsistent, but I might  have expected him to have  a clearer  recollection in the 
circumstances.   
For these reasons I think it more likely than not that Mr K either carried  out the disputed 
withdrawals himself or allowed someone  else to do so. In the circumstances  it wouldnt be 
fair to require Lloyds  to refund them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything more  to resolve Mr Ks 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN84012983Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8401298