K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain on behalf of their daughters estate that National Westminster Bank 
Plc used  funds in her account to offset a debt.  
background
Mr and Mrs Hs daughter  held two accounts  with NatWest. In one account there was £77.14  
for child maintenance. In the other account  there  was an outstanding balance.
NatWest initially told Mr and Mrs H that it had used the remaining funds to offset the 
outstanding balance. Subsequently, after Mr and Mrs H had explained that the £77.14  
represented child maintenance  for their grandson, NatWest agreed to send Mr and Mrs H a 
cheque for £77.14.
However, despite Mr and Mrs H filling in a form to have  the funds transferred to them,  they 
didnt receive the payment.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to the bank.  NatWest apologised and sent Mr and Mrs H a cheque  
for £177.14 representing the funds in the account  together with £100 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs h didnt cash the cheque because they didnt want both amounts  in one 
payment. They  were also unhappy  that other credits to the account had been  used  to offset  
the overall debt.
NatWest acknowledged  it had made  an error in using the £77.14 to offset the debt in the 
other account. It told this service it was happy to issue  two separate  cheques  if Mr and 
Mrs H wanted this. It also confirmed it had written off the outstanding debt.
Our investigator explained that it wasnt her role to look at how NatWest had treated Mr and 
Mrs H, because the complaint had been brought on behalf of their daughters estate.  But the 
investigator commented that she thought  NatWest  had treated Mr and Mrs H poorly. In 
relation to the way in which NatWest had acted in relation to the accounts themselves, the 
investigator said that NatWest was allowed  to use a credit balance (other  than the child 
maintenance funds) to offset the borrowing in the other account  and that the decision to 
wrote off the balance was fair.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They felt that theyd been treated very badly by the bank and 
wanted more compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I explain my role here.  Although I understand that Mr and Mrs H are 
unhappy about the way theyve been  treated by the bank, Im unable  to look at this aspect. 
This is because Mr and Mrs H have brought this complaint on behalf of their daughters 
estate. So its the estate which is the complainant. Im unable to award compensation for 
trouble and upset  in these circumstances. But I am able to look at how NatWest  handled the 
accounts.
Ref: DRN83996672In this case, NatWest  has acknowledged that it made an error when it used child 
maintenance funds  to offset other borrowing. It has apologised to Mr and Mrs H for any 
upset caused.  I understand that the bank used other incoming funds to offset borrowing. I 
understand that this is a sensitive matter  but Im satisfied that the bank  was entitled to act as 
it did in relation to the other  credits. The credit  balance  can be treated differently to the child 
maintenance because the other  funds  were for the benefit of Mr and Mrs Hs daughter,  not 
for the benefit  of her son.
I can see that NatWest decided to wrote  of the outstanding  borrowing.  I think this was a fair 
and reasonable decision  in the circumstances.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H have been  treated poorly by NatWest  and that this has caused  
them both a great deal of upset. Im sorry to hear that theyve been caused  such distress. 
But as Ive said above, Im unable to award  further compensation for this aspect.
Taking everything into account  I think that NatWest has done enough by issuing the cheques 
for the child maintenance and compensation and writing  off the outstanding balance.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8399667