K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided misleading  information when 
they asked it for a redemption statement. As a result they say they thought they had repaid 
all their mortgage borrowing with Barclays.
In order to resolve matters they want Barclays to provide borrowing facilities  so that they 
can take out a new mortgage with it.
background
Mr and Mrs W held two mortgages  with Barclays, a residential mortgage and a buy to let 
(BTL) mortgage. The mortgages were arranged separately, had different mortgage account  
numbers and Mr and Mrs W received separate mortgage statements for each  mortgage.
In September  2017 Mr and Mrs W spoke  to Barclays and asked for the outstanding balance  
on their mortgage. They  were asked for their mortgage account number and gave the 
account number  for their residential mortgage. A Final Redemption  Statement  (FRS)  for this 
mortgage account was sent to Mr and Mrs W following this call.
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs W repaid their residential  mortgage  in full. The buy to let 
mortgage they also held with Barclays was not redeemed and the balance  on this mortgage 
remained outstanding.
The BTL mortgage  term ended in December 2017. Barclays  wrote to Mr and Mrs W several 
times about expiry  of this mortgage before and after the term ended. 
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs W complained to Barclays. They said that they thought they had 
redeemed all their mortgage borrowing with Barclays when they redeemed their residential  
mortgage in March 2018. In particular, they said that Barclays  had not explained  that the 
BTL mortgage  was a separate mortgage account  and was not linked to their residential 
mortgage. 
Barclays didnt uphold  their complaint. In explained  that, in line with the letters it had sent to 
Mr and Mrs W their BTL mortgage  term had ended on 22 December 2017 and the mortgage 
balance was still outstanding. It asked Mr and Mrs W to contact it to discuss  the repayment  
of this mortgage.
It explained that the residential mortgage and BTL mortgage Mr and Mrs W had taken out 
were separate. It noted that the mortgages  had been applied for separately,  had separate  
mortgage offers and account numbers and different  end dates. 
Barclays did, however, accept that the customer service Mr and Mrs W had received when 
they contacted  it about their mortgages was poor and it offered to pay them a total of £250 to 
compensate them for its poor service.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with Barclays  response  and brought their complaint to this 
service. They said they accepted that the BTL mortgage balance was still outstanding. But 
they said they were  finding it difficult to secure a new mortgage due to the type of property 
they hold.
Ref: DRN89141292Our investigator didnt  recommend that their complaint should be upheld.  She said she felt 
the £250 Barclays had offered for the poor customer service Mr and Mrs W had received 
was fair. And she explained that this service couldnt  require Barclays to agree a new 
mortgage with Mr and Mrs W to replace the BTL mortgage that had ended.  
She raised  the issue of extending the loan term with Barclays.  As no agreement was in place 
Barclays said it wouldn't be able to offer a further advance. It suggested  that Mr and Mrs W 
could contact a financial adviser to discuss their borrowing requirements. It also suggested 
that Mr and Mrs W could speak to its Maturity department to discuss how best to resolve this 
issue.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with our investigators view.  They  said they felt Barclays  was 
at fault as it had only given  them the outstanding balance  on their residential  mortgage when 
they asked for a redemption figure.  They said that if they had been given the outstanding 
balance for both mortgages  they would have either raised sufficient funds  to redeem both 
mortgages or they would  have extended the term of the mortgages. 
They reiterated that they were willing to repay the outstanding BTL mortgage  balance but 
were struggling to secure a mortgage  with another lender. They also said:
As I understand things, the Ombudsman has the ability to return a situation to the 
circumstances that pertained at the time of the occurrence of an issue.  This of course is the 
correct procedure if any appellant has clearly been disadvantaged or suffered a loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ws position.  I appreciate that there was a misunderstanding  
when they asked Barclays for a redemption figure in 2017. But I cant require Barclays to 
agree a new mortgage to replace the BTL mortgage that has expired. Ill explain why.
I accept that Mr and Mrs W may not have  understood that they had two separate  mortgage  
agreements with Barclays.  But I dont  think they could reasonably  have thought the 
redemption figure  they were provided  in 2017 for their residential mortgage could be correct  
if they were under the impression that this covered all the mortgage borrowing they had 
taken out with Barclays. 
Even if there  was some initial confusion,  I think  it would  have been apparent  to Mr and 
Mrs W that the redemption figure  wasnt correct  if it was intended to cover  all their mortgage 
borrowing.
I can see that Mr and Mrs W found the system Barclays uses difficult to navigate and I 
appreciate that this added  to their frustration.  I note that Barclays  has offered to pay Mr and 
Mrs W a total of £250 for the trouble and upset  the poor service  they received caused  them.  
I think this is fair and reasonable for the poor customer service they received.
Mr and Mrs W say they accept that the BTL mortgage balance is still outstanding. In order  to 
resolve this matter they want  this service to require  Barclays to extend the term of their BTL 
mortgage. But this service doesnt have  the power to order  a lender to agree to lend. (As 
their BTL mortgage term has already expired Barclays would need to agree a new mortgage 
with Mr and Mrs W, not extend the term.)
Ref: DRN89141293All lenders are required  by the industry  regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority,  to ensure 
that any borrowing  is affordable, both at the time it is agreed and for the foreseeable future. I 
therefore cannot order Barclays to agree to lend.  This is a decision it is entitled to make  in-
line with its lending criteria, based on any information it requires about the Mr and Mrs Ws 
personal and financial  situation. 
I would encourage  Mr and Mrs W to speak to Barclays  Maturity team if they have not already 
done so to discuss a way forward. I would  also encourage them to discuss  their mortgage 
requirements with a mortgage broker  if they are not able to agree a new mortgage with 
Barclays.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr and Mrs W were hoping  for but as I have 
explained, I cannot require a lender to agree to lend.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2021.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8914129