K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has caused unnecessary delays when
processing his theft claim under his car insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 December  2017,  setting out why Im 
not upholding my Gs complaint. I invited both parties to make  any further submissions by  
31 December 2019 before I finalised  matters.
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision so is attached below. Ageas didnt
have anything further to add and Mr G didnt  respond. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Ageas didnt cause any 
unnecessary delays in dealing  with Mr Gs car insurance claim. Ive seen that Ageas did 
send an instruction to the enquiry agent early in the claims  process and so I dont think  it 
was responsible for any delay in the enquiry  agent conducting its investigation. I also dont 
think it was unreasonable for Ageas to wait for the enquiry  agent  to conduct its investigation 
before requesting the police report as Ageas  has explained that this is its usual claims 
process. 
So taking everything into consideration, Ive no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I
reached in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Gs complaint 
against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Ben Waites
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8021846Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has caused unnecessary delays when
processing his theft claim under his car insurance policy.
background
In November 2018, Mr Gs high value sports car was stolen so he made a claim on his car
insurance policy with Ageas.  Although  Mr Gs claim was successful, he complained that it
shouldnt have taken  until April 2019 for it to decide this.
Ageas said it didnt think it had caused any unnecessary delays. It said the enquiry agent  it
appointed had difficulty arranging a meeting with Mr G and that there were delays in Mr G
providing the necessary documentations  to prove ownership of his car. Ageas also said
there were delays in receiving the police report which it had no control over.
Mr G was unhappy with Ageas  response, so he brought his complaint to us. He says the
value of his vehicle was of a substantial amount which he considered to be his savings, so
the thought of losing this caused  him a lot of stress. He also says his car was an investment
so the delay in settling  his claim meant  his investment wasnt  gaining  interest.  Mr G wants
Ageas to pay interest on the settlement amount from the date of his loss until the date of the
settlement.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought  Ageas had caused
unnecessary delays which amounted to around two months. These delays included an
administrative error in contacting  the enquiry agent  and not asking for the police report  much
earlier in the claims process.  He thought  Ageas should pay Mr G £200 compensation to
reflect the inconvenience and worry it caused. However,  he didnt think  it was fair to ask
Ageas to pay interest on the settlement amount as Mr G hadnt re-invested  the settlement
money as he put the money into his bank account.
Ageas accepted our investigators  opinion,  but Mr G remained unhappy because he feels  he
ought to be paid interest for the period he was deprived of the settlement. So the complaint
has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to not uphold
Mr Gs complaint. I understand  this will come  as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my
reasons why.
I think its important to first explain that Mr Gs claim was of a high value so I can understand
why it may have taken  some time for Ageas to investigate the claim before making  its
decision. Its also reasonable to expect some level of inconvenience  when  claiming under an
insurance policy. However, five months  is a long time to wait, so Ive looked  to see whether
there were any avoidable delays which  Ageas were  responsible for - and if there  were,  what
impact this has had on Mr G.
Ref: DRN8021846Ive considered the entire process Mr Gs claim went through  but Ive only referred to the
points I feel are relevant  to Mr Gs complaint.
police report and proof of ownership
Mr G first made Ageas  aware of the theft when he called it in early  December 2018.
According to Ageas  internal notes,  Mr G explained hed parked his car whilst he went
shopping, only to find it was gone when  he returned  a couple of hours later. He said hed
immediately called the police and so he was able to provide Ageas with a crime reference
number.
Its clear from this early point in the claim process  that Ageas was dealing with a theft claim
and that the police had been notified.  However,  Ageas  didnt start the process of requesting
a police report until it sent a form to Mr G in mid-February 2019   seeking his permission to
contact the police.
Ageas says the reason  for this is because  it generally assesses a claim once the enquiry
agent has had its initial interview - allowing  it to ask relevant questions to the police when
obtaining a police report. Although Ive seen  that Ageas  didnt find it necessary to tailor  its
questions to the police, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to wait for the enquiry  agent to
conduct its investigation before requesting the police report. Its also possible that had Ageas
had no concerns following the enquiry agents  investigation, it might  not have found  it
necessary to request the police report at all. So, I see no reason for Ageas to have acted
outside of its usual claim process for Mr Gs claim.
When its enquiry agent had completed its investigation at the end of January 2019, Ageas
had some concerns  which meant it couldnt decide the claim. I can see from Ageas internal
notes that it spoke with Mr G in mid-February  2019 to find out how Mr G had paid for his car
and requested evidence of this. Although there  were  delays in receiving  this information, I
dont think Ageas can be held responsible for this. I say this because  the statements Mr G
provided were originally illegible and redacted. This meant Ageas was unable  to confirm who
the payments  were  made  to and so it couldnt  establish proof of ownership - a reasonable
part of processing  any claim.
Whilst Ageas was establishing  proof  of ownership,  it started  the process for requesting  the
police report  as mentioned above this began in mid-February 2019. When Mr G received
the form, he contacted  Ageas to explain it hadnt  completed it with the specific requested
information and reasons  why it needed  this. However,  Ive seen that Ageas  was quick  to
acknowledge this, re-sending the form a few days later. Although there were subsequent
delays with the form, these were  due to Mr G sending the form in an unprintable format and
by the police rejecting the form due to Mr G not ticking the I consent/do not consent part of
the declaration.
So, taking into account all of the above,  Im satisfied Ageas didnt cause any unnecessary
delays in requesting the police report.
enquiry agent
Although Ive established it wasnt  unreasonable for Ageas to wait for the enquiry agent to
conclude its investigation  before requesting the police  report,  Ive also considered whether
there were any delays in the instruction of its enquiry agent.
Ref: DRN8021846In December 2018 Ageas notified Mr G that, due to the high value nature of the claim, it
needed to instruct  an enquiry agent.  Ageas had provided a copy  of the instruction it sent to
the enquiry agent around mid-December 2018.  However, Ageas internal notes suggest that
the enquiry agent never received the instruction until the beginning of January 2019.  The
internal notes suggest the enquiry agent  may not have received the original instruction due
to the size of the attachments included in the email. Although  I cant be sure why this wasnt
received, Im satisfied  Ageas did make  the instruction in December 2018.
Ageas has also provided a copy of the enquiry agents report  which was completed at the
end of January  2019. This explains that the enquiry agent had difficulty in meeting with Mr G
as he had made several changes to the appointment.  So although there were delays in
Ageas receiving the enquiry agents report, again I dont think  Ageas were  responsible  for
this.
summary
There is always going to be an element  of stress  involved with any instance  of theft 
especially when the item in question is of high value. So I can understand why Mr G feels
strongly about his claim, but Im satisfied Ageas didnt cause any unnecessary delays. I
acknowledge that Ageas could have requested the police report  sooner than it did, but I see
no reason why Ageas should  have  stepped  outside of its usual process.
I note Mr G says the car was an investment so he says he should  be entitled  to interest on
the settlement  amount.  But as I dont  think Ageas were  responsible  for the delays, I wont be
asking it to do anything  further.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Ben Waites
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8021846