K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd unfairly  cancelled  his motor 
insurance policy without  telling him.
background
Be Wiser sold Mr H an annual motor policy for £285.82. It later cancelled that policy.  But 
Mr H didnt receive any correspondence from Be Wiser about  that. Mr H only learned about 
the cancellation when he contacted it about renewing the policy. Mr H complained. Be Wiser 
said it had already refunded Mr H part of his premium. But it refunded  some  additional sums 
taking the total refund  to £181.74. It didnt refund the balance,  which  meant Mr H had paid 
£104.08 for a policy which  only provided cover for 18 days.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt  think  Be Wiser  had dealt with Mr H 
fairly. He recommended  that Be Wiser calculate  a refund of premium,  but thought it that it  
could retain  £14.10 to pay the insurer for Mr Hs time on cover,  but said it should refund the 
balance, which he calculated at of £89.98. The investigator added that Be Wiser  should  pay 
Mr H £250 compensation.  But after considering Be Wisers comments  on his initial 
assessment the investigator revised his recommendation to put things right and said that a 
fairer compensation  level would be £100.  Making  total compensation, after adding the 
£89.98 premium refund, of £189.98.
Neither Mr H nor Be Wiser agreed  with the investigators final assessment so the complaint's  
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it; my 
award to put things  right will be the same as our investigators final assessment.
Be Wiser is a broker, so it sells policies  and may help with their administration but the policy 
is underwritten by a separate  business (the insurer) who charges for the time on cover. 
After Mr H took out the policy  Be Wiser  wrote to him at his home  address to request some 
fairly standard information in order to validate  the policy.  That was a reasonable request for it 
to make.  But the postal service returned  the letter undelivered marked  that the address was 
inaccessible. 
Be Wiser then wrote to Mr H again. It said that if he didnt provide  the information  it asked  for 
in its previous letter, which it knew hadnt  been  delivered, it would cancel the policy within  
seven days. The postal service didnt deliver that letter either and returned it to Be Wiser 
saying that Mr H had gone  away. Be Wiser then cancelled Mr Hs policy  and wrote  to him 
to say that it had done so. The postal service  also returned that letter undelivered marked 
inaccessible.
I accept that it wasn't Be Wisers fault that its letters werent delivered,  and this is a matter  
Mr H has taken up with the postal service. But Be Wiser was aware that Mr H hadnt 
received any of the letters it sent to him. But it still went ahead and cancelled his policy  
anyway. Given that Be Wiser knew Mr H hadn't received its request for information  to 
validate the policy I dont think it was fair for it to cancel the policy  when it didnt receive that 
Ref: DRN89927022validation. Be Wiser had Mr Hs mobile phone number, so it could have  contacted him using 
that. But theres no persuasive  evidence it tried to do so. And given the seriousness of the 
situation I think it was unreasonable  that it didnt try harder to contact Mr H by other means. 
Be Wiser's  said that it provided a partial refund to Mr H some  weeks after it cancelled the 
policy. And this would have shown on his bank statement as being  from it. The inference  
being that Mr H should  have realised  his policy had been cancelled. But Be Wiser can't have 
known whether or not Mr H saw that entry on his bank statement. And even if he did he 
wouldnt have known  what  it was for. I don't think its reasonable to assume that he would 
somehow know that this was a partial refund of the premium because Be Wiser  had 
cancelled his policy. So I don't find that the fact that Be Wiser  had paid a partial  refund to 
Mr H in any way reduced  the impact  of its mistake in cancelling  the policy as it did. So Im 
satisfied that it was unfair that it cancelled his policy without  making  reasonable efforts to tell 
him what it was doing and why. And, while I think it was reasonable for the insurer  to charge  
Mr H £14.10 for his time on cover, I don't find it reasonable that Be Wiser kept any of the 
balance that Mr H had paid. So it should  refund to him the balance.
I can understand that it came as a shock  to Mr H to learn that hed been  driving  while 
uninsured for the best part of a year. And the consequences of this could  have been  
significant if hed needed to make  a claim or been  stopped by the police. But those  things 
didnt happen  and Mr H was aware  of that. So I don't intend to award  compensation for what 
might have happened but didnt.
Mr H said that at the time that he learned  his policy was cancelled he was travelling for 
business. So he was a significant  distance  from his home address. And because  he was no 
longer covered to drive  he was trapped away from home until he could arrange and pay for 
another policy. So he didnt think the £100  compensation  our investigator recommended 
went far enough.
As I've said above I can understand that Mr H would  have been shocked  to learn that his 
insurance was cancelled. But there  was no tangible long-term impact  of that. Mr H was able 
to source a replacement policy the same day. Hes told us that his new insurers had some  
concerns because he was paying  for his premium from his business account, which was 
registered at a different address to his policy, and the new insurer wanted to wait for that 
payment to clear before confirming  cover.  Mr H said this means he couldnt drive  his car in 
the meantime  and so was stuck  away from home.  
But in my experience,  particularly of dealing with complaints  about  insurers  and brokers, Im 
aware that many insurers are happy to accept payments for policies from credit  or debit card 
holders who are not otherwise connected  with the policy. And that includes accepting 
payment from people who dont live at the policy address. Similarly Im aware  that, as long 
as payment cards arent declined, its usual for insurers which offer policies  online  and 
through comparison websites  and that includes many of the best-known insurers  on the 
market - to be able to confirm cover immediately. And I think such  a policy should have been 
readily available to Mr H. I know that Mr H would like us to provide details of those insurers. 
But, as my decisions are published, and Im satisfied that Mr H could have arranged cover 
which began immediately,  I don't think it would be appropriate to start naming other 
businesses in this decision. So I don't think Be Wisers actions trapped Mr H away  from 
home. 
But as Ive said above I can understand that Mr H found the situation shocking and the 
situation was clearly a source of distress and inconvenience for him. So to put things right,  I 
Ref: DRN89927023think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, as its in line with 
compensation Ive awarded in other cases of similar seriousness.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Be Wiser to pay Mr H £100 
compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience. To that it should pay him the 
balance of the premium  hes paid, less the premium  he would have paid for 18 days cover to 
the insurer. It should take the above action within 28 days  of us telling it that Mr H has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Be Wiser pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should  also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate
Ref: DRN8992702