K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain about 
investment advice they received from Legal & General (Unit  Trust  Managers)  Limited.  In 
short, they feel were  in a vulnerable position and shouldnt have been advised to invest.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I explained why I thought  the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. 
I noted that a critical illness insurance claim payment such as Mr and Mrs R received in 2002 
would normally be used  to pay off a mortgage  or other debts.  But in their specific 
circumstances I could  understand why they had instead opted to invest the money. And, 
further, I felt the advice  given to them on how to do so had been generally suitable. 
L&G confirmed it had no comments  it wished  to make. 
Mr and Mrs Rs CMC said, in brief: 
Mr R had been recovering from a serious illness. He may have had a good prognosis  
but he wasnt working and was planning  to return to work within a year.  A prognosis 
is an estimate of what may happen in the future. So surely  it wouldve been sensible 
to keep these  funds on deposit until he returned to work?
The suitability letter may have painted a compelling picture of Mr and Mrs R and their 
situation. But this picture was painted by the adviser  and in his words. It was in his 
interest to persuade  Mr and Mrs R to invest the funds rather  than pay off their 
mortgage. The letter was biased towards  the investment being made rather than 
other opportunities being explored.
Finally, although  Mr and Mrs R held a large cash  sum it didnt necessitate  investing  
80% of these funds.  Looking at their circumstances and the uncertain  future  they 
had, if an investment was what they wanted  it shouldve been a much  lower amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
I havent been persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusion, which I continue to 
believe is fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate all the points  made by Mr and Mrs Rs CMC and do acknowledge that this is a 
finely balanced matter.  But in Mr and Mrs Rs specific circumstances I think the evidence  
supports an informed decision being made and suitable advice being provided. 
I accept that a similar objective couldve been  achieved with, say, a reduced amount 
invested and therefore less risk. But ultimately I dont think that what was advised was 
actually wrong, such that the complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN83787572my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN83787573COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented  by a claims  management  company (CMC),  complain about investment 
advice they received  from Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited.  In short, they feel were  in a 
vulnerable position and shouldnt have been advised to invest. 
background
The complaint primarily concerns advice given to Mr and Mrs R in 2002. As a result of Mr R 
experiencing a very serious health issue Mr and Mrs R received a payout  of around £84,000 from a 
critical illness policy taken out in 1998 to cover their interest-only mortgage. 
Following a series of meetings with an adviser where their needs and objectives were discussed and 
a fact fund completed  Mr and Mrs R were recommended a number of investments:
 £20,000 with profits bond  in joint names 
 £20,000 investment  bond  in joint names
 £7,000 each  into a stocks and shares ISA 
 £6,000 unit trust in Mr Rs name
 £20,000 special interest rate deposit account in Mr Rs name
The recommendations,  with the exception of the investment bond, were accepted and started in 
September 2002.
As the investments are managed by separate parts  of L&G the matter is being considered under  
separate references. That said, while  this complaint specifically deals  formally with the ISA and unit 
trust elements  of the 2002 advice, the nature of the matter means  that I will discuss the circumstances  
and my view as a whole.
L&G felt that sufficient  consideration had been given  to Mr Rs health circumstances and that thered  
been detailed discussions  of the possibility of paying off the mortgage.  However,  it was Mr and Mrs 
Rs preferred option to invest  some of the money, as Mr R had a very positive prognosis  and was due 
to return  to work within a year. The recommendation ensured they had enough money  available for 
emergencies and sufficient to make a years mortgage payments.       
 
Mr and Mrs Rs CMC disagreed with this and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
reached a different conclusion to that reached by L&G and felt the complaint should be upheld. He 
said that while  the recommendation made to Mr and Mrs R might have  been broadly suitable in terms 
of risk level and diversity,  they had nevertheless  been in a vulnerable position  with Mr R still off work 
with no guarantee  that he would return. 
Overall, the investigator  wasnt  persuaded that the risks of investing the money rather  than using  it to 
pay off the mortgage had been made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs R. He recommended that they 
be put back in the position  theyd  have  been in if theyd paid the invested money  to the mortgage  
rather than making the investments. 
L&G didnt accept the investigators view of the 2002 advice. It felt that the primary evidence  the 
suitability letter issued to Mr and Mrs R in August 2002  demonstrated that payment of the mortgage 
had been discussed and theyd decided  not to do so. 
That being so, L&G felt it was reasonable for the adviser  to have  then gone on to make a 
recommendation on how to invest the money  a recommendation that the investigator thought  was 
otherwise suitable.
Ref: DRN83787574L&G also highlighted that if Mr and Mrs S had used the money to pay off the mortgage theyd have 
been left with no emergency  funds. And there was also an early repayment charge associated with 
the mortgage. 
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Generally speaking, where protection  is taken out to cover a large liability  like a mortgage,  paying  off 
that liability  is the natural  course of action in the event of a claim.  
However, thats not to say there can never be circumstances where the policyholders might  choose to 
act differently. But theyd need to be fully aware of all the options open  to them and the potential  
downsides of acting contrary to the normal course  of action.
As noted, at the time of the 2002 advice Mr R was recovering from a serious  illness and had not yet 
returned to work. But it was documented that he had received a very encouraging prognosis and was 
planning to start work again within a year.  The suitability letter paints a very compelling  picture  of a 
couple who had faced a very tough challenge  in dealing  with 
Mr Rs illness but were  now looking very positively at their future.  They were very confident theyd be 
able to manage the mortgage going forward  and, as a result, wanted to keep the claim proceeds as 
separate money. 
I can understand why they might have wanted to do this. They were  still in their 40s. They had in front 
of them the likelihood that they would both be working  for upwards of 20 years. The mortgage 
commitment looked to be reasonably affordable in light of their joint income  around £300  per month. 
I can certainly see the appeal of having in excess of £80,000 invested for their future. 
So, on balance,  Im not persuaded that the adviser acted incorrectly in advising Mr and 
Mrs R to invest (in part) their payout,  rather than settling the mortgage.  I think  they acted as they did 
from an informed, well-reasoned position.
In respect of the advice itself, as the investigator noted, it appears to have been a broadly suitable 
portfolio. Of note, is the attention  given  to ensuring  that Mr Rs non-working status was taken 
advantage of from a tax perspective. And that the advice overall included significant  provision  for 
emergencies  £20,000  of the money placed in a high interest account along with a lump  sum 
equivalent to a years worth of mortgage payments retained. It also looks like Mr and Mrs R had a 
further £3,000 separately on deposit. And the investments themselves were a diversified selection of 
products that balanced low risk with medium risk. 
In summary, Im satisfied  that the advice  given by L&G was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, specifically  the 
recommendation of the unit trusts and ISA.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently of the view that 
the complaint should not be upheld.
Ref: DRN8378757