K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that an international payment  that they set up online was delayed.  
This led to stress as it was needed for medical  treatment.  They  also say that the amount  
received in the overseas  bank account  was less than had been expected. 
Mr and Mrs S further complain that, following a returned payment, they didnt receive the full 
amount paid back into their account.  
They would like the difference repaid to them  and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them by the delay. 
background 
Mr and Mrs S travelled to North Cyprus for medical  treatment in June  2018.  Whilst out there, 
they had to arrange for payment of the treatment. The final treatment  was due on 23 June 
2018 and the clinic  had requested payment before then.  
Mr S arranged for the payment  to be made  to the clinic via online banking.  The payment was 
requested at 18:18 hours on Tuesday, 19 June 2018. It didnt appear to Mr S that the 
payment had gone through  so, at 18:36  hours  on 19 June 2018,  he requested the payment 
to be made  again.  
The clinic hadnt received the payment due by the time of the final treatment. Mr and Mrs S 
say that they then had to persuade the clinic to go ahead with the treatment by showing 
them screen shots of the bank transfer,  photographs of the bank account showing the 
payment had gone and by giving their word that the payment was on its way. The clinic  
agreed to go ahead with the treatment. 
During this time, Mr S says that he made  a number of phone calls to Santander. Santanders  
file has a number  of recorded calls between them and Mr S. Many of these calls were  made  
on 26 June 2018,  the day before Mr and Mrs S were  due to fly back  home. 
Mr S says that Santander assured him that the payment  was on its way. If it hadnt been 
received, a trace could be put on the payment which could take another five days. 
Mr S says that he was concerned that the clinic wouldnt allow his wife and him to leave the 
country if the bill hadnt been paid. This wouldve meant them  trying  to find alternative flights 
and accommodation.  
Mr S managed to persuade the clinic  to let his wife and him leave the country on the 
assurance that the money would be paid.  When he landed in the UK, he opened an email  
from the clinic saying  that payment still hadnt been received. But, on the train journey home, 
he got another email saying that payment had finally been received.   
The payment to the clinic was around  47EU short. The clinic was happy with this and no 
further money was requested. 
Mr S had also requested  the second payment to be returned to him. He found, when it came 
back into his account, it was around £147  less than had gone out of his account.  
Ref: DRN87740672Mr and Mrs S complained to Santander about  the stress that they had been put through  due 
to the delayed payment. They also complained  that they hadnt received back all of their 
money for their second bank transfer on 19 June 2018. 
Santander responded by offering them  £50 as a gesture  of goodwill because they could 
appreciate the difficult situation that Mr and Mrs S were in. They  didnt think that they had 
made any banking  errors  in processing  the payment. Also, they said they had no control 
over exchange rates,  which  had caused  the difference  in the payment received back  into 
Mr and Mrs Ss bank  account. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with this outcome so they came  to us.
Our adjudicator found that there was no banking error. Although he appreciated that 
Mr and Mrs S had gone through a stressful time, he couldnt hold Santander  responsible for 
this. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr and Mrs S wont  be happy with my decision. I dont  think that there  has been a 
banking error. I will explain why. 
I understand the stress  that Mr and Mrs S were  under. To be in a foreign country whilst 
undergoing medical  treatment couldnt have been easy. Being unsure about whether they 
could pay the clinic  before  leaving the country, could only have added  to this stress. 
Especially as there was a possibility that they wouldnt then be able to leave the country. I 
have sympathy for what they must have gone  through. 
It is my duty to try to establish  if Santander did make errors that couldve been avoided.  It is 
only if I find that they have  that I can then go on to decide how this affected Mr and Mrs S 
and award appropriate compensation. 
International payment
I have looked  at Santanders  terms and conditions. They state that any payments outside the 
UK not in pounds, euros or US dollars  could take up to four days  to process,  depending  on 
the currency and the destination  of the payment. 
Although Mr S requested the payment  on 19 June  2018, it was after the cut off time of 3pm 
so wasnt actioned that day. Four working days would take us to the end of 26 June 2018. 
The payment didnt reach the clinics account  until 27 June 2018  which, I believe, wasnt an 
excessive delay. 
Mr S says that he had a call from Santanders  specialist  payments  team  telling him that the 
payment would be made by midday  on 27 June  2018. I fully accept that this was the case. 
Although Mr S believes that this was a key conversation, I cant see how it couldve made a 
difference to the outcome. It is unfortunate that Santander cant  find the recording of this call. 
Ref: DRN87740673But, I think, even  if we had it, it wouldnt persuade me to decide that the payment couldve 
been made faster. 
Santanders records show that, when the payment  went  out, it had the correct reference  on 
it. I think that the reference mustve been ultimately  left off by another bank involved in the 
process. So, I cant hold Santander responsible for this. In any case, it didnt stop the clinic 
linking the payment to Mr and Mrs S. 
The payment that the clinic  received  was short  of around 47EU. Santanders  records show  
that the fees for the payment were to be shared between Mr and Mrs S and the clinic. I 
appreciate that Mr S mightnt have  been aware  of this, but the shared option was chosen for 
the payment.  In any case, the clinic  has accepted the payment made and doesnt require an 
additional payment.  I understand that Mr S is upset  that the payment was short. Had he not 
opted to share the fees, then Mr S and Mrs S wouldve covered them all. This means that 
the fees that Mr S and Mrs S paid wouldve been higher. It is entirely up to Mr S if he wishes 
to make up the shortfall. 
Returned payment
I can see that Mr S and Mrs S received  around  £147 less than went  out of their account for 
the second payment made  in error.  I can understand why Mr S thinks that this isnt 
acceptable. But, Santanders terms and conditions clearly state  that there will be differences 
when changing  currency. They also state that third party banks might  apply charges. This is 
exactly what has happened here, from what I can see. So, I cant see how I can ask 
Santander to repay  the difference. 
Mr S says that Santander didnt tell him the charges that would be applied.  This wouldve 
been helpful. But, I cant see how this wouldve made a difference. Mr S had already made 
the second payment in error so, even if he had been  told the charges, it wouldnt have 
changed what they were. 
Mr S made the point  that he shouldnt have  been expected to read through  the terms and 
conditions at, what was clearly, a stressful time. I agree. But I do think  that Mr S couldve 
found out how long the payments  would take to be made and what charges wouldve been 
applied before he left the UK. 
Santanders terms and conditions are clear on international  payments and charges to be 
applied. I cant hold them responsible for Mr S and Mrs S not knowing them when they had 
been provided with them.  
I think Santander acted  fairly and reasonably  in offering £50 for the difficult  situation that 
Mr S and Mrs S were  in. I accept that this was a gesture of goodwill. I also accept that the 
further £50 offered was for errors  in their correspondence. 
Because I dont think that Santander  acted  in error,  I cant  go on to see what  compensation 
should be awarded to Mr S and Mrs S. I do appreciate that they went through a very difficult 
and stressful  time.  And I am glad that they had a good outcome from the treatment. But I 
cant award any compensation.
Ref: DRN87740674my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, other than to pay £100  to Mr S and Mrs S if not already done,  I 
dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything  else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8774067