K820x#14complaint
Miss H says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) incorrectly  recorded a 
default regarding  her credit card account.
background
Miss H called Amex on 15 December 2017.  She says she wanted to find out the balance  of 
her credit card and close  the account,  as she was moving abroad.  That same  day, Amex  
closed her account and Miss H paid the amount Amex had told her. Miss H says she called 
Amex again around  20 December 2017  to check it had received her payment, and it 
confirmed there was no outstanding balance and she need  take no further action.
About two years later Miss H was back in the UK and found Amex  had recorded  a default on 
her credit record.  She thought shed paid off her account in full, so she called Amex on 
13 March 2019.  It explained a transaction  had been added to her account two days after she 
called on 15 December 2017. As a gesture of goodwill, Amex refunded the late payment 
fees it had charged  Miss H but said it hadnt done  anything wrong - it said it had no record of 
telling her she had nothing to pay, it had sent her statements and a notice of arrears about 
the debt, and then correctly recorded a default  when the debt remained unpaid.
 
In April 2019 Miss H asked our service  to investigate. She said the default was unfair  as 
Amex had told her there was nothing to pay. And that her post had been managed whilst she 
was abroad and nothing was received from Amex  or its debt collectors.  Miss H said Amex 
had no proof  it had written  to her about  the debt and should have done so by recorded 
delivery. She said in her call on 13 March  2019,  Amex told her it didnt have  an address for 
her - so she said it couldnt have  written to her in 2018. And that Amex should have sent her 
an email about the debt as it knew she was moving abroad so a UK address and phone  
numbers werent a good way of contacting her. Miss H pointed out shed been able to open 
other Amex  accounts  after the default. 
 
For its part, Amex agreed it spoke to Miss H on 15 December 2017 but said it only kept call 
recordings for a few months  so this call was no longer available. It had no record  of Miss H 
calling after that date until she complained in March 2019. Amex said text and email alerts  
about missed payments  were no longer available to Miss H once shed closed her account. 
And it provided a recording  of a call it had with Miss H on 13 March  2019.
After looking into things,  our investigator  didnt  uphold  Miss Hs complaint.  He didnt doubt 
shed paid the amount Amex told her on 15 December 2017, but said Amex  wouldnt have 
been able to see the new transaction  added to her account after that. He thought  Amex  had 
made reasonable efforts to tell Miss H about the debt by sending her statements and calling 
her, and had correctly  issued and recorded the default. And he said hed heard nothing  in 
the call on 13 March  2019 to suggest Amex didnt hold an address for Miss H in 2018.  He 
also said Amex had no record  of the call Miss H said she made around 20 December 2017, 
but would  investigate further if Miss H provided more evidence  of making that call.
Miss H wanted her complaint to be looked  at again,  so it was passed to me for a decision.  
She also asked for a copy of the 13 March  2019  call, which  we provided. Miss H went  on to 
provide a call log to show shed made another, earlier, call to Amex on 13 March  2019. She 
said it was in this earlier call that Amex told her it didnt hold an address for her at the time it 
says it was writing to her about the debt.
Ref: DRN89390322Amex said it no longer held a recording  of the earlier call on 13 March 2019 as it only kept 
call recordings  for a few months, which had now passed. Our investigator shared this with 
Miss H. And Ive now gone  on to make my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be a disappointment  to Miss H, but Ill explain my reasons.
Its not in dispute  that Miss H called Amex  on 15 December 2017, but Amex is no longer 
able to provide  a copy of the call recording. As I cant  be certain what  was said,  Ive 
considered the evidence  I do have.  Amexs records show  that on 15 December 2017 Miss H 
did pay the balance  of her account as it stood on that day. But on 14 December 2017 shed 
made a payment from her credit card account  and Ive seen it took a little time for this 
transaction to be processed, so that it appeared on her account on 17 December 2017. 
Therefore Amex wouldnt have been  aware  of this transaction when  it spoke to Miss H on 
15 December 2017, so I cant say it did anything wrong by not telling her about it then.
Miss H says she called  Amex on around  20 December 2017 to check  her balance had been 
paid off, and it told her she had nothing more  to pay. Amexs  contact  notes show  no record  
of a call around this date and Miss H hasnt provided any supporting  evidence  to show  she 
made this particular call. So there isnt enough evidence for me to say Amex  did anything  
wrong on this point. 
Ive considered what Amex did to contact Miss H about the debt on her credit card account. 
Ive seen it sent her statements of account in January,  February, March  and April 2018, each 
of which  made clear a payment was due and should be paid immediately. Miss H was 
moving abroad at the time, but Ive seen  nothing to suggest she gave Amex a new address 
when she called on 15 December 2017.  So I could only reasonably expect Amex to write to 
the address it held for Miss H at that time, and Ive seen from the copies of the statements 
its provided that thats what it did. Amex wasnt obliged to email  her about the debt and its 
explained that wasnt an option once  her account  closed.
Amexs contact notes  show  it tried calling Miss Hs mobile number - the same number she 
provided to our service  - many times across March 2018. But theres no record that Miss H 
answered or responded. 
Amex posted  a notice of default to Miss H on 13 March 2018. Ive seen a copy  of that notice  
and Im satisfied Amex sent it to the address it held for Miss H at that time. I know  Miss H is 
concerned Amex might not have held an address for her at all around  that time,  and its 
unfortunate a recording  of the earlier call on 13 March  2019 is no longer available.  But Ive 
seen Amexs contact  notes from that day and listened to the call Miss Hs had with Amex 
later that day. And Ive not seen or heard  anything in those  to suggest Amex hadnt  held an 
address for her. And in any case, as Ive said, Ive seen  that Amex  did write to Miss H at the 
address it held for her at that time. Taking  all that into account, Im satisfied Amex took 
reasonable steps to let Miss H know about the debt.
Im also satisfied it wasnt unreasonable of Amex to send a default notice to Miss H, as it had 
been unsuccessfully seeking payment for three  months by that time. The default  notice said 
Miss H had 14 days to pay, that it would report on how shed managed  her account, and that 
she could contact it to discuss the debt. But Amex  didnt  receive  any payment or contact 
Ref: DRN89390323from Miss H, so it went on to default her account.  I dont think  that was unfair, as it had given 
her the opportunity to pay and avoid a default, but the debt remained outstanding. Miss H 
says Amex should have sent the default  notice by recorded delivery. But it wasnt  obliged to 
do that - it was only obliged to post it to her, which it did. 
Miss H says she was able to open  other  Amex  accounts in July 2018 and January 2019, 
after the default. But as Ive said, by then Amex had already taken reasonable steps to 
contact her about the debt before eventually defaulting the account. So I dont think it 
needed to raise the default with her again  after that. And a default doesnt necessarily mean 
Miss H wouldnt  be able to open another account.
Amex has a duty to accurately report how its customers manage their accounts. As Ive said, 
there was an outstanding  balance on Miss Hs credit card account that remained unpaid  and 
was then correctly  defaulted. So I cant say Amex  acted unfairly by marking the default  on 
her credit record.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939032