K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that a vacuum cleaner she bought using  credit provided by Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited, trading as Very,  was faulty.
background
Mrs B bought a vacuum cleaner from Shop Direct  Home Shopping (the retailer) in February 
2018. She financed  the purchase  through a credit account she has with Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  (the business). But Mrs B had problems with the vacuum cleaner. She 
sent it back but it was returned to her as the supplier could find no fault. But Mrs B still had 
problems with the vacuum cleaner  not picking up. She sent it back again and the supplier 
still couldnt find a fault. Having heard nothing from Mrs B for six weeks the supplier  
disposed of the product but payment is still being  requested.
Mrs B therefore raised a complaint  to the business.  She said,  as the provider of credit, they 
were jointly responsible and she wanted them to refund the £89.99 she spent on the cleaner. 
But she was unhappy  with their response and she therefore asked this service to look into 
the matter.
The business said they didnt think we could consider it. They  explained that Mrs Bs 
complaint was made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974) (section 75) but this act 
excluded goods  that had a value under £100. 
Our adjudicator provided his opinion in April 2018.  He agreed with the business  and 
explained that a claim  could  only be made jointly against the provider of credit  if the value of 
the claim was more than £100 and less than £30,000.  And as Mrs Bs product had only been 
for £89.99  a claim  couldnt be made against the business. So we didnt have jurisdiction  to 
consider Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with the adjudicators  view and she therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B but I agree with the adjudicators  view here.  Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit, it 
might be possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.  This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances,  a finance provider can be 
responsible for a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Ref: DRN88623942Here Mrs B claims that the retailer has supplied her with faulty  goods  and have therefore 
breached the contract they have  with her. So shes making a claim against the business, 
who provided the credit for her purchase; as section 75 holds  them jointly responsible.  
But there are financial limits. The Act says that the claim must relate to an item that costs 
more than £100 and no more than £30,000.
And as the item cost less than this, this is not a claim  Mrs B can raise against the business 
under section 75.
She may be able to raise a claim with the retailer who are Shop Direct Home Shopping but 
as they are not regulated  by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) thats  not something we 
are allowed  to consider.  This service can only help with disputes concerning financially 
regulated businesses.
So, whilst I can see this must  be frustrating  for Mrs B, Im afraid we cant help. Any dispute  
she still has should be raised directly with the retailer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8862394