K820x#14complaint
Mr J1 through his relative Mr J2 complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax  
(Halifax) acted  unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with Mr J1s mortgage and 
shouldnt have given  it in the first place. He wants the interest  rate reduced, a new payment 
plan agreed or the debt written off and the legal proceedings to take possession  of the 
property suspended.
background
Mr J1 had an interest  only mortgage with Halifax  taken out through  a broker. The 
Department of Work  and Pensions (DWP) were paying towards the mortgage, but required 
repayment of about  £9,000 paid towards the mortgage in 2015.  This put the mortgage  into 
significant arrears; Mr J2 said Mr J1 didnt know about this until debt collectors  contacted 
him. Mr J2 felt that Halifax hadnt done  enough to alleviate the position  for Mr J1, shouldve 
given the refund to Mr J1, and shouldnt take possession  proceedings.  Mr J2 also said that 
the mortgage had been mis-sold as Mr J1 was 63 when he was given a mortgage due to last 
40 years,  without a plan to repay  the mortgage  when it ended.
Mr J2 complained to Halifax. It explained  that Mr J1 had taken out a retirement home  plan 
mortgage, which would be repaid  on the sale of the property. Halifax said that the broker  
was responsible for the sale, not Halifax, but the application had met its lending policies. It 
also explained that it was legally required to return  the DWP money and wrote  to Mr J1 at 
the time to inform  him. Halifax  wasnt able to resolve the dispute between Mr J1 and the 
DWP and said it had to return the money  to the entity that had paid it, the DWP, not Mr J1. 
Halifax also explained that it was required to send  information  to Mr J1 about his mortgage  
even though Mr J2 had authority to deal with the mortgage; this rule also covered the 
collection team trying  to deal with the arrears.  It also noted that as Mr J1 was unable to pay 
the correct sum due each month  (as the position had been rectified by the DWP refund), it 
appeared that he was struggling to afford  the mortgage and told him about  the options  
available.
Mr J2 complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint about the alleged  
mis-selling of the mortgage had been brought to this service  too late  Mr J1 didnt bring his 
complaint to this service  within  six months  of receiving  Halifaxs final response letter  and 
there was no evidence of exceptional circumstances explaining the delay.  Halifax wouldnt 
consent to the issue  of the alleged mis-sale being considered  out of time. The complaint 
about the refund to the DWP had also been  brought too late to this service, but Halifax had 
given consent  to this service  considering  this issue as it was relevant  to the arrears.
The investigator said the DWP had notified Halifax that it had overpaid Mr J1s mortgage  for 
several years and had to be refunded  about  £9,000. He noted Mr J1 had been sent a letter 
at the time explaining what had happened and that Halifax was being  directed to return  the 
money to the DWP. The investigator didnt think that Halifax was at fault as the DWP  had 
stated it had overpaid and had paid the money itself (so Mr J1 wasnt  entitled to the money).  
If Mr J1 wanted to take up the matter with the DWP, that was a matter  for him, not Halifax.
Ref: DRN80217732The investigator accepted that the refund to the DWP meant Mr J1 was in a significant 
amount of arrears. But Halifax didnt  offer new products to consumers on retirement  home 
plan mortgages  and would normally send such consumers to another business; this 
business wouldnt accept  customers  in arrears, so the investigator said while Halifax 
couldve been more  proactive, it made no difference. Even if the arrears had been 
capitalised (added  to the mortgage balance), the investigator noted Mr J1 would still have to 
pay interest on the whole  balance  and the interest rate with the other  business  was higher 
than Halifaxs. This wouldve made  Mr J1s position  worse.
Mr J2 disagreed. He said that the investigator had missed the point and he hadnt  asked for 
the refund  to be paid to Mr J1. Mr J2 said neither the DWP or Halifax contacted  Mr J1 before 
carrying out the refund and Halifax had afterwards made threatening calls about 
repossession to Mr J1. He also said that the DWP  was at fault. The investigator said that 
Mr J2 had said that the refund shouldve been  direct to Mr J1, but said it wasnt  core to the 
complaint. He sent evidence that Mr J1 was told about the refund at the time.  He also 
reiterated that Mr J1 had brought  his complaint  about mis-selling too late to this service, 
even though Mr J2 said there were exceptional circumstances as he was dealing with 
various parties and Mr J1 was unwell.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the mortgage was taken out, Mr J1 did so through a broker. Its the role of the broker 
to ensure that the mortgage was suitable to meet his needs, not Halifaxs. Halifax was also 
able to rely on the information provided by the broker about the application and Mr J1, and 
as the mortgage was designed for mature customers, theres nothing inherently wrong with 
Mr J1 being older when he took it out. And as the mortgage isnt the same as a conventional 
mortgage, the two different types of mortgage cant be compared as they meet different 
needs. Halifax didnt  sell the mortgage, so couldnt  have mis-sold  it.
The core of this complaint  is about the DWP refund and the consequences  of the mortgage 
being in arrears. First, Halifax was legally required under the law to return  the DWP money 
when it received the refund notice.  And I note that Halifax  wrote  to Mr J1 about the refund at 
the time;  the letter was correctly addressed so if it didnt reach Mr J1, this wasnt Halifaxs 
fault as it isnt responsible for the delivery  of post. I dont think  Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in refunding the money  to DWP  or in how Mr J1 was notified of the refund.
The debt collectors Mr J2 asserts first told Mr J1 about the refund were in fact Halifax  itself. 
And I can see from the evidence available to me that what  happened was that Mr J1 wasnt  
paying enough each month towards  the mortgage  and the DWP overpayment masked that 
from view. When the money  was refunded,  it became  clear  that Mr J1 wasnt paying enough 
and the mortgage was in arrears. Regular arrears  letters were sent to him by Halifax  (again, 
correctly addressed), and then the collections team from Halifax made contact by phone. 
Lenders are required to tell consumers  regularly about arrears  and the possibility of 
possession proceedings; such contacts are sometimes described as threatening by 
debtors, but theres no evidence on which I can find Halifax has so acted. I dont think  
Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably in complying with its duty to inform consumers of 
arrears and to see if repayment  is possible,  even though Mr J2 had authority to deal with the 
account.
Ref: DRN80217733What about Halifaxs  inability to offer Mr J1 a new mortgage product? Lenders are able to 
use their commercial judgement and decide not to continue to offer particular products. 
Halifax has chosen to stop lending in this area and now refers consumers to a related 
business. This isnt unfair or unreasonable. But the other business only offers more 
expensive products and adding the arrears to the mortgage balance  still isnt going to 
improve Mr J1s position. Neither of these options are a solution to Mr J1s current financial 
difficulties in my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J1 to accept  or reject my decision before 6 
September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8021773