K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund  to him the 
money that he paid for overseas car rental and the other costs  that hes claimed.
background
Mr D used his American  Express credit card to pay £87.49 to rent a car when he was 
overseas in July 2018. He says that he arrived at the airport and followed the instructions for 
the car pick-up  but the phone number that hed been  given was incorrect - and that, when  he 
was able to contact the car rental company, he was treated rudely and was left stranded  at 
the airport. So he says that he took a taxi to his hotel and rented a car from there.  He 
complained to the car rental company and he then asked American Express to make  a 
chargeback for the payment to the car rental company. But the car rental company defended 
the chargeback  and said that Mr D was a no-show.  American  Express  paid £15 
compensation to Mr D. But Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response and complained to this 
service. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
American Express had requested a chargeback but there wasnt any guarantee that the 
chargeback wouldve been accepted. She thought  that it couldve done more in the original 
request and shouldve allowed it to go to arbitration - but she still didnt think that arbitration 
wouldve led to the claim being accepted and the refund allowed. So she didnt think  that 
American Express need do anything more. 
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he doesnt think that enough has been  done  to investigate the matter fully and that 
American Express couldve  done  more in requesting information from the car rental 
company. And he says that arbitration  may have  come to a different conclusion  and thats  
not a decision  for the investigator  to make  so its a failure on American Expresss  part not 
to have referred the chargeback to arbitration. And he says that if American Express  has 
signed up to the voluntary scheme  to attract customers then it should adhere to the rules 
and be taken to task when it fails to properly look into complaints of this nature.
American Express says that it was satisfied with the information that was provided to defend  
the chargeback  by the car rental  company and that it wouldnt have referred this matter for 
arbitration in these circumstances. It says that arbitration wouldnt be taken where theres 
majority agreement and the outcome  has complied  with the chargeback  requirements  and 
was found satisfactory, as was the case here. And it doesnt believe that it couldve done 
more or that it shouldve  referred the case for arbitration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made. 
Ref: DRN89685282When Mr D contacted American Express about his payment to the car rental company, it 
made a chargeback request.  But the chargeback was defended by the car rental company 
because it said that Mr D was a no show.  I can understand Mr Ds frustration at being told 
that he was a no-show when its clear from the evidence that hes given that he made 
considerable efforts to collect his rental car. But hes not been  able to provide enough 
evidence to show that he was in the correct location  for his car pick-up. So, despite the 
efforts that he made, theres not enough  evidence to show that it was wrong for the car 
rental company to treat him as a no-show.
Im not persuaded that its likely  that the outcome of the chargeback wouldve been any 
different if American Express  had investigated the chargeback in more detail or if the request 
had been subject to arbitration.  So I dont consider that American Express  has acted 
incorrectly in connection with Mr Ds chargeback  request.  It accepts that Mr D was mis-
advised about the charge  being re-suspended from his account  and its credited his 
account with £15 as a goodwill gesture because of that. 
Mr D has clearly paid £87.49 for car rental that he hasnt used (and has incurred other 
costs). But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require American Express  to refund any of that money to him, to pay him any further 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8968528