K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Ms A took out a total of eight loans  with Lending Stream between  September 2011  and 
October 2013. All eight loans were repayable by a series of monthly instalments.
Loan Date loan 
takenDate 
repaidNumber of 
instalmentsAmount
1 06/09/2011 - 5 £150.00
2 15/09/2011 - 5 £115.00
3 16/11/2011 - 5 £115.00
4 14/08/2013 - 6 £100.00
5 03/10/2013 - 6 £80.00
6 06/10/2013 - 6 £100.00
7 11/10/2013 - 6 £100.00
8 16/10/2013 - 6 £50.00
Ms A believes that Lending Stream was irresponsible to lend to her. She says that at the 
time she borrowed from Lending Stream, she was juggling short-term  loans from several  
lenders, and her borrowing was spiralling out of control. She believes that if Lending Stream  
had carried out proper checks, it would  have realised that her credit  history was poor,  and it 
shouldnt have agreed to lend to her.
In its final response to Ms As complaint, Lending  Stream accepted that loan 2 might  not 
have been affordable for Ms A. And it offered to refund all interest and charges on loan 2, 
and to remove any negative information about that loan from Ms As credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that what Lending Stream  had offered to do went  far enough. In 
summary, she didnt think Lending Stream had been  wrong  to make the first three  loans to 
Ms A. But she didnt think it should  have made  any of the other loans.  So she said that 
Lending Stream should, in addition to doing as it had offered to do concerning loan 2, refund 
all interest and charges  on loans  4 to 8. And she said Lending Stream  should  remove  loans 
4 to 8 from Ms As credit  file completely.
Lending Stream didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. So the complaints been passed to 
me.
Ref: DRN82218762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Ms A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Ms A could sustainably repay  her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint.
Lending Stream has confirmed  that its offer concerning loan 2 remains  open,  and I havent 
considered that loan as part of this complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks that it carried out before it lent to Ms A. It 
asked her for details  of her monthly  income  and regular monthly expenditure. And it carried 
out a credit check each  time.
Ref: DRN82218763As I mentioned earlier each of Ms As loans was repayable  over a six month period. So the 
amounts that she needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal  
payday loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a 
significantly longer  period.  And at times Ms A had a number  of loans outstanding together.  
So Ive needed  to consider the total amount that Ms A needed to repay  to Lending  Stream 
each month.
Im satisfied that the checks  Lending  Stream carried out before making loans 1 and 3 were 
proportionate. The repayments on the loans were a relatively small proportion of Ms As 
declared monthly income. Lending  Stream was entitled to rely on the information  Ms A 
provided, in the absence  of anything to suggest it was likely  to be unreliable.  And on the 
basis of that information, Ms As borrowing history with Lending  Stream  at that stage, and 
the results of the checks that Lending Stream  carried out, Im satisfied that there was nothing  
which ought to have alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that Ms A couldnt afford the 
loans, or that she was borrowing unsustainably.
But I agree  with the adjudicator that Lending Stream shouldnt  have made  loans 4 to 8, and 
for similar reasons. This is because:
At the point when Ms A applied for those loans,  shed repaid very little of the capital on 
loans 1 and 2, and none on loan 3, even though those loans had been outstanding for 
some considerable time.
I think it should have  been clear to Lending  Stream that Ms A was having  difficulty 
repaying her existing  borrowing,  and that further borrowing was highly likely to be 
unsustainable for her.
Although I accept that Ms A had changed her surname and address by the time she took 
out loans 4 to 8, her first name and date of birth remained the same.  And Lending 
Stream has confirmed that it allocated the same  customer number to all eight loans. So 
I think it would have  been clear that the applications came from the same  borrower.
I think that Ms A lost out because Lending  Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
4 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms As indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The extended period of time she owed Lending Stream  money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on Ms As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  Ms As complaint about  loans 4 to 8. 
Ref: DRN82218764putting things right
Lending Stream accepted that loan 2 may not have been affordable to Ms A, and it has 
confirmed that its offer that I referred  to above remains  open. In addition,  I dont think 
Lending Stream should have agreed  to lend to Ms A after and including  the loan that she 
took out on 14 August 2013 (loan  4). So for each of loans  2 and loans 4 to 8, Lending 
Stream should:
Refund any interest and charges that Ms A paid on those loans;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of those amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove  any negative  information about  loan 2 from Ms As credit file;
The number of loans  taken by the time of loan 4 means that any information  about loans 
4 to 8 is negative. So Lending Stream should remove  all entries  about  loans  4 to 8 from 
Ms As credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Ms A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Lending Stream eventually  sold all of Ms As loans  to a debt collection company. I dont 
know whether Ms A has repaid any of her debt to the debt collection company.
It seems  reasonable that if Ms A still owes any of the capital she borrowed, the refund due to 
her should  be used to reduce that debt. But to do so, Lending Stream  must first take the debt 
back into its own books and reduce it to reflect  just the capital that Ms A borrowed. If 
Lending Stream is unable,  or unwilling, to do this, it must ensure that its interest and 
charges, and any other interest and charges added  by the debt collection company, are 
refunded to Ms A, so she can choose  whether to use the compensation to reduce her debt 
directly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Gain  Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream)  to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8221876