K821x#15Complaint
Mr E has complained that TM Advances  Limited  (TM Advances) irresponsibly provided him 
with an unaffordable loan.  
Background
TM Advances provided Mr E with a loan of £3,000.00 in August 2018. This loan had an APR 
of 149.1% and a 40-month  term. This all meant  the total amount repayable of £9,960.00 was 
due to be repaid  in 40 instalments of around  £249.20.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that TM Advances unfairly 
provided this loan as its checks  ought  to have alerted it to the fact that the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr E. TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicator  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending  -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when  deciding  Mr Es complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Es complaint. These two
questions are:
1.Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself
that Mr E would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those  checks  have shown  that Mr E wouldve been able to do 
so?
2.Did TM Advances act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that
Mr E would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
TM Advances provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority  (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TM Advances  to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make  the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so TM Advances had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr E. In practice  this 
meant that TM Advances had to ensure  that making  the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr E undue  difficulty or adverse consequences.
Ref: DRN86839512In other  words, it wasnt enough  for TM Advances to simply think  about the likelihood  of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended  
period); and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were TM Advances checks reasonable and proportionate?
TM Advances says that it carried  out an income  and expenditure assessment with Mr E prior 
to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr E declared  that he was 
earning around £2,020 a month and had expenditure of around £1100  a month. All of this 
left him with around  £769 a month which was more than enough  to cover the payments to 
this loan. 
Ive carefully considered  what TM Advances has said.  But the credit check it carried out 
showed that Mr E had taken significant amounts of short-term lending in the lead up to this 
application. While some of the proceeds  of this loan were  going to be used to settle payday 
loans, he would still have  been left with over £2000.00 left to pay and this, or Mr Es other 
existing credit commitments, wasnt even  factored  in to TM Advances income and 
expenditure assessment. 
In my view, this called  into question  the accuracy of monthly disposable income TM 
Advances arrived at  after all why would  someone in Mr Es apparent position of having  
Ref: DRN86839513over £750  in disposable income owe so much  to short-term lenders  and be looking to borrow 
a further £3,000.00 on such  disadvantageous terms? I think  the mismatch between  Mr Es 
declared disposable income and his apparent credit position meant that it would have  been  
fair, reasonable and proportionate for TM Advances to have taken steps  to verify Mr Es 
actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant  see that this TM Advances did do this, I dont  think that the checks  it carried  out 
before providing  Mr E with his loan were  reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to TM Advances  that Mr E
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have  told TM Advances that Mr E would have 
been unable  to sustainably repay this loan.
TM Advances was required to establish whether Mr E could make his loan repayments  
without experiencing significant adverse consequences   not just whether the loan payments 
were technically  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered  the information  provided. Having done so, its clear  Mr Es was 
using this loan and other similar types  of unsustainable credit in order to supplement  his 
income, repay previous debts and meet his day to day living  expenses.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr E would not have been able to make  the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further  and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances,  I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than 
not have alerted TM Advances to the fact that Mr E was in no sort of position to make  the 
payments on this loan without suffering  significant adverse consequences.
Did TM Advances act unfairly  or unreasonably  towards Mr E in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  And having done  so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in some  other  
way. So I dont think TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in some 
other way.
Did Mr E lose out as a result of TM Advances unfairly providing  him with this loan?
As Mr E paid a high amount  of interest  and charges on a loan that he shouldnt  have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what TM Advances did wrong.
So I think that TM Advances needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  TM Advances needs to do to put things right for Mr E
Having thought about everything, TM Advances should put things right for Mr E by:
refunding the interest and charges Mr E paid as a result  on this loan;
Ref: DRN86839514add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr E to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit  file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Es complaint. TM Advances Limited  needs  
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683951