K821x#15complaint
The complaint concerns  a transfer of funds made  in error by Company J to the Pockit  
Prepaid Mastercard account of its directors. The directors complain that they received  
extremely poor level of customer service following the erroneous transfer.
The Pockit Card and the associated electronic account are promoted by Pockit  Limited 
(Pockit).  The Pockit Card is issued by Wirecard Card Solutions  Limited  and Pockit is an 
electronic money  agent of Wirecard. For avoidance  of doubt, though the complaint concerns 
the service provided  by Pockit, the respondent business here is Wirecard.
background
The background to the complaint is set out in detail by one of our investigators in his letter of 
11 March 2020.   
Briefly, in early April 2019, Company J transferred in error nearly £42,000 to its directors 
Pockit account. The payment was blocked by Pockit and the money  wasnt  credited to the 
Pockit account.  Company J promptly contacted Pockit and asked for the money to be 
returned. However it wasnt done so by Pockit until early June 2019. 
Separately, Pockit also blocked the access by the directors to their Pockit  card and account,  
and eventually decided  to close that account.  This was on the basis  that the account  was 
used for business  purposes which it says wasnt allowed as per the terms and conditions.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that Pockit was entitled to block and review  
any suspicious payment  into the account. He also accepted that Pockit was entitled  to close 
an account which wasnt operated in line with the terms  and conditions.
However he noted that Pockit had a responsibility  to conduct any such review efficiently and 
not unnecessarily withhold  access to the funds and account. He concluded that it handled 
the review poorly  and caused unnecessary inconvenience and stress to the directors.  He 
also said that Pockit had not provided details of any review that it carried  or shown why it 
was reasonable  to withhold the payment for such a long time. 
As it is the responsibility  of Wirecard to put things  right, he asked that Wirecard pay simple 
interest on the withheld amount at 8% per year, from the date of initial  transfer to the date of 
return of the funds. In addition  he asked  Wirecard  to pay interest  on the balance amount that 
remained in the Pockit account at the time of closure, which was subsequently returned  to 
the directors. The investigator also said that Wirecard should pay £500 to reflect the trouble 
and upset caused due to the overall  handling  of the case by Pockit.
Wirecard agreed to the interest payments as suggested by the investigator.  However it only 
offered to pay £150 by way of compensation for the inconvenience  caused in this regard.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The director  of Company J contacted Pockit soon after the transfer and on 15 April 2019 
provided the information he was asked. However  the funds were  not returned  until early  
Ref: DRN89443742June 2019. Pockit has not given any reasonable explanation for this delay and like the 
investigator I am unable  to see any evidence to show what  exactly Pockit  did in relation to 
this during this period.  So I consider it fair that interest is paid for the delay. Though the 
director has provided the information  on 15 April,  Wirecard has agreed  to pay interest from 
the date of transfer (which I believe is 9 April). This is marginally in favour of its customer 
and I see no reason to change  it.
I will make  no specific  comment  about the closure  of the Pockit account here as it relates to 
the directors personal account and not of Company  J. That said, I note that Wirecard  has 
agreed to pay interest in relation to this as recommended by the investigator.  
The unresolved issue is essentially  about the extent of compensation for the inconvenience 
this matter has caused. This matter is different to Company J being deprived of its funds due 
to the delay, which I have already dealt with. 
I can see from the available information  that the director of Company J had to contact Pockit 
several times over a period of two months through email and telephone to get the money  
returned. The amount involved was not small. And it is evident that Company J was 
desperate to get the money back swiftly as it was intended as a dividend payment. Pockit 
failed to acknowledge a number of emails  sent by the director leading to more  attempts by 
him to find out what was going on. 
I also think that it provided conflicting information  on 30 April causing further inconvenience. 
And on 10 May the director was told that the money should be received in approximately 10 
working days but that did not happen,  leading to more chasers  by the director.  The 
payment was eventually  made on 10 June 2019.  
Overall, it is my view that though the initial error was made by Company J, Pockit  
subsequently provided poor customer service and Company J was put to considerable 
amount of inconvenience  as a result.  Taking  everything into account  I consider that a 
payment of £300  in this regard is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  
my final decision
My decision  is that the complaint should  be upheld and in full and final settlement of the 
complaint Wirecard Card Solutions Limited  should:
pay £571.36 to Company  J and £5.44 to the directors by way of interest  as agreed and 
pay £300 to Company  J for the inconvenience  caused due to poor customer  service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 June  2020.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8944374