K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns a Lifetime Cover  policy taken  out on the advice of Lloyds Bank  
Plc.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Rs complaint,  a copy  of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  In brief, I felt the recommendation  of the policy was suitable  for 
Mr Rs needs and circumstances   namely, to produce a sum of money to pay for his funeral 
costs given his lack of any significant savings.
Lloyds confirmed it had nothing it wished to add. Mr R said,  in brief;  
What happens  now with the money  hes paid in to the policy? He trusts this will be
recouped upon  his passing. If not, then it seemed the banks are sitting on millions  
and this is the start of another PPI-type scandal.
He is trying to recoup  a similar policy for his mother-in-law as her executor, another 
example of a policy which pays out some £800  although  £1,500 has been paid in. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to change my view. I still dont think Mr Rs complaint should  be 
upheld. 
I appreciate Mr R is concerned that hes paid in more to the policy  than it will now pay out. 
But, as I said previously, that is the nature of insurance. Had he passed away  in the early 
years of the policy (after  the initial two years) it wouldve  paid out far more  than hed paid in. 
And it was that sort of protection Mr R was looking for, to cover  funeral costs in the event of 
his death. And that cover  will still be provided, if the premiums continue to be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85011402COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns  a Lifetime Cover policy taken out on the advice  of Lloyds  Bank PLC.
background
Mr R was advised  to start his policy  in 2009 as a means of providing his wife with a lump sum to cover 
funeral expenses. At the time he was just into his 60s, still working and planning  to retire at 65. He 
had no life cover and only a small  amount  of savings   around £350.
The policy provided  £5,000 of life cover  for initial monthly premiums of just over £51. The cover and 
premiums were indexed, meaning they would rise annually in line with the Retail Price  Index  
although that feature could be stopped at any time.  The premiums were  otherwise guaranteed  (so not 
subject to any performance reviews) and would stop on Mr Rs 90th birthday.  The policy would have 
no cash-in value at any point.
Mr R maintained the policy for the next 10 years but then in 2019 made  a complaint to Lloyds that 
hed been mis-sold it, as hed been led to believe it would have a cash-in value. He was now very 
disappointed to discover it didnt, particularly as hed now paid into it premiums that totalled more than 
the sum assured. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the policy  has been a suitable way in which to meet  Mr Rs 
requirements and that the documentation had made clear that the policy would not have a cash-in 
value at any point.
Mr R then referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator reached a different conclusion  to 
Lloyds and felt that greater consideration shouldve  been  given to the policys affordability and Mr Rs 
lack of any savings. He felt the recommendation shouldve been for Mr R to commit the premiums to a 
savings plan of some  sort. 
Lloyds disagreed. It maintained its view that the policy had been a reasonable means by which to 
meet Mr Rs needs and that the alternative  of saving  the premiums would have left Mr R with the risk 
of not achieving  his desired £5,000 if he was to pass away in the early years of saving.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred  to me to 
review.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, as noted, Ive reached a different conclusion to that 
reached by the investigator. 
I understand there were potential affordability issues for Mr R and he wasnt in a particularly strong 
financial position, as he had so little savings.  But I think its clear  from the documentation that he was 
seeking a way of ensuring that his wife would not be put in a difficult position by funeral costs  I 
would imagine  precisely because his financial situation wasnt strong.  
The Lifetime  Cover policy recommended to him strikes me as a reasonable way to achieve  this 
objective. It was quite  a significant financial  commitment for him, but without making that sort of 
commitment he wasnt  going to be able to achieve  his aim. 
Mr Rs main concern is that he was led to believe that he was paying for a policy that would have a 
cash-in value.  While  I have no reason to doubt his recollections, theres nothing in the documentation 
Ref: DRN85011403that supports this. Its made quite clear that there would not be a cash-in value  and that the policy  was 
being recommended as a protection policy to meet  the costs of funeral  expenses. 
Clearly this has been quite a costly policy, but I think that was driven by Mr Rs status as a smoker 
and the underwriting that increased  the premiums significantly because  of his previous serious  illness. 
I can understand Mr Rs concerns that hes now paid more into the policy  than it will pay out, but that 
is the nature of insurance and this type of policy. 
Ultimately, I dont think Lloyds acted incorrectly  or unreasonably in making the recommendation to 
Mr R given his documented objective. And I think I was made  clear what the policy was and how it 
worked. I recognise he will be very disappointed if he was under the impression that he would now 
have a lump sum available to him. But I cant see that Lloyds can reasonably  be held responsible for 
that impression being created.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently of the view the 
complaint shouldnt  be upheld. 
Ref: DRN8501140