K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC were irresponsible in lending  him money in the form 
of two overdrafts.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2020, a copy of which is attached  as it forms 
part of this final decision.
Lloyds agreed  with my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. I havent received 
any further information or comments from Mr R. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any new information,  but Ive looked at everything again.  I 
havent seen anything which changes my mind  about the appropriate  outcome  here. So my 
findings are unchanged from those set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86210382copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC were irresponsible in lending him money in the form of two 
overdrafts.
background
Mr R had two accounts with Lloyds. In August 2016 he says he was experiencing financial difficulties 
and so he applied for an overdraft of £150 on one of the Lloyds accounts. That was approved. The 
following month  he applied for an overdraft of £400 on the other account. That was also approved.
Two months  later, Mr R successfully applied  to increase the overdraft limit to £500 on the first 
account. Five days later, he applied  to increase the limit on the same account  to £2,000 and to 
increase the limit on the other account to £700. Those applications were  all approved. 
On the same day as the above increases were approved  by Lloyds, Mr R applied again  to increase 
the limit on the first account from the new limit of £2,000 to £3,000.  That was approved. Around  two 
weeks later, Mr R successfully applied to increase the overdraft  limit on the second  account from 
£700 to £2,450. His combined overdraft limit at that point  was therefore  £5,450. 
During 2018,  Mr R was in contact with Lloyds as he was struggling financially, particularly when his 
job became  redundant.  Lloyds froze interest on the accounts for periods of time and refunded some 
charges. Mr R completed an income  and expenditure assessment and a payment  arrangement was in 
place for a period  of time. Ultimately, no new payment plan was agreed and, in early 2019, Lloyds  
transferred Mr Rs accounts to a debt collection agency.
In 2018, Mr R complained  to Lloyds  about the overdrafts. He said Lloyds  didnt carry  out the correct 
affordability checks before  approving them.  He said if theyd done so, they would have seen that he 
was in financial difficulty and had many other creditors. 
All of Mr Rs applications  were made online and he says they were approved very quickly. He says 
that, when he asked for the overdrafts,  the outgoings on his account  significantly  exceeded his 
income, with much of the expenditure being on payday loans. He says Lloyds should have  noticed 
this. He says it was clear  he couldnt afford  to pay back the overdrafts  and he thinks  it was 
irresponsible of Lloyds  to lend him the money.
In particular, Mr R has referred to a previous overdraft he had on one of the accounts in 2011.  He had 
struggled to pay it back and entered  into a Debt Management  Plan. He managed to pay off the 
overdraft over time but says his financial situation has never really improved  since then.  He says hes 
used multiple  payday loans and other forms of borrowing over the years.
Mr R asked Lloyds to write off the outstanding balance on his accounts  and refund the overdraft  fees 
and interest.  He also asked them to remove any adverse data about  the accounts from his credit file.
In their response to the complaint, Lloyds said theyd assessed Mr Rs applications before  approving 
the overdrafts  and increases. They explained that they use credit scoring to decide whether to lend 
money. This gives customers a score based on information the customer  has provided, what  Lloyds 
already know  about the customer  and information  held on the customers credit file.
Lloyds said that not all of Mr Rs borrowing was recorded on his credit file at the time of his 
applications. They explained that some borrowing information,  such  as details of payday loans, often 
isnt available on a credit file at the time of searching because it has often been  repaid in full shortly 
after it was borrowed. They  said they relied on the information provided by Mr R and the credit 
reference agencies. Based  on that information, Lloyds said Mr Rs applications passed their 
assessment process.
Ref: DRN86210383Lloyds acknowledged that Mr R had previously  been on a Debt Management Plan to clear  his original 
overdraft. But they said that it would be unfair  for them  to penalise customers indefinitely  because 
theyd experienced financial difficulties  in the past. And they said that Mr R had never  defaulted on the 
original overdraft as he had kept on top of the monthly repayments.
So Lloyds didnt think theyd done anything wrong by approving the overdrafts. But they refunded all 
interest and charges on both accounts from August 2016 onwards. And they made a further payment 
of £500 to each account.
Mr R wasnt  happy with Lloyds response so he brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
thought that Lloyds had acted fairly  here, so she didnt ask them  to do any more.  But Mr R didnt 
agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
He says it was irresponsible of Lloyds  to disregard his previous Debt  Management  Plan. He also says 
the fact that he made so many requests  over a short  period  of time to increase the overdraft  limits  
should have raised questions.  And Mr R says that there were  several defaults on his credit  file at the 
time he applied for the overdraft increases. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When Mr R applied for the overdrafts,  Lloyds  needed to check whether he would  be able to repay  
them in a way which was sustainable and which  wouldnt adversely affect his financial situation. There 
isnt a set list of checks which Lloyds  had to do. But they needed to carry  out checks which were  
proportionate to things like the size of the overdrafts, Mr Rs lending history,  the information hed 
given Lloyds in his applications and what they already knew about  him. What Id expect  is for them to 
perform enough checks before they lend. Im satisfied they did that here to begin with. And I dont 
think the results  of Lloyds checks suggested  that having the new overdrafts  would make Mr Rs 
financial situation worse. So I dont think it was irresponsible  of Lloyds to grant Mr R the overdrafts  in 
2016.
But when Mr R made multiple  requests to increase the overdraft limits in November 2016, I think it 
should have raised question marks for Lloyds. Having applied for significant  increases to both 
overdraft limits and had them approved, Mr R made further requests for more  credit on the same day. 
At that point, I dont think it was appropriate  for Lloyds  to keep approving  the overdraft  increases 
without carrying  out additional checks and asking  Mr R for more information.  The timing and 
frequency of the requests here should have made Lloyds question Mr Rs situation,  and the 
sustainability of any further lending.
So I think Lloyds should  have  done more checks later on. What I need to consider  next is whether  
additional checks would  have led to a different  outcome. I think its possible that, if Lloyds had carried 
out further checks or sought to verify the information in Mr Rs application, they may have made a 
different decision about whether to extend further credit to him or by how much. But I havent seen 
anything which shows that they definitely would  or should have declined  his later applications. The 
fact that a customer has other debt doesnt always mean a bank should refuse to provide them  with 
credit or that doing so will be unaffordable. 
Lloyds say that not all of Mr Rs borrowing  appeared on his credit file at the time of his applications. 
They may have found out more about  that if theyd made more enquiries at the time.  But I have to 
balance that against the fact that the income figures provided by Mr R in his applications are higher 
than the salary which he says in his complaint letter  he was earning  at the time.
I dont think the fact that Mr R had previously  held an overdraft with Lloyds which hed struggled to 
repay meant they shouldnt have given  him a new overdraft in 2016. Although  hed struggled with the 
Ref: DRN86210384previous overdraft, hed managed the situation proactively by setting up a Debt  Management  Plan 
and ultimately  hed managed to pay back the overdraft without defaulting. Lloyds say they took the 
historical Debt Management Plan into account but the fact it had been in place didnt mean  his new 
application was automatically  declined,  particularly in light of the amount of time which had passed. I 
think thats reasonable. It wouldnt be fair for Lloyds  to reject a customers application  simply because  
theyd had difficulties repaying credit in the past,  especially where  theyd managed  to repay  the debt.
From the information available to me, I cant conclude that the overdrafts  were unaffordable  at the 
time Mr R applied for them. I understand his situation  changed  in 2018 and he has struggled since 
then. But I have to look at the situation at the time Mr R applied for the overdrafts  in 2016. And from 
what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude  that Lloyds acted irresponsibly in approving the applications at 
that time.
Lloyds have already refunded all interest and charges  on both accounts. And theyve made an 
additional payment of £500 to each  account.  I think thats a fair outcome in the circumstances here, 
taking account of the fact that Mr R borrowed and had the benefit  of the money  the overdrafts  
provided. So Im not going to ask Lloyds to do any more.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8621038