K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms R took out in 2019 on the advice and 
recommendation of London and Country  Mortgages Ltd (L&C). Ms R is unhappy that her 
fixed rate deal doesnt run for two full years from completion, but instead has a specified end 
date. To settle the complaint, Ms R would like a refund of the product fee she paid, or for the 
fixed rate deal to be extended so that it runs for the full two years.
background
On 30 August 2018, L&C issued a mortgage illustration (known fully as a key features 
illustration or KFI) for a mortgage of £365,000 plus fees, on an initial deal of 1.54% fixed 
until 30 November 2020, from a lender Ill call H. Ms R applied  for the mortgage, was 
accepted for it, and on 7 November 2018,  H issued its mortgage offer.  This too listed the 
deal as being 1.54% fixed  until 30 November 2020.
Completion of Ms Rs purchase  (and therefore  commencement of the mortgage) was 
delayed until March  2019. Ms R says this means her fixed rate should run until March  2021; 
L&C didnt agree, and nor did H in response  to a separate complaint. When  this complaint 
came to us, our investigator  didnt think L&C had done anything  wrong. Ms R has asked for 
her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, saying that L&C should  have come back to 
her during  the delay period to check if she was still happy with the deal it had recommended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have disappointing  
news for Ms R; I dont think L&C had done  anything wrong  either.
Mortgage deals  typically run for a fixed duration  from the start date or until a specified end 
date. The latter is far more common that the former, and the product L&C recommended  
was the latter. 
Ive considered first of all whether the mortgage  product  was a suitable recommendation in 
the first place. L&Cs  covering letter of 30 August 2018 recorded that Ms R had expressed  a 
preference for a mortgage rate that was fixed for around two years. That being  so, a product 
with a fixed rate running until November 2020  seems to me to have been eminently suitable.
Ive then considered  whether L&C somehow mis-represented to Ms R how the fixed  rate it 
was recommending would work. 
The illustration issued  on 30 August 2018  set out the main  terms of the proposed mortgage, 
in a format prescribed  and approved by the regulator of mortgages,  the Financial Conduct  
Authority. That document  specified that the recommended product would run until 
30 November 2020. The offer that H issued on 7 November 2018 followed broadly  the same  
format, and said exactly the same thing.  
I appreciate that the timing of the mortgage offer meant that the product  end date was two 
years hence;  thats why the offer predicted Ms R would make 24 payments at the fixed  rate. 
But in the equivalent section of the KFI, it said:
Ref: DRN82455312These payments are based on a mortgage  of £365,999 and includes the fees that are 
shown in Section  8 as being  added to your mortgage, and assumes  that the mortgage will 
start on 01 September 2018
27 payments at a fixed  rate of 1.54%
Followed by
273 payments at a variable rate, currently 3.94%
(my emphasis)
In my view, this makes  it apparent that the rate didnt have a fixed  duration but a fixed end 
date. Bearing  in mind  that this complaint is about  what L&C told Ms R, Im not persuaded it 
misled Ms R. In my view,  Ms R should reasonably have understood that the product had a 
fixed end date. Depending on when the mortgage  started,  that could mean it lasting for more 
or fewer than 24 months.
On Ms Rs point about L&C checking to make  sure the deal still suited  her, the covering 
letter of 30 August 2018 invited her to get in touch at any time before completion  if she 
wanted it to conduct such  a check.  Its not something L&C had to prompt  or remind Ms R to 
ask for.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8245531