K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under her 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to CIS, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
Mrs A made a claim under her policy  for the legal costs of pursuing  a personal injury claim 
against her employer. This was declined as her insurer   CIS  wasnt  satisfied the legal 
action had reasonable prospects of succeeding. 
Mrs A brought a complaint to our service  which  was considered separately to this one. But 
we didnt think CIS did anything wrong.  This was because  it was relying on the legal opinion 
of a solicitor when declining cover. And we thought it was fair to rely on this advice.  
In October  2018, Mrs A provided  our service with a barristers opinion  that stated her legal 
action had a 60% chance of being successful. We sent this to CIS and asked that it 
reconsider covering  the claim. 
CIS didnt  agree with the barristers opinion. It raised  concerns that the barrister  wasnt  
independent or suitably  qualified and that her conclusion  was wrong. It raised  further 
queries, which  the barrister responded to, along  with providing the case  law shed relied 
upon. But CIS maintained its rejection of the claim, which  it communicated  to Mrs A in 
January 2019.  
By this time, Mrs A had been  unsuccessful in her court  action. CIS said this further 
confirmed the claim  didnt enjoy reasonable prospects  of being successful. Mrs A submitted 
an appeal. But CIS werent informed of this until sometime later. It said it wouldnt cover it as 
Mrs A hadnt  notified CIS within the time frame set by the policy  terms. And it didnt think any 
appeal would enjoy  reasonable prospects  of success either.
As Mrs A wasnt happy with CIS position  on her claim, she brought  a further complaint to 
our service.  
Our investigator upheld  Mrs As complaint, in part. She said CIS decision to decline the 
claim after receipt of the positive barristers opinion wasnt reasonable. She was satisfied  
that the barrister  was independent and suitably qualified, and there was nothing to suggest 
the advice was obviously wrong. As such,  our service expected CIS to accept  the advice 
given. She also said it wasnt fair to use the benefit of hindsight when determining whether a 
claim had prospects of success. So whilst the court action was unsuccessful, it didnt mean 
the claim didnt have reasonable prospects at the time of the assessment. 
To put things right, our investigator said CIS should reconsider the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And if covered, it should fund the reasonable 
and necessary legal costs  incurred by Mrs A from the end of October 2018  when CIS 
should reasonably have  accepted the claim  until early December 2018   when the legal 
action was unsuccessful  in court. 
She said no funding  needed to be granted  for costs incurred prior to the end of October 
2018. This is because  CIS had reasonable grounds to decline  the claim up until the 
Ref: DRN81580592supportive barristers opinion was provided.  And she allowed a few weeks  for enquiries  and 
agreeing terms of appointment with the solicitors. 
The investigator also recommended that CIS should pay £100 compensation for the delaying 
in providing their decision on the claim because it didnt  inform Mrs A of its position until 
January 2019.
On the issue of the appeal, our investigator  said it wasnt fair to apply the policys  time frame 
of 10 days for Mrs A to notify CIS of the appeal. This was because she was persuaded by 
Mrs As comments that CIS actions had deterred  her from making  further contact. As CIS 
had caused Mrs A to take a particular action,  our service would say CIS should  consider the 
claim as if it had been made in time. 
That said,  CIS obtained a legal opinion  of the appeal  which said it didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of succeeding.  As Mrs A hadnt  provided  a legal opinion to the contrary, our 
investigator was satisfied CIS could rely on the advice it had obtained and decline  cover  for 
the appeal.  
CIS didnt  agree with our investigator.  It wasnt prepared to accept  the barristers  advice  as it 
doesnt believe shes suitably qualified. This is because there  is nothing  on her CV to show  
qualifications or experience in personal injury cases.  It also said the claim was not 
proportionate to pursue based on the amount of costs Mrs A had incurred compared  to the 
value of her claim. 
Mrs A also didnt agree. She wants CIS to pay all her legal costs as she said it intentionally  
delayed making  a decision on cover and its decision to decline the claim was incorrect  and 
unfair. She doesnt  think the £100 compensation recommended adequately reflects  the 
amount of trouble and upset shes been caused.  And she believes her barristers supportive 
opinion can also been applied to the merits of any appeal  as it relates to the same set of 
facts. 
As neither CIS nor Mrs A agreed with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
original claim
CIS initially declined  the claim as it had obtained legal advice from a solicitor who was of the 
opinion that the claim  didnt  enjoy  reasonable prospects of success. As our service  has 
already provided  an answer on this, I wont commenting on it further.  But Mrs A 
subsequently provided a supportive barristers opinion. So Ive thought  about  what CIS 
shouldve done  at this point. 
Our service generally places more weight on a barristers advice over that of a solicitor. 
Thats because barristers  are usually considered specialists in the area of law theyre being 
asked to advise  upon. That having been  said, there are exceptions, so we consider 
complaints that stem from this issue on their own merits. In general terms, if a barrister  is 
Ref: DRN81580593suitably qualified, their opinion is well reasoned,  and theres  nothing  in their advice  that is 
obviously wrong, Id expect CIS to accept the claim.  
CIS has raised concerns that the barrister isnt independent and that she isnt experienced in 
personal injury claims. I accept that her CV doesnt give much detail about specific personal 
injury experience. So I asked for more information about this from the barrister. She 
confirmed, through  Mrs A, that she is experienced in this area of law, that it formed both part 
of her training and her practice.  Shes  also provided some specific examples of the work she 
has undertaken in this field.  Based  on this, Im satisfied that the barrister was suitably  
qualified to give advice  on Mrs As claim. If CIS werent happy with the barristers opinion,  it 
would be entitled  to seek its own. But I dont think it was fair for it to decline cover despite  the 
barristers advice, without  relying on an opinion from a lawyer of equal  standing to the 
contrary. And rather than maintaining the barrister wasnt suitably qualified, I think  CIS 
should have asked, as I did, what her specific  experience was if it was concerned.
CIS has also raised concerns that the claim wasnt proportionate. This is on the basis that 
Mrs A incurred legal  costs far in excess of the value of her claim. But as our investigator 
pointed out, CIS were  only being  asked to provide  cover from October 2019 when the 
supportive barristers opinion was submitted. So I dont think  there was any indication costs  
wouldve been disproportionate from that point  in the proceedings. 
Lastly, CIS has said the fact the claim  was unsuccessful  shows it didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects. But I dont agree. A claim that has reasonable prospects can still lose in the same 
way a claim without reasonable prospects can win. Mrs As barrister  didnt say prospects of 
success were  100%  and that the case would  definitely win. She said they were  reasonable, 
at 51% or above. That gives a 49% margin of loss. And thats  all thats required by the policy 
for funding  to be provided. 
CIS will be aware that a claim  can only be assessed at the point it is made, not with the 
benefit of hindsight. And if all cases were  assessed in that way, it would mean cover would 
also be available for claims  that were  successful after a negative  merits assessment. 
For these reasons, I believe Mrs As claim shouldve  been accepted on receipt  of her 
supportive barristers opinion. This was sent to CIS in mid-October 2018. I agree with our 
investigator that it wouldve taken a couple  of weeks to get cover  in place. This is because  
CIS wouldve needed to agree terms of appointment with the solicitors. So I agree with our 
investigators recommendation that CIS should  cover the legal costs  incurred from the end of 
October 2018 until early  December 2018 when the claim was unsuccessful. 
These legal  costs should be paid at Mrs As solicitors agreed hourly rate. But CIS are 
entitled to have them assessed  by a cost draftsman should it chose  to, in order to ensure 
they were reasonably incurred. If Mrs A has paid her solicitor these costs,  CIS should 
reimburse Mrs A for these and pay her interest at 8% simple per year* from the date she 
paid them until the date CIS reimburse  her. 
appeal
Mrs As policy says there isnt cover  for an appeal  unless the insured person has notified CIS 
in writing of their wish to appeal at least ten working  days before the deadline for the appeal. 
CIS say Mrs A didnt  notified it within that time frame. 
Ref: DRN81580594Im persuaded by Mrs As comments that she hadnt reverted back to CIS about her appeal  
because of the service  shed received  on her original  claim. I think  that given CIS had 
declined cover despite a positive barristers  opinion, it was clear  to Mrs A that she wasnt  
being supported  by CIS in making  her claim. So Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to apply the 
time frame set out within the policy so strictly  in these circumstances. 
That said,  CIS did consider the merits of the appeal. And the advice  it received was that 
prospects were below  51%. So it wouldnt have been in a position  to accept the claim. 
Mrs A says CIS shouldve  accepted her appeal based on her barristers  opinion because the 
advice was given  based on the same facts. But I dont agree. Any legal assessment of the 
appeal would need to take into account  the judgment of the original  claim,  any new evidence 
that arose doing  the case and the grounds for an appeal. So I dont think that a barristers 
opinion of the merits of the original claim are appropriate. 
And as Mrs A didnt  seek to provide a legal opinion of her own to challenge CIS rejection of 
her appeal, I cant say CIS shouldve  done  anything differently in this respect.  
trouble and upset
Our investigator acknowledged  that Mrs A spent unnecessary time having to contact  CIS for 
updates. So she recommended  it pay £100 compensation for the impact this wouldve had. 
Mrs A says this doesnt reflect the amount of trouble and upset shes  been caused by the 
delays and unfair decisions made on her claim.  
I can understand why Mrs A would feel frustrated and disappointed with CIS handling  of her 
claim. But we dont award compensation to fine or punish a business.  And whilst  its a way in 
which to recompense someone for their anguish, in many cases theres  no amount of 
compensation that will undo the trouble and upset theyve been  caused.  We can only award  
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. And in 
Mrs As case, I think £100 is fair.
Ref: DRN81580595my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint in part. And I direct CIS General 
Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs As legal costs incurred from 30 October  2018 until 3 December 2018;
pay 8% simple interest per year* (if Mrs A has paid these costs already) from the 
date she paid it until the date CIS reimburse  her;
pay £100 compensation for her trouble and upset
* I understand that CIS is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs A needs  to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8158059