K822xcomplaint
F, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made  errors  when  dealing  with an 
account application resulting in wasted time and inconvenience.
background 
HSBC agrees that it provided poor service and offered  to pay F £500 in compensation. 
HSBC says that it did give F inconsistent  information, and that it made  a processing error 
resulting in the account being  opened  in error. It said the director  of F would need to visit a 
branch to continue  the application.
Our adjudicator agreed that the delay and time spent in pursuing the application  caused  F 
inconvenience. She said that we couldnt take account of the impact on the director of F 
personally as this was a complaint by the company. She said she thought  that the 
compensation offered was reasonable.
F did not agree.  It said that HSBC  had not provided  full information about what  happened. It 
had offered the minimum to try and diffuse this complaint. The time the director  spent 
caused severe stress and inconvenience  and he had to follow all this up personally. F 
applied for the account in December 2018 and this had still not been resolved by February  
2019. There is no mention  of the number of calls made to the customer  services  team.  F 
said it could have taken  HSBC to court as an alternative to referring this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that our adjudicator asked F to provide  any more  evidence about the calls. F 
thought that HSBC should be required to provide this information.  I have HSBCs case  file 
and its said that calls to its business specialists taken on a mobile  phone  are not recorded. I 
dont doubt Fs account that the director spent the time he says chasing this matter up. 
Thats supported  by a number of emails he sent to HSBC which make reference  to some of 
the calls. Im going to need to make my decision based on whats been provided.
I want to mention a few of the key dates here to provide some  context. F started a first 
application for an account on 5 December 2018. It seems it referred to some overseas  
trading and HSBC  told it that the application needed to be started  again.  F did so on 12 
December 2018  and says it had taken  guidance from HSBC about  this. But HSBC ought to 
have told F then to visit a branch to make the application. Some  further  questions  were 
raised and HSBC was due to speak to the director again on 20 December 2018.  A number 
of promised calls were  not made to F that day and the director started  a complaint for F.
HSBC did not identify that there  were some  inconsistencies between  the two applications. 
And that was even  though  the application had passed a quality control on 28 December 
2018. F found out for itself that the account  was open but complained  that it had not received 
all the other  products it wanted. In particular  it thought it had applied for a commercial card 
already. It made another application for that card on 31 December 2018 which was turned 
down. 
Ref: DRN85708292F was told by HSBC on 4 January 2019  that the account could not be operational because of 
the questions  and inconsistencies about its possible overseas trading and income. This is a 
key complaint point  for F especially as it needed  the account in place in time for a business 
trip by the director that month. It seems that as a result of the trip the director  was not able to 
attend an offered  appointment in branch  on 17 January  2019.  An appointment on 14 
February 2019 was offered along  with the compensation of £500.
It seems  that F made banking arrangements elsewhere and from what HSBC  says has 
decided not to pursue the application.
I dont see that HSBC is disputing what F has said about  what  happened. It clearly accepts 
that F was caused  inconvenience due to the errors. The issue  here is the amount of 
compensation that is reasonable.  
As our adjudicator has said I cant take account  of the impact for the director.  F is a separate  
legal entity and it cannot suffer distress. I also dont know whether HSBC would have agreed 
to open an account had F been  given  the correct information about the process  in the first 
place. Nor do I know how long that would reasonably have taken. 
Having said that F was caused inconvenience and the director spent time on its behalf 
following this up. We dont tend to award compensation for units of time but look at the 
overall impact. Thats what  Im going  to be doing  here. I have also taken account of our 
published guidelines about compensation. I know the director will be disappointed when I 
say that the compensation already offered is in my view reasonable. So Im not going  to be 
requiring HSBC to pay anything more than this. If F does not accept my decision it remains  
free to pursue this through court proceedings, as it has mentioned, subject to any relevant 
time limits.
my final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made  an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think  
the offer is fair in all the circumstances.  My decision is that HSBC  UK Bank  Plc should do 
what its offered to and which is to pay F a total of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8570829