K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave her loans that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mrs P was given four loans by Uncle Buck between July 2014 and February 2015. Mrs P 
successfully repaid her first two loans as planned.  She wasnt  able to repay her third loan on 
the agreed date so she deferred her repayment  for a month by paying some  additional 
interest. Mrs Ps final loan was due to be repaid in three monthly instalments. After paying  
the first instalment Mrs P got in touch with Uncle Buck to say she was experiencing financial  
difficulties. As a result she has been making small  monthly repayments  to Uncle Buck  and a 
balance remains outstanding on her last loan.  A summary of Mrs Ps borrowing from 
Uncle Buck  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 28/07/2014 28/08/2014 £ 300
2 28/08/2014 26/09/2014 £ 500
3 26/09/2014 28/11/2014 £ 500
4 27/02/2015 - £ 500
Mrs Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that the 
checks Uncle Buck did before agreeing  the first loan had been sufficient. But she thought 
Uncle Buck  should  have  done more checks before agreeing the remaining loans. And she 
thought that better checks would have shown  Uncle  Buck  that the last two loans  were  
unaffordable for Mrs P. So she asked Uncle Buck to pay Mrs P some compensation.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs P accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether 
Mrs P could afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs P was borrowing, and her lending history, 
but there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mrs P. Before agreeing 
each loan it asked  her for details of her income,  and her normal expenditure. And 
Uncle Buck  says it checked  Mrs Ps credit file before  each loan. Although I have only seen 
the results of the checks before the first and last loans, I think  that Uncle  Buck should have 
been aware that Mrs P might have  been borrowing from other short  term lenders at the 
Ref: DRN84268822same time. But they dont  suggest that Mrs P was having any problems managing  her 
borrowing with no adverse information  such as defaults or late payments being shown.
I think that the checks Uncle Buck did before agreeing the first loan were  sufficient.  The 
amount that Mrs P asked to borrow was relatively  modest compared to her declared income. 
And the repayment  she needed to make  the following  month appeared to be easily 
affordable based  on what  shed said about  her disposable income.  At this early stage of its 
relationship with Mrs P I think  it was reasonable for Uncle  Buck to rely on the information she 
provided. And that suggested the loan was affordable.
On the same  day that Mrs P repaid her first loan she asked to borrow again. And the amount 
she asked to borrow had increased significantly.  Her repayment would take up a significant 
part of the income  shed  declared. So given this, and that Mrs Ps credit file suggested she 
might be borrowing from other short term lenders, I think Uncle  Buck should have done more  
checks. Although  I still think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to base its affordability 
assessment on information that Mrs P provided,  I think it should have asked her some  very 
specific questions about any other  short term loans that she was already  committed  to 
repaying.
Mrs P asked for her third loan on the same day she repaid her second.  And it was for a 
similarly large amount. This was her third request in less than two months. I think  at this 
point Uncle  Buck should have realised that it could no longer safely rely on the information 
Mrs P was providing about  her circumstances. At this stage I think Uncle  Buck should have 
taken steps to independently  check the true state of Mrs Ps finances.
Mrs P wasnt  able to repay  her third loan when  it was originally due. So she deferred her 
repayment for a month by paying some additional  interest. There was then a gap of around  
three months before she asked to borrow  again. But given  what  had gone before, and that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  known that Mrs P was using other short  term lenders, I dont think 
that gap was sufficient to give Uncle Buck any confidence that Mrs Ps finances were now 
back on track. So I think it should  have verified Mrs Ps true financial  position before 
agreeing this loan too.
But although  I dont  think the checks Uncle Buck did from loan 2 onwards were sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt mean that Mrs Ps complaint should succeed.  Id also need  to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown Uncle  Buck 
that Mrs P couldnt sustainably afford  the loans. So Ive looked  at Mrs Ps bank statements, 
and what shes told us about her financial situation,  to see what better checks  would have 
shown Uncle  Buck.
Uncle Buck  hasnt provided us with details of what Mrs P declared about her expenditure 
when she applied for the second loan. But I think it more likely than not that it would have 
been similar  to what she said a month earlier when she applied for the first loan. At that time 
she told Uncle Buck that she had £1,642  left over each month that she could use to repay 
her borrowing.  
From her bank statements I can see that when  she asked for her second loan Mrs P was 
already committed to repaying just over £600 to other short term lenders. But as her 
repayment on this loan was around  £650 I think Uncle Buck  would have considered it 
affordable even if it had included  this short term lending expenditure alongside what  Mrs P 
had declared about  her other outgoings. So I dont think Uncle Buck  was wrong  to give this 
loan to Mrs P.
Ref: DRN84268823But if Uncle Buck  had independently checked  Mrs Ps financial situation  before agreeing  the 
last two loans  it would have seen that Mrs P couldnt sustainably  afford  to repay  them. 
Mrs Ps expenditure on her normal living costs was much higher than she declared to the 
lender. And she was also committed  to making large  repayments  on a number of longer term 
credit arrangements  such as credit  cards and a personal loan. And she continued to borrow 
from other short term lenders in ever increasing  amounts.
If Uncle Buck had done what  I consider  to be proportionate checks  before agreeing the final 
two loans I think it would have seen that they were  unaffordable  for Mrs P. So, as a 
responsible lender, I think it should  have declined these requests. Uncle  Buck needs to pay 
Mrs P some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mrs P after, and including, the loan 
that she took on 26 September 2014  (loan  3). So for each of those  loans Uncle Buck  should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs P on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ps credit  file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
It seems  Mrs P still owes  Uncle  Buck some of the principal balance she borrowed on her 
final loan. Uncle Buck may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. But, to be 
clear, that outstanding  balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, 
but taking account of any repayments Mrs P has made on that loan as though  they were 
applied against  the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8426882