K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way Kindertons Ltd (Kindertons) dealt with his car insurance claim 
following an incident  involving his car. 
background 
Kindertons were instructed in October 2017 to deal with Mr Rs car insurance claim, 
including repair and providing him with a hire car. The repairs  to Mr Rs car were completed 
through his own insurance, and his car returned  to him in November. Mr R sent his receipt 
for the policy excess to Kindertons so that this could be refunded  to him. 
Mr R contacted Kindertons in December asking for an update  on when his claim would be 
settled, and the policy excess repaid. Kindertons explained that they were  still trying to get 
more information  about the circumstances of the incident. 
Kindertons continued  to contact the third party insurer  (TPI)  for more  evidence so that the 
claim could  be settled.  It looks like enquiries took longer than expected  because  there were 
concerns with whether the TPI would cover the claim. Kindertons  were waiting for the TPI to 
obtain a police report to help with their investigation. 
Whilst Kindertons enquiries  were on-going Mr R contacted them  several times to ask for an 
update, as he hadnt heard anything. When an update was asked  for, it was generally 
provided on time.
In July 2018 Kindertons received confirmation that the other car involved in the incident  was 
stolen. Kindertons told Mr R that his claim had been  sent to the Motor  Insurance Bureau  
(MIB) to be dealt with. It was also explained  that It usually takes about 4 weeks for them to 
set up a claim and then they will start their enquiries.
On 4 December  Mr R contacted Kindertons for an update and was told that MIB had 
accepted his claim, and the file was closed. Kindertons told Mr R to email  his excess  receipt  
so that this could  be passed to the MIB for review.  In February 2019 Kindertons received  
confirmation from the MIB that Mr Rs excess had been refunded.  
Mr R complained to Kindertons about  the way theyd handled his claim,  specifically about the 
lack of updates,  and having to chase for the refund  of his premium  excess. Kindertons said 
they could have done things better, and offered £50 in recognition  of their poor service. Mr R 
was unhappy  with this amount.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies.  
The investigator found that the claim could have been  handled  better, but the offer made by 
Kindertons was fair. Mr R disagreed with this saying that the compensation amount should  
be more. This is because of the lack of contact,  and delay in him receiving  his excess  
premium refund. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved, it was passed to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 August 2019  saying that I uphold this complaint, and 
that Kindertons  should pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused 
by their handling of his claim. Kindertons didnt  provide any further comments. Mr R provided  
Ref: DRN82569402additional comments, which Ive addressed in my final decision. The findings below are 
largely repeated  from my provisional  decision,  with the addition of my response  to Mr Rs 
additional comments. 
In response to the provisional decision Mr R also complained about the number of case 
handlers he had to deal with at Kindertons.  Our DISP Rules  set out the requirements which 
must be met before we can look at a complaint. Our DISP Rules  can be accessed  in full from 
our website. We can only determine complaints which a business  had the opportunity to look 
at first. In line with our DISP Rules Mr Rs complaint about the number of case  handlers is 
not something we can look at, at this time. Because of this Ive not addressed the comments 
made in relation to this complaint as part of this final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Rs complaint largely relates to the lack of contact from Kindertons during his claim, and 
failure to recover the excess refund in good  time. Its not disputed  that Kindertons could have 
done things better. The dispute between Mr R and Kindertons now relates  to the award  of 
compensation that should be paid by Kindertons  in recognition of what  went wrong.  
The first point in the process which Mr R has complained about  relates  to the information  he 
was given about the whereabouts of his car when it was taken to the garage  for repairs.  
Mr R thought Kindertons  were handling the transfer  of his car to a repairer, but when he 
called them, Kindertons  couldnt confirm where his car was.  
Kindertons had arranged  for Mr Rs car to be collected but before this happened,  Mr Rs car 
was picked up by an agent instructed by his insurer.  I accept the communication about  this 
could have been clearer. Given the short length  of time between  Mr Rs insurer  arranging for 
collection of Mr Rs car, and Kindertons being made aware by Mr R of this, I dont think 
Kindertons actions were  wrong. They had arranged  for pick-up of Mr Rs car, and it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to have not known of the insurer  actions given the short timescale. 
In response to the provisional decision Mr R said that Kindertons didnt contact him about his 
car until he contacted  them. I accept that this was the case. But looking at the short  
timescale overall, and the different parties involved in the process, whilst I acknowledge 
things could have  gone more smoothly, I dont think Kindertons actions were wrong. So I 
wont be recommending  compensation  for this part of Mr Rs complaint. 
Ive seen that Mr Rs claim with Kindertons took longer than expected to settle because of 
issues with finding  out how Kindertons would  recover their costs, and who this should be 
pursued against. Ive seen that in December 2017, Mr R was told that advised TPI are yet to 
provide us with an update regarding liability therefore no payments will be made until liability  
has been received  - client understands. I think Kindertons reasonably made  Mr R aware that 
before a claim could  be made, liability would need to be confirmed. 
Ive seen that Kindertons were  continually in contact with the TPI to investigate liability,  and 
try and settle  the claim.  I think Kindertons could  have done more  to contact Mr R during this 
time, even  if it was just to update him that they were still waiting for a response from the TPI. 
Ref: DRN82569403This wouldve helped  manage Mr Rs expectations  on his claim. By taking  a more proactive 
approach, it also wouldve  meant  that the issue regarding Mr Rs excess premium  claim 
could have been dealt with sooner. Kindertons have  also confirmed a call back  request in 
May 2018 wasnt responded to. I think this would have added to Mr Rs frustrations. 
In looking at what fair compensation should  be, Ive considered  the impact on Mr R. Ive 
seen that he contacted Kindertons for updates. Most but not all of his contacts were  
responded to within a reasonable time.  There wasnt much  to update Mr R on because the 
excess could only be refunded once the claim had settled, and the delays on this were 
beyond Kindertons control. But I do think the communication with Mr R could have been 
more frequent  to avoid Mr R having to chase  Kindertons  each time.  
Kindertons have said that due to an administrative error, Mr R wasnt  provided with 
information about how to reclaim his premium excess until he contacted  them chasing this. It 
looks like the actions  taken by Kindertons once they became aware,  were  prompt.  But I think 
it would  have caused upset and frustration  to Mr R as he had to chase this and without his 
prompt the premium excess may not have been paid.
The investigator recommended  £50 compensation in recognition  of the things that went 
wrong in the handling  of Mr Rs claim.  Ive taken on board the contacts Mr R had to make to 
find out what was happening with his claim,  but Ive balanced this with the information he 
was told early in the process, in that the excess premium would only be refunded  once the 
claim had settled. Kindertons shouldve done more  to reach  out to Mr R once his claim had 
been concluded. Because they didnt, Mr R excess  premium refund remained an unresolved 
part of the claim, and was only put right after Mr R reached out to Kindertons. With this in 
mind, I think  a remedy of £150  is fair compensation for this complaint. 
In response to the provisional decision Mr R commented that he had to raise  the issue of the 
excess with Kindertons several times. From review of the case notes, I agree that Mr R did 
do this, and sent Kindertons a copy of his excess receipt on at least two occasions.  
Kindertons agreed  that they could have handled  things  better.  I think  the compensation Ive 
recommended of £150 is fair. This recognises that Mr R was caused trouble and upset 
because of the additional time he had to spend  dealing with the excess claim issue. 
Kindertons did act promptly when  Mr R sent his excess voucher in December 2018.  So 
overall I think the compensation directed in my provisional decision is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Kindertons Ltd should pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused 
by their handling of his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8256940