K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained  about her home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc in 
relation to both emergency assistance  and a repair claim  she made to it when she found a 
water leak at her home.
background
Mrs B had a leak from a radiator in her home on 25 November  2017. RSA provides her 
buildings and contents insurance and home  emergency cover in one policy.
On 25 November RSA attended and switched off some other radiators in the home which  
lessened the flow from the leaking pipe.  They  said someone  would return  on Monday. On 
the Monday a repairer tried to further stem  the leak and said hed be back  on Wednesday  to 
repair the pipe.  On Wednesday he didnt arrive, so Mrs B called RSA.  It then told her shed 
have to get the leak fixed.
Mrs B was daunted  by this task. She found  it difficult to find someone available. The leak 
was fixed on 5 December  2017. It was then 11 December before RSA returned  to remove 
the sodden carpet and set up driers.  The property was then dry just before  Christmas  and 
repairs were due to start in the New Year.  It was the end of January before the carpet fitters 
attended. And the end of February 2018  before the carpet was fitted, leaving the room finally 
restored.
Mrs B complained to RSA. Shed been  unhappy  during the claim about  having to pay £70 for 
the repair of the pipe, shed also had to do some reinstatement work herself when this wasnt  
all completed by RSAs  contractor. Shed had to use electric heaters for an extended period 
and make lots of phone calls. She said shed been utterly  miserable and depressed during
all of this, as well as often very cold; having to rely on spending time with friends and family 
to use their warmth and showering facilities. Mrs B felt, if handled properly, this should  
reasonably have been resolved within a couple of weeks. She felt thoroughly let down.
RSA acknowledged  it could have done  some things better. It said it would pay:
£43.74 for electricity  used by the driers.
£100 for Mrs Bs costs  and time in completing its repair.
£210 as a disturbance allowance for the time without  heating and hot water.
£150 compensation.
When our investigator asked RSA about  the £70 leak repair,  RSA said it might have paid this 
if it had been asked to do so. But it didnt think we should include consideration of that sum 
within this complaint as Mrs B hadnt told it she was complaining about this aspect. It said, 
strictly speaking,  it didnt think the sum was covered by the policy because it hadnt 
authorised the repair under the home  emergency  cover (and the buildings  cover repairs  
damage but not the leak itself).
Our investigator felt RSA should pay the £70 bill as it should have organised the repair as 
part of the home emergency work. But the investigator felt that the £360 RSA had paid (£210 
for disturbance and £150  compensation) equated  to adequate compensation for what  Mrs B 
had been through.
Ref: DRN80365182RSA and Mrs B asked  for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint  was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision because, in my view, disturbance  allowance is separate to 
compensation for distress  and inconvenience, and regarding the latter  RSA hasnt paid 
enough to account for the upset its failures caused Mrs B. I also felt I could consider the £70 
bill and felt that RSA should pay it. I explained my provisional findings:
cost to repair the leak
I think Mrs B was unhappy  about  this during the claim and, from RSAs call notes, I think  she 
did communicate that to it. RSA records that Mrs B told the loss adjuster that she didnt want  
to pay for this work  and that the adjuster was considering covering the cost to appease her. 
RSA knows that any expression of dissatisfaction should be treated as a complaint for 
purposes of the industry complaint procedures. So Im satisfied that this part of Mrs Bs 
dissatisfaction, regarding what happened does reasonably  fall for consideration as part of
this complaint. As such I have considered RSAs liability for it.
It is normally the case that buildings insurance wont cover the cost of repairing a leak.  Home 
emergency cover doesnt always  cover  this ether.  Here though there  are notes on RSAs  file 
from the home emergency  team  which state  they would repair the pipe but believed the leak 
was situated below  the floor. It is unclear  where they got this idea from. But the home 
emergency team dont  carry  out trace and access work, meaning they couldnt dig up the
floor to find the leak, so they refused the repair on that basis.
Mrs B went from understanding the leak was going to be repaired, to being told shed have 
to do it herself. She took action and arranged  that. Its true RSA,  as part of the home 
emergency cover, didnt  authorise the work   but that was because it had refused to do it. So 
it isnt fair in my view to say it can reasonably decline the cost because  it hadnt authorised it.
The home emergency cover will provide permanent repairs depending on cost.  As the pipe 
repair only cost Mrs B £70, and arguably would have cost RSA less, I think but for the 
confusion about  where the leak was situated,  Mrs B would have had a repair  carried out 
under the policy.  RSA then fairly  needs to reimburse her cost incurred for that now, plus 
interest* from 5 December 2017,  the date Mrs B had the work done until settlement is made.
disturbance allowance
Disturbance allowance is paid regarding extra costs incurred when a policyholder lives in an 
uninhabitable home. RSA assessed that for Mrs B at £210. I think  thats reasonable.
I havent seen that Mrs B incurred more than this.
compensation for distress  and inconvenience
RSA has paid £150 so far. Mrs Bs account of the situation shows  how worried and upset 
she was. Even more so as it appeared the house  wouldnt be reinstated  before Christmas, 
and then into the New Year  when the repairs became strung out again.
I also understand from what  Mrs B has said that she was embarrassed by having  to rely so 
much on her friends and family for help and to rely on their goodwill. I think  this added to the 
suffering Mrs B has described experiencing regarding how cold she often was during the 
time with no heating. From what shes said its clear she felt left to deal with something  that 
shed reasonably expected would be sorted  out professionally, quickly and without any 
added hassle or aggravation to her. I think RSA failed her in this.
Ref: DRN80365183The damage Mrs B suffered was relatively minor, and her home  as a whole wasnt affected. 
Apart from during  the period where  there was no heating, and that was a relatively  short 
time. I have  to bear that in mind given some of the extreme cases we see and the 
compensation we find fair and reasonable in those  circumstances. But Im also mindful of the 
upset and inconvenience Ive detailed here  and I think  that was significant  even given  the 
limited damage and time period  in question.
Putting all that together, Im satisfied  that total compensation  of £400 is due in this instance. 
That means that RSA will have to pay Mrs B an additional £250.
I know  Mrs B feels the fact that RSA didnt pay for her to stay elsewhere should  be factored 
in  meaning she gets greater compensation. But that isnt a factor  I can reasonably take into 
account in my award. Just because a saving has been made  doesnt  mean  that saving  or 
any portion of it should reasonably be paid out in compensation. Rather, as Ive said, we 
look at what  was suffered  and award compensation for that.
RSA said it had paid the disturbance allowance as a gesture; it wasnt  really due because 
the home wasnt uninhabitable.  It asked that I, therefore, consider  this as a compensation 
payment. 
Mrs B said £250 compensation is inadequate given what  she had suffered. Particularly  as 
she had trusted the retail  insurer  that shed purchased the policy  from to provide a good 
emergency service. Mrs B said that without an increased compensation award shed feel the 
insurer had won.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that RSA now says the disturbance allowance  wasnt  really due. But its loss 
adjuster felt it was at the time. And it made an offer to Mrs B which  she accepted.  Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to change the terms of that now.  Id also question RSAs view that 
a home  for an elderly person without heating and hot water  is habitable.
With regret for any disappointment this causes to Mrs B though,  I wont  be increasing  my 
award. RSA has paid £150 compensation already  (separately to the £210 disturbance 
allowance). So my total compensation  award is £400 (£250 plus the £150 already paid).
Mrs B may not feel this is adequate  but I am satisfied  it is fair and reasonable. My awards 
arent designed to punish  insurers  or to make them change the way they do business. I have 
noted what Mrs B went through and how she felt as a result of RSAs  failures.  If her situation 
had been different then I likely wouldnt  have  awarded as much compensation as I have. 
I cant comment on the retail insurer  whilst it sold the policy  to Mrs B, RSA underwrites the 
cover it provides. As such it is the one responsible  for claims.  In this case it failed Mrs B. It 
should have handled things better and shouldnt have left her in the position it did. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to pay Mrs B:
Ref: DRN80365184£70 as reimbursement of her cost incurred  to repair  the leak, plus interest* from
5 December 2017 until settlement is made.
£250 compensation, in addition to the £150 it has already paid (my total award being 
£400).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to 
Mrs B, it should tell her how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8036518