K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited didnt fairly deal with a claim 
he made under his car insurance policy. 
All references in my decision  to Calpe as the lead insurer  for Mr Ss policy include its agents.
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  with Calpe in January  2019.  Unfortunately in February  
2019 he was involved in an incident  with another car. Mr S admitted fault for the incident as 
he collided into the rear of another car. 
Mr S complained that Calpe didnt agree to repair his car and instead  settled the claim as a 
total loss. He wanted Calpe to repair his car and remove  the Category N (non structural  
damage) marker.
Calpe cancelled Mr Ss policy  because it said he didnt co-operate with it. Mr S was paying 
for his car under a finance agreement. But he didnt want to give Calpe the agreement 
number to allow Calpe to settle the claim with the finance company. He didnt think  it was fair 
that he had no say in the process. But Calpe said because the finance company owned  the 
car, it was obliged to pay the settlement to them. 
Mr S was very unhappy  about this as he didnt think it was fair that he owed a years 
premium. He wanted Calpe to repair  his car so that he could instead continue  to pay the 
monthly finance repayments. 
Mr S asked us to look at things for him. Our investigator thought that Calpe had acted 
reasonably. It had reports from Mr Ss garage and its own engineer who confirmed  it was 
uneconomical to repair  Mr Ss car. 
Mr S provided an estimate from a garage which was lower than previous reports. But the 
investigator said Calpes  decision  was reasonable. 
Mr S disagrees with the engineer reports,  the amount Calpe valued his car at, the salvage 
deduction it took and the way it handled  the claim. He said hes given his reasons why he 
didnt provide the finance agreement number. 
Mr S wants  an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr S will be disappointed  
with my decision, but Ill explain  why Ive decided not to uphold his complaint.
When Mr S bought his policy with Calpe, he agreed to enter into a contract  with it. The policy 
booklet which Calpe sent to Mr S at the time set out the terms of the agreement.  
Its not unusual  for insurers to decide  a vehicles uneconomical to repair once the repair 
costs reach  around  60-70% of its pre-accident market value. The categorisation of salvage  is 
a matter of professional opinion. 
Ref: DRN82025812Ive looked at two reports  provided by different garages: both estimated the costs to repair 
Mr Ss car at around £12,000.  The market value  Calpe decided for Mr Ss car was £18,000. 
So the repair  costs  were around  67% of the market value. This means Calpe was entitled to 
decide not to repair  Mr Ss car.
Mr Ss policy  with Calpe  says the market value is the most it will pay in the event of a claim. 
It defines market value as the cost of replacing  Mr Ss car with one of the same make, 
model and specification, taking into account  the age, mileage and condition. It says it will rely 
on an engineer  for advice  and refer to market  valuing guides. 
The market  value settlement of £18,000 was above  the average  we found when we looked 
at the main motor trade guides. So I think Calpe  reached its valuation reasonably. 
Mr S provided an estimate to repair his car from another garage in June 2019. This estimate 
was below 60% of the market value. Mr S said it therefore made it economical for Calpe to 
repair his car. But Calpe by then had settled the claim with the finance  company. 
Mr Ss policy  also says that if his car belongs to someone else,  or is under a hire purchase 
or leasing agreement,  Calpe  will settle  the claim with the legal owner. I understand Mr S 
didnt want to provide  details  of the agreement he had with the finance company - because 
he wanted to have say in the process. He didnt agree with the valuation or the fact that 
Calpe wouldnt agree to repair his car. But I think Calpe was entitled to look to settle the 
claim with the legal owner.  Mr Ss policy says if Mr S fails to send Calpe information or 
documents which hinder its ability to process  the claim, it will cancel the policy. So I think 
Calpe acted reasonably here. 
As Mr S has retained the car, Calpe took a salvage deduction from the settlement it paid the 
finance company.  Mr S is unhappy with the amount. It equates to just under  35% of the 
market value. This is within the range  Ive seen other motor insurers  charge. Its common for 
motor insurer to benefit from commercial rates with salvage agents. So I think  this sum 
reflects the fee Calpe would have  otherwise  obtained from a salvage agent when it arranged  
disposal of Mr Ss car. 
Mr S said hes accruing daily storage charges for where his car is being held. But the garage  
has told him it wont charge him any storage charges if it repairs  his car. 
Mr Ss policy  doesnt provide cover in respect of storage charges. But it says that if his car is 
a total loss, Calpe can get it moved  to a place of free and safe storage  as soon as possible - 
but Mr S will be liable for any storage costs incurred to that point. Mr S didnt  agree  for Calpe 
to move his car. So I cant hold Calpe responsible for any storage charges  he may have 
incurred. 
Because Calpe  settled  Mr Ss claim as a total loss, this means his full years premium is due 
as its met its responsibilities under  the policy. This isnt an unusual term as its one Ive 
come across  in all motor insurance policies  Ive seen. This term applies even if Mr S has 
agreed to pay his yearly  premium in monthly instalments. 
I know Mr S is very upset and doesnt  agree with the way Calpe settled his claim. But I think  
it acted reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think  it needs to do any more.  
Ref: DRN82025813my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8202581