K820x#14complaint
Mr H says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr H applied for a credit  card in April 2002 and the PPI was also sold at this time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr H disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr H, RBS shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got Mr Hs agreement to take it out.  As the credit card and PPI were taken out 
during a meeting, I dont know what was discussed. Where I have limited  information about a 
sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the information and evidence  I 
have seen.
RBS has given us a copy of the application form that was completed at the time of sale. On 
this I can see there  is a separate section called  Card Payment Protection and a tick has 
been placed next to a statement describing  the PPI. This box could also have been  left 
empty if Mr H did not want the cover. I dont know what was discussed at the time Mr H took 
out the card, but I wouldve expected Mr H to read over the form and raise any questions he 
had at the time before signing  it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr H knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might
not recall this now, as the sale took place  many years ago.
Ref: DRN88274982Mr H says RBS advised  him to take out the PPI. Ive looked at the complaint  as though RBS 
gave him advice as this means it shouldve made sure the policy  was right for him. Based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time the PPI was sold, I think it was. I say this 
because:
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Hs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed  to.
Mr Hs told us he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. The PPI 
couldve been of use to Mr H as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on 
the card for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work  due to illness  or if he was made 
redundant. This wouldve  been  on top of any employer benefits  he wouldve got, 
meaning he wouldve  been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
RBS has told us the PPI wouldve cost Mr B 75p per £100  of his outstanding monthly 
balance. I havent seen anything to suggest  this wasnt affordable to Mr H.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr H, RBS also shouldve given him clear
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether to
take it out. I dont  know what  steps RBS took to do this and its possible some  things
werent explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont  think  clearer  information
wouldve changed Mr Hs decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same
reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Ive also thought about everything Mr H has said, including his comments that his wife 
wouldve helped him had he needed it. Whilst I dont  doubt it wouldve been the intention of 
family to help, this assistance cant be guaranteed and it would depend on the familys 
circumstances at the time. So these points dont change my decision.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN88274983my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8827498