K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey) mis-sold Mr M and Miss R 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M and Miss R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why:
I think Santander made Mr M and Miss R aware that the PPI was optional, but that they 
still chose to take it. This is reflected in the document in which Santander  recommended  
the PPI.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr M and Miss R, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr M and Miss R received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings.  
This all would have  put Mr M and Miss R in a more secure position, if they eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think  the PPI would have 
been potentially  useful. 
Santander probably could have explained  better  the costs and benefits  of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr M and Miss R took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr M and Miss R would have been affected by any of these.  Its likely  they 
were eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying  for it monthly,  so they could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN84021062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8402106