K822xcomplaint
Ms E and Mr N complain  about the way that Public Loss  Adjusting Group Ltd (PLA)  dealt 
with the management of their insurance claim for fire damage to their home.
background
In October  2016 Ms E and Mr N unfortunately had a fire at their home while  they were away. 
When they returned PLA approached them (having been in contact with Ms Es mother). 
They agreed that PLA could act for them and signed  a mandate accordingly.
PLA corresponded with the loss adjusters (G) appointed by the insurer (A). A accepted  
liability quite  quickly and a site visit took place.  PLA then advised G that it wanted to appoint  
a surveyor it had chosen to act on behalf  of Ms E and Mr N
G refused,  and there followed  a long stand-off when PLA refused to progress the matter or 
allow access to the site until the surveyor could  be agreed. G then agreed on instructions 
from A to consider the appointment  of PLAs surveyor  if details of their qualifications and 
suitability were put forward. When G reviewed that information it indicated that A wouldnt 
agree as the proposed  surveyor  wasnt registered with the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS).
After further argument  PLA put forward its proposed structural  engineer whose firm was 
RICS registered to be the main surveyor for the project. This was agreed by early April 2017. 
PLA then agreed  the cost for site clearance  with G and arranged for this to be carried  out. 
Payment for the contents was also agreed around  this time.
At this stage (PLA says) G first put forward the figure it believed the property should have 
been insured for. PLA responded with Ms E and Mr Ns actual calculations which theyd 
used following the Building Cost Information  Service (BCIS) index. The parties couldnt 
agree and PLA made a formal complaint to A. Subsequently, in early  August 2017, G offered 
a settlement of £350,000 which PLA and Ms E and Mr N thought  to be insufficient.
It was decided to go ahead with a schedule  of works  to be provided by PLAs  surveyor and 
then to put the job out to tender. Ms E and Mr N then lodged a complaint against A with this 
service concerning the underinsurance and the delays.
The tender process  took some time  the tenders  were received and analysed by the end of 
November 2017.  It was apparent that the cost of repairs/rebuilding  was going to be 
considerably more than the sum insured (at that stage thought  to be £515,000). PLA 
suggested that A pay a settlement of £750,000 and Ms E and Mr N pay the back premiums  
to reflect  the higher insured value.
A rejected this approach  in January 2018. It confirmed that it would  apply averaging to the 
settlement  ie a reduction in the settlement proportionate to the lower premiums  paid.  This 
brought about an offer of £448,000.  PLA advised  Ms E and Mr N that the maximum pay-out 
they could achieve would  be the policy limit of £515,000. It proposed  putting  that figure to G 
along with a request for an extra £15-20,000  to reflect the delays.
Ms E and Mr N became concerned that PLA was attempting to agree a settlement which 
might prejudice their complaint with this service. They also complained that PLA didnt offer 
other avenues to pursue to get more than their policy limit. For those  reasons  they 
Ref: DRN84437762terminated their instruction to PLA in February 2018. They agreed a settlement of PLAs fees 
at just over £30,000, which they paid.
Subsequently our adjudicator spoke  to A who indicated  that it was willing  to pay a cash 
settlement to Ms E and Mr N. A advised  that the policy  was in fact index linked meaning that 
the policy limit had increased for two years  up to the date of the claim. A agreed it wouldnt 
apply averaging, and offered settlement of the insured amount after increasing  for 
indexation; £555,000, plus the cost of alternative accommodation. Ms E and Mr N referred a 
complaint to this service  about PLA. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought PLA was responsible for some delay 
over the appointment of a surveyor,  and should  have obtained the correct policy wording. It 
was also careless in sending an email to the wrong company. For those failings I proposed 
that it pay compensation of £250.
Ms E and Mr N said that PLA were aware  early on in the claim that its proposed surveyor 
didnt have the necessary  qualification. But that because it had a close relationship with its 
proposed surveyor, it still continued to try to get A to agree to the appointment. They  felt that 
was acting against their interests.
They further said that PLA not obtaining the correct policy  wording prejudiced their position.  
They pointed out that PLA told them that As maximum liability  was the original policy  limit of 
£515,000. Had they continued to instruct PLA they would have received a pay-out of less 
than they were entitled to. They point out that A was only ever prepared to offer a maximum 
pay out of £448,000 whilst PLA was acting, over £100,000 less than the ultimate pay-out.  
They felt that PLAs conduct of their claim fell well below  the standards  expected  and whilst 
it may have  arranged clear-out and a surveyor they believe it received a referral  fee from the 
clearance company  and may also have done from the surveyor. They feel that a partial 
refund of the fees is fair.
PLA had no further comment  to make following my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
appointment of PLA
Ms E and Mr N believe that PLA turned up at their home having monitored  the fire brigades  
twitter feed. They were on holiday at the time but PLAs representative was told Ms Es 
mother lived nearby  and went there. They  feel it took advantage of their situation and 
pressured them into signing  a contract.  They also feel that PLA turned then against A.
PLA cant or wont say how it became aware  of the fire apart from referring  to social media. 
It believes it acted fairly  and respectfully, and agreed a contract  with Ms E and Mr N. They 
negotiated a reduction in the percentage fee. It gave them time to decide if they wanted to 
use its services.
Ref: DRN84437763The difficulty  is that loss assessors specialise in managing insurance claims. These will 
inevitably happen at a time when the customer is vulnerable and upset. From my review of 
all the papers in this case, although Ms E and Mr N were frustrated at the delays and in 
particular with As attitude to the underinsurance, they were mostly happy  with PLAs work 
on their behalf. Ill deal with this in more detail below, but I dont think it can be said that PLA 
unfairly turned Ms E and Mr N against  A or G
As for the initial approach,  unless PLA acted  in breach of the code of conduct of the 
Chartered Institute  of Loss Adjusters (which  it is a member of) I would find it difficult  to 
criticise this. I havent seen any evidence that it acted in breach of that code,  nor that it acted 
unfairly in signing  Ms E and Mr N up.
As view of PLA
Our adjudicator said that PLA effectively  poisoned  the relationship between Ms E and Mr N 
and the insurer.  It was only after they dropped PLA that A became willing  to compromise.  
The reason  for this was the combative and adversarial  approach that PLA took.
I bear in mind that the claim was conducted by G. On occasions PLA approached A directly, 
but they were  for the most part referred back to G. The evidence that PLA adopted an 
adversarial approach  comes from when it disagreed with G. This was firstly over the 
appointment of a surveyor and then over the issue of underinsurance. PLA tended to, if it 
objected to decisions or actions taken by G, make formal complaints direct to A, question 
Gs competence and/or  threaten to report them to professional  bodies  or the regulator.
I dont think its really  appropriate for me to criticise that sort of approach, which is the way 
loss assessors or claims management companies  tend to act. Certainly from reading 
through all the correspondence I havent seen any evidence that G, or A, were unwilling to 
engage. Or that the approach prevented the matter from being  negotiated. And I have to 
bear in mind  that Ms E and Mr N had serious misgivings about the way As surveyor acted 
when he visited their home, and were  equally very upset at the suggestion that they had 
substantially underinsured  their home.  
As for the point that A was only willing to compromise once Ms E and Mr N had terminated 
their instructions to PLA, I cant see that that is the case. At the time that PLA finished acting, 
there was an offer on the table based  on averaging. PLA proposed to Ms E and Mr N that it 
ask A to make an offer based on the sum insured but Ms E and Mr N didnt want  their 
complaint to this service  to be compromised.
At no stage  did A, or G on its behalf say to PLA that it would be willing  to settle  the claim 
using the claim limit. It also didnt advise  PLA that the insured sum was index  linked. 
Together with the fact that our adjudicator was able to negotiate directly with A, I dont find it 
surprising that he was able to settle  the claim  on better terms. But I dont think  that it was 
PLAs conduct that stopped the claim from being settled.
Ill comment further about the actual settlement below. But, and I can assure Ms E and Mr N 
that I have  read through all PLAs files, there is very little evidence that A couldnt  negotiate  
with PLA or that PLAs attitude somehow prevented this. I can discern from the files that A 
was unwilling to get involved directly, leaving all negotiations to the loss adjuster. Whereas, 
as Ive said, A was more  than willing to review its settlement  of the matter  once it was 
considered by this service.
Ref: DRN84437764In my provisional decision I said:
 
dispute over the choice of surveyor
Effectively, this dispute held up the matter for six months. From the outset PLA insisted that 
Ms E and Mr N would be using the surveyor it wanted to appoint.  It insisted to G that they 
were entitled  to use their own surveyor. G was equally adamant that it would appoint  its 
chosen surveyor. I do criticise PLA here for stubbornly refusing to move the matter on unless 
G agreed to its surveyor. And, despite PLAs insistence, the policy  doesnt require the 
insured to be allowed to appoint their own surveyor - it allows  for the payment of fees such  
as those of a surveyor, if they are agreed in advance. PLA quoted  to G what  are, in my view, 
irrelevant parts of the insurance rules  to support its position.
But G did then, after consulting with A, agree to consider an alternative  surveyor, if details of 
its qualifications could  be given. This was in early January  2017.  PLA did this, and it was 
discovered that the proposed surveyor wasnt RICS registered. They  were  registered with 
the Chartered Institute of Building, (CIOB).  PLA argued that its chosen surveyor was 
perfectly capable of managing the repairs, but G rejected them for not being RICS 
registered. 
PLA had, right at the start of the claim, proposed using a structural  engineer.  As it happened 
that engineer  was a part of a company that was RICS registered, and some time in 
March 2017 it was realised that as an alternative  that firm could be used for the whole claim. 
G agreed to this in April 2017.
Our adjudicator suggested that this was about  underinsurance, and the CIOB registered  firm 
had specifically said it didnt carry out valuations. But, although at the initial  meeting in 
October 2016, As surveyor  said the property was underinsured, I can find no evidence that 
G formally raised  this issue  until June  2017.So it wasnt a live issue that needed taking into 
consideration as part of the dispute  over the choice  of surveyor.
Our adjudicator further suggested  that PLA should have referred the choice of surveyor 
dispute to this service.  I cant see how this would have helped. All we could have said was 
that the policy allows for the cost, which has to be agreed with the insurer. It seems to me 
that, once it moved  matters on, the steps PLA took to resolve  it itself were appropriate.
So I dont  think PLA should be criticised over its choice of surveyor.  But once it realised the 
RICS registration was an issue, it should have considered the alternative  surveyors  it was 
already proposing to use for structural  engineering input. The issue was first raised  on 
11 January 2017,  but the alternative not considered until mid-March.  I think PLA was 
responsible for some  delay, and for not making  it clear to Ms E and Mr N that the policy 
didnt confer  a right to use their own surveyor. Having said that it did reach agreement with G 
that its alternative choice  of surveyor could be used.
Ms E and Mr N say they were only aware of the importance of the surveyor being RICS  
registered when  they made a complaint to this service. They have referred  me to an email  
that PLA sent to the proposed surveyor which for them highlights the fact that PLA knew the 
surveyor hadnt got the necessary qualification.
The email  that Ms E and Mr N refer to was written between PLA and its proposed  surveyor. 
It is informal and urged the proposed  surveyor to deal with As queries urgently as PLA was 
keen to get them on board. In fact the question of the surveyor being RICS registered hadnt  
Ref: DRN84437765come up then. G had said that in order to commission an alternative surveyor....[A] will 
require his full details, including his qualifications for handling a property of this construction.  
The email  to the surveyor should be read in that context ie that it should provide the 
necessary details.
Whilst insurers generally prefer  RICS registered  surveyors if they are to approve an 
independent one, there is no absolute  requirement  and views on this may differ  between 
insurers. The surveyor proposed was, as Ive said CIOB registered which is a perfectly 
respectable qualification If A had said it would only accept a RICS registered surveyor  at the 
outset no doubt  PLA could have  acted accordingly.
Ive also criticised PLA for its part in the delay  here,  but dont think it appropriate  to change 
my award.
In my provisional decision I said:
underinsurance issue/delays
A suggested that the delays after the surveyor was agreed were because PLA was at fault in 
not advising Ms E and Mr N properly  about  the underinsurance  issue. As a result there was 
a long delay in waiting for the tenders to come  back.
Its clear that G had, from the very first site meeting in October, advised  that the property 
was underinsured. It had even suggested a value for this to A. It later confirmed this in a 
meeting in January 2018. But, apart from verbally  advising Ms E and Mr N, I cant see that G 
confirmed it was pursuing underinsurance, until June 2017. At that stage it put forward a 
figure, which PLA said hadnt been previously advised to it. Certainly theres no evidence  of 
it on the files of papers. PLA advised that Ms E and Mr N had used the BCIS index, and had 
asked a surveyor when  they took the policy out, to establish the right sum to insure the 
buildings.
Our adjudicator criticised  PLA for failing to get a RICS surveyor  to carry out a valuation 
exercise. But that would have entailed  a cost for Ms E and Mr N. And Im not sure what that 
would likely  have achieved. The maximum pay-out would have been the policy  limit so it 
seems to me that it made sense to carry out the tender exercise to establish what the repairs  
would cost. Im aware that that took a long time,  and in the meantime Ms E and Mr N were in 
alternative accommodation. But once the issues of underinsurance were  seriously  raised, it 
was always likely the claim would  be resolved  by payment of a cash  settlement. I note that in 
August 2017 G put forward an offer of £350,000. When I consider that the final settlement 
was over £200,000  more  than that I cant say that waiting for the tenders was unreasonable.  
The tender process  took some time but I dont  think PLA was at fault for that.
failing to obtain correct policy wording and to notice indexation
PLA obtained policy wording from G. It appears that this was dated July 2016, when the 
policy was first taken out in April 2016. Our adjudicator was shown the correct wording by A 
and from this it shows that the policy  limit was increased each year in line with the House 
Rebuilding Cost Index.
PLA clearly should  have  noticed this  if it was given the wrong policy  wording by G (which it 
appears that it was) it should have noticed  this. I also note that it asked for the schedule and 
Ref: DRN84437766didnt receive it  but it didnt chase this up. If it had received the schedule  it would 
presumably have seen  the increased policy limit.
But I think A, and G, were equally to blame  here. The offer in January 2018 for £448,000 
based on averaging, was calculated according  to the initial sum insured. G should  have  
ensured it was working based on the correct  sum insured,  and should  have advised PLA of 
the indexation.
So I think PLA was partly at fault here,  and I can understand  if it caused some anxiety to 
Ms E and Mr N. But the advice over the policy  limit and Gs offer happened at the end of 
2017 to early 2018. The eventual settlement wasnt  based on the old limit and we dont 
award compensation for what  might  have happened.
Ms E and Mr N have pointed out that, because of PLAs failure  to obtain the correct policy 
wording it failed to advise them of the correct policy limit. If they had continued to instruct  
PLA they would have  only got a settlement of £448,000.  I can understand this and again 
I have criticised PLA for failing to note that it was given the wrong policy  and having failed to 
obtain the schedule. Ms E and Mr N did tell PLA that they had used the BCIS index and that 
they felt that the up to date value  should  have been  taken  into account. I cant see that they 
said to PLA that they thought their policy was index linked. 
As A had refused  to back down on its proposal to reduce the claim because of 
underinsurance, PLA advised  and helped Ms E and Mr N make a complaint to this service, 
several months before they terminated  their instructions. And whilst PLA suggested that it 
ask A to offer the full policy limit plus around  £15-£20,000, Ms E and Mr N refused that as 
they didnt want  to prejudice their complaint. 
My conclusion is that PLA was at fault in not requesting the correct policy document and 
schedule. Ive noted that A had issued  and received premiums for a policy  that was index 
linked, but didnt tell PLA or Ms E and Mr N. And G didnt obtain the correct policy 
documents. For PLAs part in this, Im satisfied that the compensation award is fair and 
reasonable. 
In my provisional decision I said:
sending correspondence to the wrong  business
PLA sent a detailed email of complaint to the wrong email address. This was in breach of 
data protection.  It apologised for it and I dont  believe it had any consequences. It should 
have taken more  care  I can understand if Ms E and Mr N were upset by this.
overall
Its been suggested that PLA added no value to the case. And that by being so 
confrontational with G and A, poisoned  the relationship, so much  that it failed to achieve any 
kind of settlement that Ms E and Mr N couldnt  have achieved on their own.  
The appointment of a loss assessor  isnt done just to achieve a settlement. That is the 
ultimate goal but in addition to that and with a view to achieving  it, the assessor  manages the 
claim. Here PLA arranged  clearance of the property and appointed a surveyor to draw  up a 
schedule of works. It dealt  with Ms E and Mr Ns insistence that they werent underinsured 
Ref: DRN84437767and negotiated over this. It drew up lists of contents and agreed a valuation. It arranged for a 
tender exercise  to be carried out.
PLA didnt achieve a satisfactory offer, but at the time of its instructions being terminated it 
had proposed putting forward  an offer based  on the (thought  to be) sum insured, plus around 
£20,000  this wasnt that far off the settlement our adjudicator achieved once A had realised 
the policy was index linked. I dont think that A could seriously  argue that it would have stuck 
to its view that averaging  should apply, just because it didnt like the way PLA dealt with the 
case.
Ms E and Mr N signed a mandate  agreeing the percentage to be charged for PLAs  fees.  It 
based those fees on the last settlement offer made  while  it was still acting (the £448,000), 
and discounted  them. Whilst I fully understand Ms E and Mr Ns disappointment at the final 
settlement and having to pay PLAs fees out of that, I dont think that it would be fair or 
reasonable to expect  PLA to forego its fees because its actions,  in my view, did add worth  
the claim process.
But I do think PLA was responsible for some delay  over the appointment of a surveyor,  and 
should have obtained the correct policy wording. It also was careless  in sending an email to 
the wrong company. For those failings I would  propose that it pay compensation of £250.
I stand by those findings  and have  no further  comment to make. My provisional findings, as 
set out above,  are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require PLA to pay compensation of £250 to Ms E and 
Mr N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8443776