K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Pure Financial  Ltd is wrongly seeking payment  for mortgage 
advice.
background
Mr and Mrs C met Pure Financials mortgage  adviser at their home  on two occasions  in 
November 2018.  They had an existing interest-only  mortgage on a standard  variable rate 
and were looking to re-mortgage  on a fixed rate repayment basis. They also wanted  to raise 
capital against  their property to help fund home improvements and buy a new car.
Mr and Mrs C paid a non-refundable application fee to Pure of £199.  And a mortgage offer 
dated 4 December 2018 was subsequently  issued  by a new provider.
Mr C sent an email  message to the mortgage  adviser on 12 December 2018. He said that 
they wanted to stop the application. He said that they needed more  time to reflect,  and that 
they felt they had been railroaded  into something  and everything happened  too fast. And he 
noted that the offer was open for three months and said they would update the adviser in 
due course.
Mr C sent a further message on 30 January 2019. He said that they no longer wanted  to 
proceed with the mortgage at any stage.
Pure Financial responded  to Mr C. It said that its fees had become due when the mortgage 
offer was received on 4 December 2018.  And it issued an invoice to Mr and Mrs C for 
£3,462.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Pure Financial. They said, in summary, that they had 
understood that Pure Financials fees were only payable if they proceeded with the 
mortgage offer. And they said that they were  not informed of their cancellation rights. But 
Pure Financial didnt  agree, and so Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator suggested that Mr and Mrs C should pay a reduced fee to Pure Financial.  
But neither  Pure  Financial nor Mr and Mrs C agreed with her view, and so the complaint 
was referred to me for a decision.
my provisional view
I issued my provisional view to both parties on 4 November 2019. I said,  in summary:
 Id seen a copy of the Initial Disclosure  Document which  was signed by 
Mr and Mrs C and dated 19 November  2018. Having reviewed that documentation  I 
was satisfied that Mr and Mrs C should  have been aware  that Pure Financials  fee 
would be payable once the mortgage  provider made  an offer,  how that fee would be 
calculated, and that the fee would still be payable  if they decided not to proceed.
 Id also seen a copy of the Key Facts Illustration dated 26 November  2018.  Pure  
Financial says, and I accept, that this was issued  to Mr and Mrs C at the second 
meeting on 26 November 2018.  Again, I was satisfied  that this document made it 
clear that the fee was due on issue of the mortgage offer and was non-refundable. 
Ref: DRN80528382 I appreciated  that the mortgage offer issued by the mortgage  provider said that the 
fee to Pure Financial was due on completion  of the mortgage. However this was 
produced by the mortgage provider rather than Pure Financial, and I was satisfied 
that the fee structure had been correctly explained  to Mr and Mrs C in the earlier  
documents as set out above.
 Mr C said that, under consumer contract  legislation, Pure  Financial should have 
given him details  of his cancellation  rights and, as it failed to do so, its contract for 
fees was unenforceable.  But, although Id considered what  Mr C had to say, I didnt 
agree. I was satisfied that the rules  for mortgage intermediaries were set out in the 
FCA Handbook under the MCOB Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (MCOB). And I was satisfied  that MCOB did not provide a 
cancellation right for off-premises contracts  in the way that Mr C suggested.  So this 
didnt change my decision.
 In summary, my provisional view was that I was satisfied that Pure Financial  clearly  
explained its charges to Mr and Mrs C, and that Mr and Mrs C agreed to pay those 
charges. And, although  Mr C says that they felt railroaded and that everything  
happened too fast, I was satisfied  that they had the opportunity  to stop the process 
at an earlier stage. So, in the circumstances, I didnt find it reasonable to ask Pure 
Financial to write off its fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs C and Pure Financial have confirmed that they have received my 
provisional decision, and have no further  comments.  So I see no reason to change  my 
decision and I confirm  it here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8052838