K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance and referred  to 
here as Kent)  about the handling of her buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage. In summary Miss W says 
Kent has breached  its regulatory obligations to treat her fairly, its failed to offer her solutions  
to help her out of her financial difficulties, its customer  service  has been  poor and it took 
possession of the property while she was in residence. Miss W says Kents actions have 
caused her considerable distress. 
background
Miss W has an unregulated BTL mortgage with Kent, taken out in November 2014.  She 
borrowed £240,000  on an interest-only  basis. The first two years of the mortgage were  at a 
fixed rate of interest, with a monthly  payment of £802.65. After that it reverted to Kents BTL 
variable rate.
The mortgage offer states:
This is a Buy to Let mortgage. The property must not be occupied  by the borrower or 
any family member. Failure to adhere to this condition will put you in breach of your 
mortgage terms and may result in the rate and/or terms  of your mortgage being   
reviewed or enforcement  action being taken  by the Bank. Enforcement  action could 
involve formal demand of repayment of the loan or commencement of possession 
proceedings.
In August  2016  Kent was told by Miss W that shed  been living  in the property  from 
May 2015, but that she was currently abroad. She explained that shed lived there between  
10 May 2015 and 3 December 2015.  Miss W also said that between 8 November 2015  and 
19 May 2016 one bedroom had been  rented out to a Mr W (who I think may have been a 
family member). 
In September  2016 Kent said it would  allow Miss W a three-month grace period, after which 
she would  have to repay the BTL mortgage  in full if she wanted to continue to live in the 
property. Alternatively  she could rent it out in accordance with the terms of the mortgage, on 
a single assured  shorthold tenancy.
In October  2016 Miss W applied for a product  switch  to a new BTL product. She wrote a 
detailed letter explaining  that shed rented the property to two friends and their children, 
whose marriages had ended. But after a few months  one returned to her husband; the other 
lived in the back  of the property which was separated from the front of the house by a fire 
door. But this tenant stopped paying rent and she was now going to have to take her to 
court.
Mss W said shed  been trying to sell the property but couldnt  auction it with a tenant in 
place. She also said that the tenants  in her other BTL property had stopped paying rent. She 
explained that the difficulties with tenants and tax changes affecting  BTL landlords had made 
her decide  she didnt want to be a landlord any more. All she wanted to do was to sell both 
properties.
In response Kent confirmed that it wasnt able to allow Miss W to live in the property on a 
BTL rate of interest. Kent said that, at the end of the current  product  in November 2016, the 
mortgage would go onto its standard variable rate (SVR). 
Ref: DRN80329272In December 2016 Kent explained that if Miss W intended to live in the property,  Miss W 
would need to refinance her mortgage  with Kent by taking out a residential mortgage.
In December 2016 Miss W told Kent that the property  was vacant and that the tenants hadnt  
paid rent. Kent agreed  in January 2017 to keep the mortgage payments at £802.65 for three  
months to enable Miss W to market  the property. Kent said it would review  the situation  after 
that.
In April 2017 Miss W told Kent the property was still on the market. It allowed Miss W until 
31 May 2017 before taking any action. Formal  demand was issued in July 2017. In 
August 2017 Law of Property Act Receivers were  appointed.
The Receivers inspected  the property in August  2017 and found it to be vacant, and in poor 
condition. Local estate  agents estimated the property should be marketed at between  
£200,000 and £225,000,  which  would result in a shortfall against  the mortgage  debt. The 
agents told the Receivers that Miss W had rejected an offer of £250,000 in March  2017.
By late 2017 Miss W had found a business partner who she said was willing to invest in the 
property with her, paying off the arrears of over £19,000 (at that point) out of a new BTL 
mortgage in the joint names  of Miss W and her business partner. Miss W explained that her 
other BTL property was now a successful House of Multiple Occupation generating income  
of £26,000 per annum. Kent declined Miss Ws request to consider adding her partner to the 
mortgage.
In August  2018  Miss W complained to us. She didnt think Kent had treated her fairly, 
particularly in the light of health and personal  difficulties shed experienced. Miss W also 
thought Kent hadnt given fair consideration to the proposal to take out a new mortgage with 
a business partner. She said Kent was in breach  of MCOB 13, which sets out all the steps 
lenders are required to take to help borrowers  in arrears.
The property was sold on 16 November 2018  for £170,000.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. In a detailed 
letter dated  23 January 2019  he explained why he was satisfied Kent had acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances. 
Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary she 
said that she is shocked at the lack of empathy around how ill Kents  actions made her. She 
said Kent could have decided to give her an affordable mortgage rate and it could have 
accepted her proposals.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have some 
disappointing news for Miss W  Im not upholding the complaint, for largely the same 
reasons as the adjudicator.
Miss W has claimed that Kent is in breach of MCOB. By this Miss W means the Mortgages  
and Home Finance:  Conduct of Business Sourcebook. This sets out at MCOB 13 what  
lenders are required to do to help borrowers  in arrears.
Ref: DRN80329273But MCOB 13 is only applicable to borrowers  with regulated  mortgages  who are in payment 
arrears. MCOB  13 doesnt apply to unregulated BTL mortgages where the borrower  is in 
breach of contract  which is the situation on Miss Ws mortgage with Kent. In the 
circumstances, Kent wasnt required to follow MCOB 13 when  dealing  with Miss Ws 
financial difficulties. 
Ive reviewed everything thats happened  since Miss W told Kent that shed been  living  in the 
property  on and off  since May 2015.  Im satisfied that, as an experienced BTL landlord 
Miss W knew, or should have known,  that she was required to rent out the property on a 
single tenancy  agreement. 
And I think Miss W would have been  aware   because it was stated  explicitly in the 
mortgage offer  that she wasnt allowed to live in the property herself  or rent it to a family 
member.
Im satisfied Kent took into account Miss Ws circumstances   including the difficulties with 
her health,  as well as her financial position. As a result, Kent granted  payment concessions  
to Miss W and allowed  her to live in the property while she was trying to sell it. As a BTL 
landlord, Miss W is considered a commercial customer. So although Kent is required to treat 
her fairly in relation to payment difficulties, its not obliged to allow  her to occupy the property 
on a BTL mortgage.
Kent wasnt prepared  to allow this situation to continue indefinitely or to permit Miss W to 
remain in breach of the mortgage.  Im satisfied that Kent was under no obligation to do so, or 
to offer Miss W a new BTL product when she was living in the property. 
It had made  its position clear: Miss W had to repay the mortgage  in full as she was in breach 
of the terms and conditions. Alternatively,  she could arrange a new residential mortgage,  or 
she could rent out the property, in compliance with the mortgage conditions.  When  none of 
those things happened after several  months and extensions of time, Im satisfied Kent was 
entitled to appoint Receivers. It had given Miss W ample notice of its intentions to do so and 
its actions were fair, reasonable and proportionate  in all the circumstances.
Kent was under no obligation to accept  Miss Ws proposals about  entering into partnership  
with a third party,  or to offer them  a new mortgage  in their joint names.  In commercial 
transactions such as this, Kent is entitled  to decide  the level of risk to which it is prepared to 
be exposed. In any event, it was always open to Miss W and her business partner to apply  
for a BTL mortgage  with another lender if theyd wanted to follow  this course of action.
Miss W was also unhappy at what she said was unsympathetic treatment from Kents staff. I 
appreciate Miss W has been through a very difficult time  shes had health,  personal and 
financial troubles  that I am sure have  been  very upsetting for her. I can understand that, 
given her situation, Miss W felt pressured  by Kent. But Im satisfied Kents communication 
with Miss W was professional and appropriate  in the circumstances.
I know this isnt the decision Miss W was hoping for. I fully understand shes  had many 
obstacles to overcome in recent years, and Im truly sorry if my decision adds to her distress.  
But after careful  consideration, I dont  think Kent has treated Miss W unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN80329274my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8032927