K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about charges that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has applied to 
his account.
background
Mr B told us that he has an overdraft on his account with Halifax  but when he got his 
statement at the end of 2017,  he discovered  that he was being charged  around £40 per 
month for that. He said that hes unable to work because of ill health,  and the only money he 
gets is benefits, so the money in this account is really important to him. 
Halifax said that Mr B had been  over his overdraft limit of £100.  Hed been  charged for that, 
but he had an overdraft control facility on his account, which  meant that these charges were 
reduced. So he paid £1 per day to use any borrowing over his £100 limit, not £5 per day. 
Halifax explained that it has now stopped charging its customers  for any overdraft control 
service, any unplanned or planned payment fees, or any returned payment fee. Instead it 
would just charge  Mr B 1p per day for every £7 of borrowing on his overdraft. 
Halifax gave Mr B a phone number to ring, in case he needed any help in reducing his 
borrowing. 
Halifax wrote  to Mr B again  after this. It said that it knew that Mr B was on benefits,  but that it 
could still charge him for using  the borrowing facility on his account.  And it repeated its offer 
to help if he was in financial difficulties. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Mr B had previously queried  bank  
fees with Halifax,  and complained to our service  about them, in 2016.  Halifax said then that it 
would refund some charges, and explained that he has a control facility on his account, 
which reduces the amount he can be charged for going over his overdraft limit. Our 
investigator said that Mr B was regularly using his overdraft facility and was being  charged 
every month, so he wouldnt be unaware  of the charges. 
Our investigator said that Halifax is entitled  to charge Mr B when he borrows  money  from it. 
He thought that Halifax had applied those charges in line with its tariff. And those charges 
had now changed,  so Mr B was paying much less for his borrowing now.  Our investigator 
said that if Mr B wanted to stop paying  overdraft charges, then he could contact Halifax and 
discuss clearing the overdraft. But he didnt think that Halifax  had to refund the charges it 
had applied.
Mr B didnt agree with that. He wanted  his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman  so 
it was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Our investigator was right to say that Halifax is entitled to charge Mr B for borrowing. It is 
allowed to do that, even though his only income is from benefits. Ive looked  at Mr Bs 
account, and I cant  see anything that suggests  to me that Halifax  hasnt applied  the charges 
Ref: DRN83884302in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account. Halifax  doesnt  have  to pay those 
charges back to Mr B.
But I can see that the charges for borrowing through an overdraft have changed on Mr Bs 
account. He was charged £3 for unplanned  overdraft fees and £28 for planned overdraft  fees 
at the start of November 2017. That was for borrowing in October. He was then charged 14 
pence a day on almost every day in November, until his account went  back  into credit.  But 
hes no longer  being  charged  a monthly  fee for his borrowing. There  was no lump  sum 
charged to his account at the start of December 2017, for his November  borrowing.
Halifax has made the changes that it told him Mr B would make. So his borrowing  in 
November 2017  cost him much less than the borrowing he made  for October, and paid for in 
November. And it will cost him much less in future.
Mr B has told us that he relies on his income  from benefits. Its his only source of income,  so 
this money is important to him. Halifax has offered to help Mr B to reduce his borrowing,  if he 
would like, so he no longer has to pay for it. Thats what  I would expect Halifax  to do in this 
case.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but Halifax doesnt have to give him any money  back. I 
dont think its done anything wrong. Because  of that, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8388430