K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint against Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (which was trading as 
Standard Life Wealth Limited) is about the investment recommended for the funds 
transferred to his Self- Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). In particular, he doesnt think the 
investment was suitable for the degree of risk that he wanted to take at outset. And he wasnt 
given sufficient and transparent information about it on an ongoing basis to assess its relative 
performance.
background
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ms complaint.  He set out the background and 
circumstances to it in his assessment. But in brief, Mr M contacted Standard  Life in 2013 to 
discuss his financial arrangements. The discussions covered a number  of areas including 
the possible consolidation of three  personal pension plans. A risk profiling exercise 
categorised him as medium  high. But it was agreed  he would take a medium  risk with this 
investment following discussions with the adviser. 
Mr M was in receipt of an annuity of £20,000 per year. His overall investment goal was 
recorded as to generate an income of £20,000 from your various investments whilst 
keeping your taxable income  under  the higher rate tax band. And his investment objective 
for the SIPP was recorded as to provide a sustainable return on an ongoing  basis,  to 
meet regular withdrawals,  whilst maintaining a medium level of risk. 
Mr M transferred two of the pensions investing  approximately £550,000 held in the SIPP into 
a discretionary managed target return portfolio  - LIBOR  (London  Inter-Bank Offered Rate)  
+3.5%.  He also made other investments into target return portfolios that are the subject of 
separate complaints. 
 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  In brief, his view was 
that although Mr M had been prepared to take a higher degree of risk it had ultimately been 
agreed by Mr M that he would take less risk. The adjudicator thought the investment was 
suitable given  Mr Ms circumstances and objectives  and the degree  risk that hed agreed to 
take. He thought Mr M ought to have  been aware  of the degree of risk that the investment 
presented given the information hed received at the time and on an ongoing  basis. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, he said that he initially 
indicated he was willing to accept a higher degree of risk and was looking at 7% returns. But 
hed been talked down to a 5% target return.  He said his goal wasnt  to achieve  a £20,000 
income from his investments; he was intending to invest  a higher amount which would have 
required a lower return to achieve this £20,000. His actual objective was to achieve a 5% 
return net of charges allowing him to take £20,000 from his investments if required.  He said 
the firms Profile  Report  and computer modelling  showed that 5% wasnt achievable and 
there would be a shortfall. And that if he had been  given this information he would have 
known the investments werent what he wanted  and werent suitable  for him.
Mr M said that when further  investments were  made  in 2015 the income from the SIPP was 
to come from another source. So no withdrawals were made from the SIPP  (the SIPP  was 
ultimately to be left to charity) and therefore it was to be left alone  for about 15 years for 
growth. Mr M said a proper review of his circumstances at this time would have picked  this 
up and have led to a reassessment of how and where his SIPP  should have been  re-
Ref: DRN85965002invested. He said Standard Life evaded  any such review and/or Risk Assessment on what 
was new money in breach of its own rules.
Mr M said he had questioned the degree  of risk the investment  presented in 2014  when they 
were categorised from medium to medium low risk. He was told this was just a revision after 
a merger with another firm and nothing had changed. He said that no details were given and 
the risk assessment  titles were misleading  as to the degree of risk they actually presented. 
He said he would have  moved to alternative  funds if hed been  provided with more  
appropriate and detailed information.  He said it was the comparable  performance with one of 
his existing pension  funds that he didnt  actually transfer in April 2017 that alerted him that 
there was a problem.
Mr M said that Standard  Life had a duty to advise him fully and openly in the 2016 review  
and alert him to what was going on with their range of investments. They  had other funds 
which were doing  very well whereas the target return  portfolios were doing poorly. If hed 
been alerted to the full picture and made aware that there were  other  suitable  funds  that he 
could invest in, he would have moved funds  rather than keep going in lower risk funds that 
were consistently losing money. He said it was this concealment  that he was complaining 
about rather than about performance itself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr M has said,  there  is considerable overlap between this complaint and those 
complaints that have  already been considered by another  ombudsman.  And I think  what the 
other ombudsman said applies  to much of the complaint here.  I wont revisit those issues  
rather Ill address the issues that apply to the SIPP in particular that werent covered 
previously (albeit again, there will inevitably be some overlap). 
I also agree  that the division of responsibilities within Standard Life was blurred; I dont think 
it was clear which part of it was providing advice.  
However ultimately, I think whats central to Mr Ms complaint is the suitability, or otherwise, 
of the investment. And having carefully considered the matter,  like the adjudicator, Im 
satisfied that the target return portfolio was suitable  given Mr Ms circumstances, objectives 
and the degree  of risk hed agreed to take at the time.
Mr M has said that the firm has misinterpreted  his objective as described  above. Although  
there is a clear difference,  I dont  think its material  in the circumstances here.  The 
investment was selected as it was considered it could achieve the 5% discussed.  It was 
aimed to provide the 5% return  required. Mr M has said he was initially  aiming for a 7% 
return and was inclined  to take more risk. And I accept this was the case; and that he had 
the capacity to accept  more risk. But that doesnt  necessarily mean that he had to take it. Or 
that taking a lower  level of risk was unsuitable. 
The evidence shows that Mr M agreed to accept a lower level of risk following discussions 
about it. Whilst Mr M had some investment experience I accept  he wasnt  the expert  he 
was paying the firm for its expertise. But I think he was in a position to understand he was 
taking a lower level of risk and more generally what that meant. 
Ref: DRN85965003But I think Mr M would then say that the investment wasnt  likely to provide that 5% - as 
evidenced by the Profile Report  so he wouldnt have invested  in it because it didnt present 
the level of risk hed agreed on.
I understand the point Mr M makes given  the Profile Report calculated  a shortfall to the 5%. 
However I think whats key is that:
The profile report was based on an assumed 4.5% return  (given  its cash benchmark 
was 6 month LIBOR estimated to be 1% at that time).  It was a fairly blunt instrument 
and was always going to show a return below  the 5% given that assumption. The 
literature said while cash rates remain so low we believe 5% is an achievable total 
return after fees. I think there  would  have been a reasonable expectation of future 
rates rising at that time. And returns in excess  of the 5% had been achieved in the 
previous two years. I dont think the report was evidence that the investment couldnt 
or wouldnt reasonably be expected to achieve  the 5% and was therefore 
fundamentally unsuitable. 
Portfolio asset  allocation isnt an exact  science. Different investment managers  may 
have different reasonable opinions on appropriate  asset  allocation   albeit within 
reasonable parameters. Ive looked  at the make-up of the particular target  return  
portfolio and it has a spread of assets including equities, bonds and alternatives and 
Im satisfied  was broadly aligned to the degree of risk that Mr M agreed to take. A 
0.5% difference in return is also very tight;  I think it would be very difficult  to 
differentiate the suitability of asset  allocation between portfolios on an estimated 
future return of such a fine margin.
Overall, Im satisfied the investment was broadly  aligned to the degree of risk that Mr M had 
agreed to take at the outset.  And that it had the potential to provide the 5% return  required 
to meet  Mr Ms objective; even taking the lesser risk.  It appears that Mr M was aware there  
were other higher  risk target return portfolios available.  But that they hadnt done as well as 
the medium risk portfolio  which  is why he agreed to the lesser risk portfolio. Im satisfied 
Mr M was reasonably aware that he had agreed  to take that level of risk. 
Mr M has said he didnt invest  further money into his SIPP  in 2015. However hes said that 
given hed stopped drawing an income  from it going forward, a proper re-appraisal of his 
circumstances would  have identified that these  funds  could  have been  invested for growth.
The paperwork from the time refers to meetings  in January and February  2015  (its not clear  
if these were in person  or by telephone). But the file note records
Nothing has materially  changed to his circumstances  and further to the ongoing 
conversation weve  been having  he now wants to invest further money. 
Under Know  Your Client it said
Existing client and circumstances are unchanged.
So it appears the firm were in contact  with Mr M on an ongoing  basis. Whilst I cant 
determine with any reasonable degree  of certainty  exactly how much  depth they went  into 
Mr Ms circumstances,  it appears conversations did take place. As I explained above,  I think  
the degree of risk presented  by the target return portfolio was suitable  given Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives in 2013.
Ref: DRN85965004I think Mr M would have  known the degree  of risk he was taking with his pension  both from 
the initial paperwork and the subsequent information  that was sent to him through  to 2015. 
And again, although he may have been  in a position  to accept more risk given withdrawals 
werent being taken  from the pension fund and the ultimate aim was to leave it to charity, it 
doesnt necessarily  mean  he had to take that risk. Or that taking a lesser risk was unsuitable. 
Mr M considers that Standard Life failed to provide sufficient  information about the 
performance of the target return portfolio on an ongoing basis. And that it didnt compare the 
performance or advise  on other funds with superior  performance that were appropriate for 
his circumstances  and objectives. 
Standard Life did provide  regular reports that showed the portfolios performance. It showed  
performance against the benchmark and also charts and commentary on how other markets 
were performing including  equities and bonds.  Whilst  I accept it didnt show comparisons 
against other funds  it marketed (or otherwise) it wasnt obliged  to do so. 
But I think having a willingness and capacity to accept risk, and even considering it seriously, 
isnt quite the same as actually taking that risk. I realise Mr M feels  strongly  that he would 
have taken a higher  degree of risk had Standard Life discussed and alerted him to other 
appropriate funds  and their better performance. But the investment into the SIPP  was long 
term. He had only been in it for a relatively  short period. And its likely any discussions with 
the firm about changing  strategy/funds would have covered this and included  warnings that 
although one investment  might currently be outperforming another,  there was no guarantee 
that would  continue. 
Different investments/funds  will outperform at different times depending on their different 
types of holdings/strategies. I accept there comes a point where  investment  manager 
performance comes into question, but its very difficult to call that in the shorter term. 
With the benefit of hindsight  its now possible to see that Mr M may have  got better returns  in 
other investments that would also have been appropriate for his circumstances. However the 
target return portfolio  was a suitable  investment at the relevant  times, and there  was no 
guarantee that a switch to take on more risk would have proved better returns. 
Limiting exposure to the level of risk thats  necessary to reach a goal isnt unreasonable 
given the potential impact of significant market falls. Sensible investment advice should take 
this into account.  So I dont think investing  differently would have been as clear cut a 
decision as Mr M now considers; albeit I realise it was ultimately Mr Ms decision; he knows  
his own mind and I accept he gave it serious thought at different times.
But overall, Im bound to make a decision on the basis of what I consider is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Im satisfied that Mr M was aware of the level of risk that 
he was taking and he accepted that level of risk.  Im also satisfied  that the target return 
portfolio was suitable for Mr M given  his circumstances  and objectives  at the relevant times. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award  Mr M 
compensation on the basis that hed invested  in a different  fund presenting higher risk.
my decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN85965005Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8596500