K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that the car he acquired with finance  from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMW)  isnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr O says he noticed issues  with the quality of the paintwork  on his car soon  after he 
acquired it new in August  2017. He says hes had to take the car in for repair work on a 
number of occasions, causing him considerable inconvenience. But he says there  are still 
issues with the paintwork  and other  aspects  of the quality of the bodywork.
So, Mr O says he wants BMW to pay the cost of remedying  these  issues  and he wants it to 
pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result  of 
this matter.
BMW says the car was first registered  in November 2016 but Mr O didnt acquire it until 
August 2017,  so it is a used car. It says it was sold as an approved used car and this was 
reflected in the price. 
BMW also says the cars already been repaired by an approved  retailer  and Mr O accepted 
the repairs. And it says Mr O was kept mobile whilst his car was being repaired, so it 
shouldnt be required to return any of his monthly payments.
Our investigator thought Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She said BMW should pay      
Mr O five monthly payments under his finance  agreement to enable  him to have the 
remaining paintwork  issues  remedied. And it should pay him £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of having to make  multiple  visits to the garage  
and for his loss of enjoyment of the car.
BMW disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said Mr Os had the benefit of a used 
car price, but he expects  new car quality,  which  isnt fair. It says whether Mr O feels  its a 
new car is irrelevant. It says its legally defined as a used car as hes the second owner, 
regardless of whether the first owner  was a consumer or not. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I acknowledged  the parties 
disagree about whether the car should be regarded  as new or used when Mr O acquired it. 
But I thought what matters is that it was a premium brand car that Mr O acquired  for a 
substantial price and it had minimal mileage and no previous retail owner. And no defects 
were drawn to Mr Os attention before he acquired  the car. So, in the circumstances I 
thought he was entitled to expect the paintwork to be of near perfect  quality. 
I could see BMW paid for work  to be undertaken on several occasions  in an attempt to 
rectify the issues Mr O discovered  with the quality of the paintwork. But I could also see     
Mr O says there remain significant paintwork defects that were  present  when  he acquired 
the car. And hed given us information in support of his complaint, including photos showing 
the defects hes complained about and a quote  he obtained for repair work more than a year 
ago from a bodyshop authorised by the cars  manufacturer.
Ref: DRN88194132I was satisfied from the information  Id seen that Mr Os car has paintwork defects that were  
present when he acquired it. And I noted  that Id spent  some time trying to find a resolution 
to his complaint  involving BMW undertaking the outstanding work.  But that hadnt proved 
possible. So, I was minded to conclude that the fairest outcome in the circumstances would 
be for me to require  BMW  to pay Mr O a sum of money that should be sufficient to enable 
him to have  the issues for which its responsible resolved at this stage. 
I could see that previously a bodyshop authorised by the manufacturer  quoted Mr O 
£1,904.17 including VAT for this work. So, I was minded  to conclude it would be fair for me 
to require BMW to pay him this sum and he can then make  his own arrangements  to have 
the repairs carried out.
I acknowledged Mr O recently  obtained  a much  higher quote for repairs  to the paintwork of 
his car from a dealership authorised by the manufacturer.  But Mr O had acknowledged some 
further damage to the paintwork has occurred during his use of the car. And the information  
Id seen indicated  the recent quote  Id referred  to would involve carrying  out a full respray  of 
most of the car from bare metal.  So, I was minded to conclude this would go well beyond  
whats necessary to remedy the paintwork  defects  that were present when it was supplied 
and would therefore be disproportionate.  
I could see Mr O had experienced distress  and inconvenience as a result of this matter,  
including needing  to take his car in for repairs on several occasions. So, I was minded to 
conclude it would be reasonable for me to require BMW to pay him compensation of £150,  in 
the circumstances. 
 
And I was minded  to partly uphold Mr Os complaint on this basis.
This was different  from the investigators  opinion. So, I invited  both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In response to my provisional decision Mr O says hes unhappy  because  the report  he 
obtained recently at my request  from a dealership authorised by the manufacturer  shows the 
cost to repair his car as being £11,000.
BMW accepted my provisional  decision.  
Ive noted Mr Os comments. But, as I said in my provisional decision, he previously  
acknowledged that some  further damage  to the paintwork has occurred during his use of the 
car. And the information Ive seen indicates  the quote hes referred to would involve carrying  
out a full respray of most of the car from bare metal. I think this would go well beyond whats  
necessary to remedy the paintwork defects  that were present when it was supplied and 
would therefore  be disproportionate.  
So, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for me to partly uphold Mr Os complaint on the 
basis set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN88194133my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Os complaint against  BMW  Financial Services  (GB) Limited. It must pay 
him the £1904.17 he was previously quoted to rectify the paintwork defects that were  
present when his car was supplied to him. And also pay him £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr O complains that the car he acquired  with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMW) isnt of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN88194134background
Mr O says he noticed issues  with the quality of the paintwork on his car soon after he acquired  it new 
in August 2017. He says hes had to take the car in for repair work  on a number of occasions, causing  
him considerable inconvenience. But he says there are still issues with the paintwork and other 
aspects of the quality of the bodywork.
So, Mr O says he wants BMW to pay the cost of remedying these issues and he wants it to pay him 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced  as a result of this matter.
BMW says the car was first registered  in November  2016 but Mr O didnt acquire  it until August 2017, 
so it is a used  car. It says it was sold as an approved used car and this was reflected in the price. 
BMW also says the cars already been repaired by an approved retailer and Mr O accepted the 
repairs. And it says Mr O was kept mobile whilst his car was being  repaired,  so it shouldnt be 
required to return any of his monthly payments.
Our investigator thought Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She said BMW should pay      Mr O five 
monthly payments under  his finance agreement to enable  him to have the remaining paintwork issues 
remedied. And it should pay him £150 compensation for the inconvenience hed experienced as a 
result of having to make multiple  visits to the garage and for his loss of enjoyment of the car.
BMW disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  It said Mr Os had the benefit of a used car price,  
but he expects new car quality, which  isnt fair. It says whether Mr O feels its a new car is irrelevant. It 
says its legally defined as a used car as hes the second owner, regardless  of whether the first owner  
was a consumer or not. 
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to partly uphold Mr Os complaint and to require BMW to pay him the £1904.17  
he was previously quoted to rectify the paintwork defects that were present when his car was supplied 
to him. And to pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced as a 
result of this matter. Ill explain why.
BMW supplied  Mr Os car under a finance agreement, so it was responsible for ensuring the car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I acknowledge the parties disagree about whether the car should  be regarded as new or used when 
Mr O acquired it. But I think what matters  is that it was a premium brand  car that Mr O acquired  for a 
substantial price and it had minimal mileage and no previous retail owner. And no defects were drawn 
to Mr Os attention before he acquired  the car. So, in the circumstances I think  he was entitled to 
expect the paintwork to be of near perfect quality.  
I see BMW paid for work to be undertaken on several occasions in an attempt to rectify the issues  Mr 
O discovered with the quality of the paintwork. But Mr O says there remain significant  paintwork 
defects that were present when he acquired  the car. And hes given  us information in support of his 
complaint, including  photos  showing the defects  hes complained about  and a quote he obtained for 
repair work more  than a year ago from a bodyshop authorised by the cars manufacturer.
Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Mr Os car has paintwork defects that were present 
when he acquired it. And Ive spent some time trying to find a resolution to his complaint involving 
BMW undertaking  the outstanding work. But that hasnt proved possible.  So, Im minded to conclude  
Ref: DRN88194135that the fairest  outcome in the circumstances  is for me to require BMW  to pay Mr O a sum of money 
that should  be sufficient  to enable him to have the issues for which  its responsible resolved at this 
stage. 
I see around a year ago a bodyshop authorised by the manufacturer quoted Mr O £1,904.17 including 
VAT for this work. So, Im minded to conclude  it would be fair for me to require  BMW to pay him this 
sum and he can then make his own arrangements  to have the repairs carried out.
I acknowledge Mr O recently obtained a much higher quote for repairs to the paintwork of his car from 
a dealership authorised  by the manufacturer. But Mr Os acknowledged some further damage to the 
paintwork has occurred  during his use of the car. And the information Ive seen indicates the recent 
quote Ive referred to would involve carrying out a full respray of most of the car from bare metal.  So, 
Im minded to conclude  this would go well beyond whats necessary to remedy the paintwork defects 
that were present when it was supplied  and would therefore be disproportionate.  
I see Mr Os experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of this matter, including  needing to 
take his car in for repairs on several occasions. So, Im minded to conclude  it would be reasonable for 
me to require BMW to pay him compensation  of £150, in the circumstances.
And Im minded  to partly  uphold Mr Os complaint on this basis.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  to partly  uphold Mr Os complaint against BMW  Financial  Services (GB)  Limited.  Im 
minded to require it to pay Mr O the £1904.17 he was previously quoted  to rectify  the paintwork 
defects that were present when his car was supplied to him. And to pay him £150 compensation  for 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of this matter.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8819413