K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly increased his car 
insurance premium when he changed address.
In bringing this complaint Mr Is been helped by his aunt. But for ease Ill refer to her 
comments as being those of Mr I.
background
Mr I told Admiral that hed changed address. Admiral charged  him an additional premium of 
around £1,205  for a period of less than five months to cover the new address.
Mr I didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  
Admiral had done anything wrong.  Mr I didn't  agree so his complaint's been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Given the size of the increase in his premium, I can understand why Mr I felt cause to 
complain. But that doesnt  mean  Admiral  has treated  him unfairly nor done  anything wrong. 
Thats because its usual  for insurers to consider that different addresses - even when close 
together - pose  different  risks for which they may charge significantly different premiums.
Were not the industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) is. And its not my 
role to say how much  an insurer should charge,  what factors  it should  assess,  or how much 
risk to attach to each  of those factors. Insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And where a consumer lives is usually a 
significant factor in that assessment. Each insurer will decide for itself the risk a specific  
address attracts. So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to 
see if its treated them  the same  as it would other consumers with similar circumstances.
Mr I said that feels  that the increase in premium  is extortionate, especially given hed 
already paid a significant  sum when  he took out the policy. So Ive looked to see how 
Admiral arrived at the additional premium.  In order to do so Admiral  provided us with some 
information to show how Mr Is premium  had changed. Those details are commercially  
sensitive, so I cant share them with him. But having  looked at that information carefully I can 
see the new premium took into account  relevant factors and how those have  changed. And I 
can see that its applied  its rating  factors to the new address as it would for other  consumers 
with similar  circumstances. And while I can understand Mr Is unhappiness  at the size of the 
increase in premium,  I think  Admiral  has dealt with him reasonably.  So I dont intend to direct  
it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN81959412my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8195941