K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Ms M met with Bradford  & Bingley in 1994 to carry out a transfer  of equity (transferring  the 
mortgage from joint names to her sole name) and take out a further advance to her existing 
mortgage. Around the same time she also took out PPI designed  to protect  her mortgage 
payments in the event she couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy cost around £12 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit of £175.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  He said the evidence  suggested Ms M 
chose to take out PPI and there was nothing to say shed lost out to the extent that she 
should get back everything she paid for PPI.
Bradford & Bingley  subsequently offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI in relation to 
the non-disclosure of high commission, which Ms M accepted.
But Ms M disagrees that her policy wasnt miss-sold, so the complaint comes to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
After careful consideration, Ive decided Ms Ms policy wasnt mis-sold  because:
I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Bradford & Bingley  has provided a copy of a separate PPI application, which I can see 
Ms M signed. The application didnt say PPI was compulsory and by having  to complete 
separate paperwork from the mortgage  paperwork, I dont think  Ms M wouldve been 
given the impression she had to have  the policy. I accept its possible she was told she 
had to have it. But Ive not seen  enough  evidence to say that this is more likely than not 
what happened. So I cant uphold the complaint  on the basis  Ms M wasnt given a choice 
about PPI.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt recommend  the PPI to Ms M  Ive not seen enough evidence 
to persuade me it did - so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to 
make sure she got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this 
type of cover. 
Ref: DRN82373772Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the key exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  for example  she was 
employed and in good health. So it would have been  useful for her if something went 
wrong.
Ms M was entitled to sick pay and says she had savings she couldve used to help pay 
her mortgage. But the PPI wouldve  paid out alongside her existing means and for longer 
if necessary. Im also mindful that Ms M was taking  on sole responsibility for the 
mortgage, so I think  she had a need for cover  and the policy wouldve helped her out 
financially if things went wrong  it wouldve helped protect her home. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable  its cost was not in my view significant.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms 
M.
But Bradford  & Bingley has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Ms M about that. Because  Bradford & Bingley 
didnt tell Ms M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Ms M hasnt lost out as a result  of 
having PPI to the extent she should  get back everything she paid for the policy.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it is in the process  of doing 
this, or has already  done it, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8237377