K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy Covea  Insurance 
plc didnt ensure  he was fully compensated for the damage to his car that happened  whilst it 
was within  its care and control. He says its overall  service was also poor.
 
background 
When Mr E reported a fire in the cars  engine, Covea had the car collected by a salvage 
agent. Mr E later accepted Coveas decision to decline  the claim as Coveas engineers and 
an independent engineer  said the fault was mechanical. That meant it wasnt covered by the 
policy. But when Mr Es car was returned  to him, he noted serious new damage to it. 
The recovery agent said the salvage agent had lifted the car onto his vehicle using  a fork lift 
truck, which had caused the new damage. The salvage agent  later accepted liability.  But the 
agent and Covea didnt accept the £3,150.48 repair quote that Mr E got. It was from a local 
dealership garage  that was one of Coveas approved repairers.  Mr E was offered only 
£1,200 for the repairs. Covea later raised the sum to £1,444.01 - and then to £1,573.69.  That 
was after Mr E said a 20% trade discount  should  be removed. He was still unhappy  that two 
front lower  suspension  arms  (plus labour for their fitting) werent included.
Covea agreed  to pay an extra £178.12 for one of the arms. It said that was a gesture of 
goodwill. It said the cost of both front arms, plus labour, was already included  in the 
estimate. The total offer to Mr E for repairs was then £1,751.81. Mr E said Covea should pay 
for the other  front arm, plus £120 for labour and VAT (£298.12 in total). And he said it should  
increase the £300 it had offered him for distress  and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Es complaint. She thought  £300  compensation was 
enough to reflect the time and effort Mr E had put into trying to resolve  the matter. She noted 
that Covea had said if Mr E didnt  accept its final offer of £1,751.81, the complaint should be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. So it was passed to me.     
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I thought it was hard to compare the estimate  Mr E got from the dealership  garage and the 
one supplied  by Covea. Different  terminology was used  in each. But I noted  that the 
dealership referred  to front N/stock arm assy front (x 2) and said these should be replaced,  
at £174.62 each. These items  which seem  to be front suspension  arms - didnt seem to be 
listed in Coveas estimate. So we asked Covea  to comment on that point in particular  and on 
its estimate in general. It didnt respond, despite being given extra time to do so. 
In the absence of a response from Covea, I can only base my decision on what Mr E has 
said, plus my interpretation of the estimates.  It seems the front suspension arms werent 
included in the offer of £1, 573.61  that was made to Mr E. So I cant see how VAT or labour 
charges for them could  have been included in it either. 
I think Covea should pay for the front suspension  arms,  plus VAT and labour. Mr E has 
estimated VAT and labour  charges  for fitting the arms at £120.  Unless Covea can show  that 
the sum hes suggested is inflated,  I think it should pay that sum too. So I think  the total sum 
due to Mr E, given the details that are currently available,  is £2,049.93, plus interest. 
Ref: DRN83059232In terms of the sum Covea offered Mr E for distress and inconvenience, it seems Mr E had to 
do a lot of chasing to move his claim forward. And he had to argue hard about the new 
damage to the car. Covea has said it should  never  have been  sent to the salvage  agent in 
the first place. Mr E was shocked by the amount of damage that was done to the car there. 
He was also shocked by the way it was caused,  as it was totally  avoidable. He was wrongly 
told the dealership  garages estimate would  be paid. That raised  his expectations and led to 
confusion and disappointment later on. 
I think Covea could  have  communicated  much better with Mr E. I think  it should  I have  
explained to him why it didnt agree with the estimate from the dealership garage. And I think 
it should have  looked more closely at his concerns about the items that werent going to be 
paid for. That might  well have led to a better  and much earlier resolution of the matter. So I 
think its reasonable for Mr E to feel very frustrated and upset by whats happened.  I think  
the complaint  can be resolved fairly by Covea paying him extra  for the damage  (as set out 
above) plus £400  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Both parties  accepted them.
my findings  
   
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
findings, I see no reason  to depart  from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc must do the following:
Pay Mr E £400 in total for distress  and inconvenience
Pay Mr E £2,049.33 in total for the damage to his car
Add interest to the £2,049.93 at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of its first 
offer to the date of settlement
If Covea thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8305923