K822xcomplaint
Mrs L complains  about the service  shes received  from Santander UK Plc.
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both Mrs L and Santander, so Ill 
only provide a brief summary here.
In June 2018 Mrs L moved house  and contacted Santander to update her address. She says 
she contacted  Santander numerous times  but her request still wasnt  actioned. So Mrs L 
complained as she was particularly  upset  and frustrated due to experiencing similar  
problems before - which she also complained about. This related to when she had last 
changed her address  a few months  earlier.  
Santander said Mrs L had made  her change of address request to their complaints team,  
who dont deal with changes of address. They referred her to some  guidance as to the 
correct process to follow. But they didnt set up a new complaint as they considered the 
matter to be a continuation  of her previous complaint about similar issues. 
Being unhappy with this Mrs L contacted our service. One of our investigators  contacted  
Santander and explained the nature  of Mrs Ls concerns. Santander  accepted the service 
theyd provided  hadnt  met the standards they normally aim for. They offered Mrs L £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shed experienced. Mrs L didnt accept this and 
asked our service to investigate. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She recommended that Santander 
increase the compensation by a further  £50 to make £200 in total. Santander accepted the 
recommendation. Mrs L doesnt accept this; she says she incurred additional costs that she 
hasnt been reimbursed for. She also says the compensation  doesnt  fairly reflect  the impact  
this has had on her. 
As agreement couldnt be found, the matter  has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already exchanged a great deal of correspondence  with Mrs L. Ive 
reviewed this and I agree  with what our investigator  said. So I dont think it would be helpful  
to repeat all of it here. Particularly as I acknowledge this is an important  issue  to Mrs L and 
she can find dealing with it upsetting. 
My role is to consider all the evidence and make  a decision based on what I believe to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Its accepted by everyone that the service 
Santander provided couldve been  better.  So all that remains  to decide is what  should  be 
done to put things right. 
Mrs L said that to resolve her complaint she wanted  an explanation and compensation. Im 
satisfied Mrs L has been provided with an explanation of the process of how to change her 
address. And whilst I appreciate she might not agree with all of it, Santander are entitled to 
Ref: DRN83213332choose how to run their business. And I note that theyve also provided Mrs L with a phone 
number she can use more  easily to contact them from abroad. 
Mrs Ls address has been correctly  updated, albeit a number of weeks later than it should  
have been. But she was put to some trouble and inconvenience in having to chase 
Santander for updates and progress on what should, on the face of it, have been a relatively  
simple administrative request. This included making a number of international phone  calls as 
Mrs L doesnt currently live in the UK. It also would have  caused her an amount of worry and 
concern about  the security of her account  whilst the situation  went unresolved. 
Mrs L says she thinks  any compensation should be between £500 and £2,000. She 
highlights that she has some health problems  which she feels  have been made worse 
through the stress caused. Ive taken this into consideration  when deciding what I think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ls complaint. 
Mrs L also told our service that she incurred additional expense in relation  to letters  and 
phone calls relating  to her complaint. But she also says she isnt able to provide evidence of 
this expenditure.  I think our investigator  was right to increase the compensation to take into 
account some of these  costs as I dont think Mrs L should be unfairly  disadvantaged for not 
having detailed  records of all of her expenditure.
But we need  to be fair to both sides and I dont think it would be fair to include further 
additional costs   without evidence theyve  been incurred. I appreciate  the impact  Mrs L 
says this has had on her. But I dont think I can fairly  hold Santander  responsible for all the 
health difficulties  Mrs L has experienced. And Ive taken  her health and the impact specific  to 
her into consideration  when making  my decision.  Looking at everything  as a whole, I agree 
that £200 is a fair and appropriate amount  to recognise both the costs incurred by Mrs L and 
for the trouble and upset  shes  experienced. So this is the amount Im going to award in 
resolution of Mrs Ls complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, unless theyve already done so, Santander  UK Plc must pay Mrs L 
£200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8321333