K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Miss I complain about the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
(Santander ) regarding the release of their mortgage  advance. 
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr M and Miss I and Santander so I wont repeat it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not 
mentioned something  its not because Ive ignored  it, but because  I dont think  its relevant to 
the issues. However in summary it is this; 
Mr M and Miss I were buying  a house  with a mortgage from Santander. Their  solicitors (S) 
submitted a document known as a report on title to Santander requesting the mortgage  
monies be sent to them  for the 27 November  2018,  that being the date of completion.
Santander did send  the mortgage on that day to S but it wasnt received until 4.15pm. By 
then the contractual time for completion  had passed which  meant that Mr M and Miss I were 
in breach of contract with the people from whom they were buying  (the sellers). Because  S 
received the money late, they could not get it to the sellers solicitors in time for them  to use 
in their related  purchase, and that resulted in the sellers having  to go into hotel 
accommodation for the night. 
The sellers  solicitors said they would allow Mr M and Miss I to take possession  of their 
property, on the condition they were  responsible for the sellers  losses  flowing from the 
breach of contract.  The sellers solicitors  provided receipts for those losses  which amount to 
£1,253.32 and which they are claiming  from Mr M and Miss I. 
Santander said that the mortgage was in fact released on the 26 November at 8.00am but 
then it was held back for further checks.  So it wasnt actually sent to the sellers solicitors  
until the next day at 4.15pm. Santander  accepts that but think Mr M and Miss I were still able 
to complete, and so they dont consider there to have been  any loss. In addition Santander 
say they werent  party  to the agreement made between Mr M and Miss I and the sellers, and 
as such do not feel as though they have done  anything wrong since the monies were 
released on time and in accordance with the date requested  on the report on title.
Mr M and Miss I were unhappy with Santanders  response and so the adjudicator  looked  into 
the complaint  and thought  Santander had acted unfairly and that it ought to compensate  
Mr M and Miss I for the costs they had to pay. In addition he thought they should pay £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  As Santander didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr M and Miss I. I take into account both Santanders view and that of Mr M and Miss I.  
I consider the evidence  and reach  what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable 
decision based on that evidence. The purpose  of my decision is to reach a fair and 
Ref: DRN82761172reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  Looking at the available evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. 
S requested Santander to release the mortgage on the 20 November. The date they said 
they needed it for was the 27 November.  Santander, as is usual, arranged  to release the 
mortgage on the day before completion  so that S would  have  the money in good time to be 
able to forward it on to the sellers  solicitors, who in turn would  have then been able, in good 
time, to pass them onto the people their clients were buying from. 
The contract of sale stipulated a completion time of 2pm on the 27 November, and 
Santander would have known that as it is a standard term, used in every conveyancing 
contract. That is supported by the fact that they released the funds the day before and of 
course Santander is in the business of providing  mortgage advances.  As the mortgage  was 
not received by S until 4.15pm then that put Mr M and Miss I in breach of contract through 
no fault of their own. The reason that the mortgage was delayed  was because of Santander 
doing further checks after the mortgage had been released on the 26 November. So Im 
satisfied that the delay  in completion was caused  by Santander.
The contract contained terms providing  for the payment of reasonably  incurred costs in the 
event of a breach of contract. I have seen  evidence from the sellers solicitors  which  
confirms the costs of two nights overnight  accommodation for the sellers (£192), the cost of 
re-delivery of their furniture to their new home (£960) and expenses incurred in buying meals 
(£101.32), making  a total of £1,253.32. The sellers solicitors have confirmed that the reason  
the sellers required  two nights accommodation was that their removal company could not re-
deliver their belongings for two days.
I do therefore think that Santander should compensate Mr M and Miss I for their incurred 
proven loss of £1,253.32. I also think Santander should pay compensation of £200 to 
Mr M and Miss I to put matters right. I think that is a reasonable sum and in line with the 
awards this service would  make  for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  against  Santander.   So my decision is 
that Santander UK Plc should pay a total of £1,453.32 to Mr M and Miss I.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8276117