K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains about poor service from Scottish  Widows Limited when she took her
pension benefits.  She also complains that Scottish Widows withdrew without notice its offer
to allow  her to reinstate  her pension policy.
background
In 2015 Ms G wanted to take the benefits from her pension  on ill health grounds.  Scottish  
Widows didnt provide  financial advice to Ms G, but it discussed the options available to her. 
Ms G decided to encash her pension in full, and Scottish Widows made the payment  in April 
2015. There was a delay in making  the payment,  for which Scottish Widows paid 
compensation of £163.62.
The encashment meant  Ms G lost certain  state  benefits and she also had to pay tax of about 
£21,000. Ms G considered Scottish Widows had failed to properly advise her about  the 
implications of encashing the pension.  Ms G has specific health issues  which  meant she 
didnt fully understand what the encashment would mean, and she didnt think Scottish 
Widows had taken this into account.
Scottish Widows  accepted that in Ms Gs particular circumstances, it hadnt provided  her 
with enough support or made reasonable adjustments  to accommodate  her needs in making 
the pension decision. It paid compensation of £310 for the trouble and upset caused, which  it 
later increased by another £300.  
Scottish Widows  also said that if Ms G repaid the money shed received when the pension 
was encashed,  she could reinstate her original pension policy. This would allow  her to 
reassess her pension options  with appropriate support.
Scottish Widows  also accepted it had incorrectly valued Ms Gs pension  when it was 
encashed. But it said this would be corrected when Ms G reinstated her pension policy.
Scottish Widows  wasnt willing to refund the tax Ms G had paid.
Ms G made a number  of repayments  to Scottish  Widows, with a view to reinstating her 
pension policy. The total she needed  to repay was about £46,200 and by 4 December 2017 
shed paid £25,250. Scottish  Widows  queried  why the repayment was being  made  in 
instalments. Ms G asked  it to refund what shed paid so far, and said she would arrange for 
a lump sum to be paid.
Scottish Widows  was slow to return the money,  and paid Ms G £110.52 in compensation 
and lost interest.
On 20 December 2017 Scottish  Widows  told Ms G that it was withdrawing  its offer to allow 
her to reinstate the pension policy.
Our adjudicator concluded Scottish  Widows had acted fairly, and didnt recommend the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ms G didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions, so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 11 April 2019,  and I provisionally  upheld 
it. 
Ref: DRN86657192Given Ms Gs specific circumstances,  I thought  it was reasonable for Scottish Widows to 
have realised that withdrawing  its offer to reinstate her pension policy without notice would 
cause Ms G difficulties and distress. I said Scottish Widows should  pay Ms G £300 in 
addition to the £610 it had already  paid.
I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Scottish Widows to withdraw without notice its offer 
to reinstate Ms Gs pension policy. So I said Scottish Widows should reopen  its offer,  and 
give Ms G three months to make the necessary payment to reinstate the policy.
If Ms G wasnt able to make the payment within the time frame, I said Scottish Widows 
wasnt required to reinstate the policy.  But in those circumstances, it should pay £1,005.36 to 
Ms G, plus interest, being an additional  amount it shouldve paid when she encashed her 
pension.
 
Ms G responded to say, in summary, that she no longer has the money available  to reinstate 
the pension policy.  She also thought the length  of time Id suggested for reinstating  it was 
too short. Ms G didnt think the suggested compensation of £300  was enough in light of the 
distress Scottish Widows  had caused.
Ms G said she would be willing to accept a one-off payment from Scottish  Widows to settle  
her complaint.
Scottish Widows  said, in summary, that it had reservations about allowing Ms G to reinstate 
the pension policy,  given the amount of time that had passed since  shed encashed it. 
Scottish Widows  was concerned that Ms G may need to take money from other  assets to 
reinstate the policy  which  may be detrimental to her in the long term.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Ms Gs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Ive set 
out my reasoning  below. 
Ms G says that if shed  properly understood the implications of her pension options  in 2015, 
its likely  that she wouldve partially encashed her pension, rather  than taking the full amount 
in cash.
Scottish Widows  wasnt obliged  to provide financial  advice to Ms G. But given her specific 
health issues, it accepted that it shouldve provided sufficient support and adjustments  to 
make sure her needs were accommodated  when she made  her pension decision.  Scottish 
Widows paid a total of £610 in recognition  that its service wasnt  good  enough.  Keeping in 
mind the impact that Scottish Widows poor service had on Ms G, I think  that amount  is fair 
and reasonable.
More crucially for Ms G, Scottish Widows said that if she repaid the money shed received 
when the pension was encashed, the policy could be reinstated. This wouldve  allowed Ms G 
to reassess her pension  options with appropriate support.
Ref: DRN86657193Again, I think  that was fair because it wouldve put Ms G back  into the position she wouldve 
been in if Scottish  Widows had provided  appropriate  support at the outset.
But Ms G started to repay  what she owed in different  amounts.  I can see that Scottish 
Widows queried why the money was being paid in instalments, and Ms G explained it was 
because there was a limit on the amounts she could transfer from her bank account.  She 
also said to Scottish Widows:
Can you please return all payments. I will organise for one lump sum to be returned  in 
order to simplify  matters.
The money was refunded  to her in December  2017,  but at that point Scottish Widows said 
the option to reinstate the policy  was no longer available to Ms G. So Ive thought about 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Scottish  Widows to withdraw that offer without notice.
Scottish Widows  said it had concerns  that the piecemeal nature of Ms Gs repayments  
meant she didnt have the necessary  funds  to reinstate the pension policy.  It also considered 
it had given her enough  time to make the repayment, and that its offer wasnt open  
indefinitely.
Ive listened to calls between Ms G and Scottish Widows in which she discussed  the 
possibility of using  money from another pension  product she had, to reinstate the policy in 
question. 
Scottish Widows  told her it wasnt possible to make a direct  transfer  between  the pension 
products in this way. 
But in a call that I understand took place on 6 November  2017, Scottish  Widows  told Ms G 
she could take 25% tax free cash from a pension fund she was transferring to Scottish 
Widows. It said this money could be used  to reinstate the pension  policy.
I cant see that this option  was explored further  with Ms G before Scottish Widows withdrew 
its offer to reinstate the pension. It seems there wasnt  any discussion at all with Ms G after 
the payments  shed  made were refunded  and Scottish Widows withdrew its offer.
Im mindful of the very specific  health  issues Ms G has, and that Scottish Widows was aware 
of them.  Ive also kept in mind  that there seemed  to be ongoing  discussions and 
correspondence between  Scottish Widows and Ms G about  the money she intended to 
repay.
Given Ms Gs particular  circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Scottish 
Widows to realise that withdrawing its offer in the way that it did was likely to cause 
difficulties and distress for Ms G. So I consider it reasonable for Scottish Widows to pay a 
further £300 to Ms G for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
In addition, from what Ive seen and heard, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Scottish  
Widows to withdraw its offer to reinstate the policy without notice.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms G and Scottish Widows have said in response  to 
my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN86657194Ms G has told me that shes  not in a position to reinstate  the policy. In her circumstances, I 
can understand why she might consider  a one-off payment that reflects  her loss would be a 
more appropriate  form of settlement from Scottish  Widows.
But our approach is to put the customer back into the position they wouldve been in if there 
hadnt been an error by the business.  In this case, Scottish Widows withdrew the option  for 
Ms G to reinstate her pension policy without adequate notice.  
To put her back into the position  she wouldve been in, she should be given the opportunity 
to reinstate the policy. I remain of the view that three  months is a suitable length of time to 
do that, because  I think  thats a reasonable amount  of time for Ms G to arrange payment  if 
shes able to do so.
Ive noted everything  Scottish Widows has said, and I appreciate  its concerns about  the 
implications of reinstating the policy. But I consider  it is for Ms G (probably with third party 
support) to decide whether its appropriate  to reinstate it, should she find herself in a position 
to do so.
Given Ms Gs circumstances, if the policy is reinstated Scottish Widows will then need  to 
make sure it provides the support and reasonable adjustments to accommodate  her needs 
in making a decision about what to do with her pension. This is what  Scottish Widows 
shouldve done  when she first encashed  the pension.
But, ultimately, the decision about  what to do with the pension will be for Ms G. Its likely  that 
shell need to take independent  financial advice about the most appropriate  action to take.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  if Ms G isnt able to make the necessary payment 
for reinstatement  in time,  Scottish Widows wont be required to reinstate the policy.  It should 
then pay her the additional  money it failed to pay when  it incorrectly calculated  the 
encashment amount in 2015,  plus interest.  
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not persuaded to depart from the position set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Scottish Widows  Limited  to:
1.Allow Ms G to reinstate the pension  policy  that is the subject of this complaint. Ms G 
will have  three  months  from the date of settlement of this complaint to make  the 
payment required  to reinstate the policy.
If Ms G fails to make the payment in time, Scottish Widows is not required to
reinstate the policy. In those circumstances, Scottish Widows should  pay £1,005.36 
to Ms G, being the additional amount it shouldve paid if it had correctly  valued her 
pension in 2015.
Simple interest at 8% a year should be added to this amount, from the date it
shouldve been  paid to Ms G to the date that is six months from the date of
settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN866571952.Pay £300 to Ms G for the distress  and inconvenience this matter has caused, in 
addition to the compensation it has already paid.
Scottish Widows  must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Ms G accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If Scottish  Widows considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from the interest elements of this award, it should tell Ms G how much its taken 
off. It should  also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8665719