K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund  £11,000 of payments made  from 
their joint back  account that they didnt authorise.
background 
In April 2017, Mr and Mrs P were the victims of a scam. It is not in dispute that what  
happened to Mr and Mrs P was an act of fraud,  so I have  used  the term fraudster 
throughout to refer to the third party involved.
what have Mr and Mrs P said happened?
Mr and Mrs P have  said they received a telephone call from what  they thought was their 
bank, but turned out to be a fraudster. They were asked whether theyd received their new 
debit cards. When they said they hadnt, they were told that replacement cards would be 
sent out by courier.  The fraudster explained  that all bank customers  were receiving 
replacement cards because of a format  change.
A couple of days later,  the fraudster called Mr and Mrs P again to ask if they wanted  to keep 
their existing personal identification  numbers (PIN). They  elected to, and were asked if 
theyd received their replacement cards yet. They said they hadnt and were  told theyd 
arrive by courier the next day.
The next day, the fraudster called Mr and Mrs P again with the approximate  time of the 
couriers arrival.  The courier arrived casually  dressed on a very warm day and handed over 
two new cards in a sealed envelope  the replacement  cards were of a similar design to their 
old ones, with a long card number  across  the front of them. They  were  told their old cards 
had already been cancelled, and they put them into another envelope  which was sealed  and 
taken away by the courier. They signed an official looking declaration to confirm theyd 
received their replacement cards. They queried the process at the time, but were told it was 
the new procedure  for ensuring that cards  are safely destroyed.
They noticed  that the new cards  contained errors  such as a misspelled surname   after the 
courier had left. So they called the number on the back  of the cards, and spoke to a male. 
The line went dead but they received a call-back  from someone  who said the errors  would 
be corrected and new cards would be sent out by courier in a few days.
When they visited a branch  a couple of days after handing their debit cards  over to the 
courier, they discovered they had been  the victims of fraud. Funds had been transferred 
from their savings and investment accounts  to their joint bank account via telephone banking  
on several occasions (a fraudster had called up pretending to be Mr and Mrs P to make  
these transfers). And there  had been lots of payments made  from their joint bank account; all 
of which  they didnt authorise.
The fraud has been reported  to the police, and the fraudster has received a custodial 
sentence.
Ref: DRN83410892Mr and Mrs P also:
said that they didnt realise  they were  being scammed  at any point
explained that Mrs P shouted out her PIN to Mr P from another room whilst he was 
on the phone to the fraudster, but Mr P did not disclose his PIN to the fraudster at 
any time
questioned  why such unusual account  activity did not prompt  Lloyds to do more to 
protect their accounts
raised concerns  about the way in which Lloyds has handled this matter and their 
complaint
said this matter has caused them lots of stress and sleepless nights
what has Lloyds said?
Lloyds said that when the fraudster used telephone banking to transfer funds from 
Mr and Mrs Ps savings  and investment accounts  to their joint bank account, it did take them 
through security. But given how unusual the transfers were, it couldve done more  to prevent 
them. So it refunded all the payments made  out of Mr and Mrs Ps joint bank account using 
funds transferred from their savings  and investment accounts.
But the joint bank  account had a balance of just over £11,000  when the fraud began,  and it 
didnt agree to refund  the first five payments made from the account  amounting to £11,000 
 (the disputed  transactions) because it said:
Mr and Mrs P willingly  gave their debit cards to a third party
the replacement  cards Mr and Mrs P received from the courier had a gift card look 
to them
the disputed  transactions  were made using Mr and Mrs Ps debit cards and by 
entering the correct  PINs
Mr and Mrs P gave  the fraudster access to their joint bank  account,  and were grossly 
negligent
there were warnings on its website, telephone banking service and in the media 
about this type of scam at the time
what did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. They said there  were  a number of reasons why 
Mr and Mrs P shouldve  realised they were  being scammed, and they thought Mr and Mrs P 
had been grossly negligent.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree with this outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 4 September 2019. Ive set out my findings below.
I explained that Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And when considering what is fair 
and reasonable,  Im required  to take into account;  relevant law and regulations;  regulators 
rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice;  and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN83410893I considered the following to be the relevant regulations and terms and conditions  of the joint 
bank account,  and I took them into account.
relevant considerations
Lloyds is a Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  regulated firm. So the FCAs overarching 
Principles for Businesses apply, including the requirement to treat customers  fairly (Principle 
6).
The disputed transactions were made  in April 2017, so the Payment Services Regulations 
2009 (PSRs 2009)  are of particular relevance to my decision. Amongst other things, the 
PSRs 2009 say:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment  transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer  has given its consent to
(a)the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment  service  user in relation to payment  instruments
57.(1) A payment  service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the Terms and Conditions governing 
its issue and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the 
payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security  features safe.
Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service  user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been  correctly executed, it is for the 
payment service provider  to prove that a payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and not 
affected by a technical breakdown  or some other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its 
personalised security  features.
Ref: DRN83410894(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove either  that
(a)the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b)the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment  transactions
61. Subject to regulations 59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a)refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer; and
(b)where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state it would have 
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
62.(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised  payment transactions arising
(a)from the use of a lost or stolen  payment  instrument; or
(b)where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security  features of the payment 
instrument safe,  from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a)has acted fraudulently; or
(b)has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider. The Payment Services Directive itself (which the PSRs 2009  implement) says In 
the absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be 
unauthorised.
Ref: DRN83410895gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in the PSRs 2009 or in the Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances. The evidence  and 
degree of alleged negligence should generally  be evaluated according to national law. 
However, while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care,  gross 
negligence should mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a 
significant degree of carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise 
a payment transaction beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  
detectable by third parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting  out its role under the Payment  Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
we interpret gross negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of 
negligence under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant 
degree of carelessness.
Although neither of these  is directly relevant to this case, they are of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because  
they inform the meaning of a concept that has been in place for some time (in the Banking 
Code).
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The  Ardent)  [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed according to purely English principles of construction,  Gross  
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligenceas a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross negligence  seems  to me capable  of 
embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved,  but 
also serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care.  But as I have 
described above, gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes  significantly  beyond 
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider  whether  Mr and Mrs P fell so far below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person that it would be fair to say they failed with gross 
negligence to keep their personalised  security  details  safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of the joint bank account.
intent
Intent is not defined in the PSRs 2009 nor in the Payment Services  Directive. Ive therefore  
applied the natural meaning of intent - that being: something you want  and plan to do, a 
deliberate act.
Ref: DRN83410896This is also consistent with the FCAs 2013  guidance on the PSRs  2009, which gives a 
helpful indication  of the regulators view of what it means, and refers to:
8.108 a customer  who deliberately failed to comply with their obligations.
8.116 a customer  who has intentionally not  complied with their obligations...the 
burden of proof  lies with the payment service provider  the rejection must  be 
supported by sufficient evidence to prove that the customer  is guilty of  intentional 
breach.
The guidance also gives  an indication of the regulators view of whats  meant by taking all 
reasonable steps to keep  a payment instruments personalised security features safe at 
Regulation 57(2) of the PSRs 2009:
8.97 says What constitutes reasonable steps will depend  on the circumstances, 
but payment service  providers must say what steps they expect  customers  to take 
in their pre-contract  disclosure information.
I think what the PSRs  2009  mean is that when considering whether a payment service  user 
failed to comply with their obligations with intent,  the test I need to consider is whether they 
appreciated that by taking the actions  or inactions  they did, they would be failing to meet 
these obligations.
The terms and conditions  of the joint bank  account  broadly reflect the provisions in the 
PSRs 2009. They say:
2.2 You must:do all you reasonably can to prevent anyone else finding out your 
security details.
You should not:tell  anyone  your security details.
18.1 We will refund the amount of a paymentif:the payment was unauthorised.
19 You are not liable for any payments or withdrawals from your account that you do 
not authorise. If you are not liable for a payment,  we will refund  or pay the amount of the 
payment and any charges or interest  you paid or lost as a result of the payment. We will not 
have any further  liability. There are two exceptions to this rule:
1. If we can prove you acted fraudulently, you will be liable for all payments from the 
account that we could  not stop.
2. If we can prove you have been  grossly negligent  with your device or security details, you 
will be liable for payments from your account but only until you have told us your device or 
security details have been  lost, stolen or could  be misused.
key questions
With the above relevant considerations in mind, I thought there were two key questions  for 
me to decide  when  thinking about whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Did Mr and Mrs P authorise  the disputed transactions?
2.If they didnt, can Lloyds demonstrate that they failed with intent or gross  negligence 
to comply with the terms and conditions of their joint bank  account, or the obligations 
set out in regulation 57 of the PSRs 2009?
Ref: DRN83410897did Mr and Mrs P authorise the disputed  transactions?
I said that the disputed transactions can only be regarded as authorised by Mr and Mrs P if 
they made them themselves or gave  their consent  to the execution of them   that is, if they 
gave their permission  for them to be carried  out. Neither party  contends that the disputed  
transactions were  authorised. It is not disputed that Mr and Mrs P were the victims  of a 
scam. And overall, I wasnt persuaded that the disputed transactions  were  authorised.
So my starting point was that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Mr and Mrs P liable  for 
the disputed transactions unless they failed with intent or gross negligence to comply  with 
the terms and conditions of their joint bank account,  or the obligations set out in the PSRs  
2009.
can Lloyds demonstrate that Mr and Mrs P failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply 
with the terms and conditions of their joint bank account, or the obligations  set out in the 
PSRs 2009?
I explained that negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care.  And 
its fair to say that gross negligence involves a degree of negligence that is higher  then 
ordinary negligence. In this case,  I have to consider whether Mr and Mrs P fell so far below 
the standard expected  of a reasonable person that it would be fair to say they failed with 
gross negligence to keep their personalised security  details safe, or to comply  with the terms 
and conditions of their joint bank account.  And on balance, I didnt think they did.
I said that Mr and Mrs P have been  open and consistent in their story of what  happened.  
I thought their story  was plausible, and I found them persuasive. So I thought it was 
reasonable to rely on their recollections.
Mr and Mrs P have  admitted handing their debit cards over to the fraudster, in order to 
receive new cards as part of a larger card replacement exercise which they were  told Lloyds 
was carrying out. Lloyds has said the replacement  cards had a gift card look to them.  But it 
didnt give us any supporting evidence when  asked. And Mr and Mrs P have said the 
replacement cards were of a similar  design to their old ones. I said that a sophisticated  
fraudster gained Mr and Mrs Ps trust in a number of telephone conversations over several 
days, and offered explanations for what was happening that Mr and Mrs P found  acceptable  
and convincing. And Mr and Mrs P were  put at ease by some of the processes  the fraudster 
put in place  such as asking them to sign what looked like official documents and answering  
calls they made to the number on the reverse of their replacement cards.
I saw evidence that both PINs were used alongside  Mr and Mrs Ps debit cards to make  the 
disputed transactions.  But from what Id seen,  I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs P didnt 
intentionally give their PINs to the fraudster. Theyve  said that Mrs P shouted  her PIN out to 
Mr P whilst he was on the phone to the fraudster, albeit from another room  so I thought it 
was possible this is how the fraudster came to know her PIN. And I believed  what Mr P has 
said about not recalling, or not realising  he was giving his PIN to the fraudster.
Mr Ps said his PIN was the same, random number that Lloyds gave him, so I didnt think  it 
was likely the fraudster  could have worked  out what it was using other information they knew  
about him. And I hadnt  seen that there was any reasonable  opportunity  for the fraudster to 
observe Mr Ps PIN. I said that as far as I know, Lloyds  wouldnt have kept a record of the 
PIN. And in the absence of any other explanation, I thought it was most likely that the 
Ref: DRN83410898fraudster came to know the PIN from talking to Mr and Mrs P. I said its possible that they 
were tricked  into saying the PIN aloud,  or that it was given  over in a similar way to Mrs Ps 
PIN. Its also possible that Mr and Mrs P gave  the fraudster the full PIN, in parts,  by 
answering security questions in the several telephone conversations that took place.
I said Im satisfied  that gross negligence  should  involve a very significant degree of 
carelessness. It is not enough  to say that someone  is grossly  negligent simply because  they 
shared their security details. Careful  consideration needs to be given to the circumstances 
under which those details were  shared.
Looking at everything, I thought that Mr and Mrs P fell for a number of tricks that led to them 
handing over access  to their joint bank  account and their personalised security  details  to the 
fraudster. I believed that they genuinely  thought they were dealing  with their bank, so had no 
reason to think their information wasnt safe, or that there was any risk in the actions they 
were taking.
Lloyds has said there were warnings on its website,  telephone banking  service and in the 
media about this type of scam at the time Mr and Mrs P were  defrauded. But even if 
Mr and Mrs P engaged with these  warnings,  I didnt  think it followed that they were grossly 
negligent for falling for the scam. Nor did I think it would be fair to say they were  grossly 
negligent if they didnt engage with the warnings  and then fell victim to fraud. I thought it was 
good practice for Lloyds to seek to educate its customers through  a number of channels  as 
part of its strategy to prevent them falling victim to the type of fraud which Mr and Mrs P 
experienced. But I said the steps  taken by Lloyds dont  provide a basis  for saying it isnt 
responsible for any losses arising  from fraud. The circumstances in which the fraud occurred 
must be considered.
Overall, I didnt  believe that Mr and Mrs P suspected they were being scammed. I didnt think  
they showed a serious  disregard or indifference to an obvious risk in this matter  I wasnt  
persuaded that they perceived  any risk. I didnt think it could reasonably be said that they 
were more than careless, and I wasnt satisfied that their actions fell so far below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person in this case that they could  be said to have been 
grossly negligent  in the circumstances.
other considerations 
Mr and Mrs P have  questioned why such  unusual account activity didnt prompt  Lloyds to do 
more to protect their accounts. I thought theyd raised this argument in an effort  to show  that 
Lloyds should  have detected and prevented the fraud, and so should refund the disputed 
transactions. I agreed that there was some unusual  activity  on Mr and Mrs Ps accounts,  but 
I didnt go on to consider  this further  or in more detail, because  I was upholding the 
complaint for other reasons.
Mr and Mrs P also raised some concerns about the way in which  Lloyds handled this matter  
and their complaint.  And they said this situation has caused them  a lot of stress and 
sleepless nights. I was sure this has been a very worrying time for them, and I understood 
that its been an ongoing concern throughout the time theyve been without their funds. 
Considering everything, I thought Lloyds should pay some compensation for Mr and Mrs Ps 
trouble and upset  in this matter, and I thought £300  would  be a fair amount.
Ref: DRN83410899my provisional decision
I provisionally decided  that Lloyds should:
credit  the joint bank account  with £11,000, and pay interest on that amount at a rate 
of 8% simple per year,  from the date of the disputed transactions to the date of 
settlement (I said that if Lloyds deducts  tax from the interest  element then it should 
provide an appropriate  tax deduction  certificate)
if it hasnt done  so already, return the savings  and investment accounts to the 
position they would be in if the fraudster hadnt  transferred funds out of them,  
including refunding any lost interest  or rates that wouldve applied  if the money had 
remained in the accounts
pay £300 for Mr and Mrs Ps trouble and upset in this matter
I said that the terms and conditions  of the joint bank account dont set out that account 
holders can be held liable for the first £50 of their loss under the PSRs  2009. So I didnt  
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to seek to rely on this.
I invited Mrs P and Lloyds to send  me any further comments or information they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
In summary,  Mrs P responded  to say that Mr P did not, at any time, give his PIN to the 
fraudster. He couldnt remember his PIN and he had to find it and write it down whenever it 
was needed for a cash withdrawal  his written  note of the PIN was always destroyed.
Lloyds said it is willing to settle this complaint but it:
noted that the joint bank account  has now been  closed,  and offered  to pay into 
another account of Mrs Ps choice instead
said it had already returned the savings and investment  accounts  to the position they 
were in before the fraud occurred
questioned  my award of 8% simple  annual interest on the £11,000 as it said theres  
no indication that higher borrowing costs  were incurred because  Mr and Mrs P were 
deprived of these funds,  and this is the usual  benchmark  for the use of this rate
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding  to my provisional decision, I dont think  either party has given me any new 
information that would change my conclusions. 
Mr and Mrs P have  always  said that Mr Ps PIN was not given over to the fraudster at any 
time. And, as Ive said in my provisional  decision, I believe that they dont recall  giving  it to 
the fraudster, or they didnt realise they were  giving it over. But I remain of the opinion that 
its most  likely the fraudster came to know the PIN from talking to Mr and Mrs P for the 
reasons Ive already explained.
Ref: DRN834108910Lloyds has questioned my award of interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on the £11,000. 
To clarify, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P have been  left out of pocket in this matter.  They  
were deprived of the opportunity to use £11,000 that had been held in their joint bank 
account for some time. I cant say what they wouldve done with these funds if theyd had 
them available to use. But Im satisfied that having  the funds available  may have  influenced 
a range of decisions about spending and borrowing over time. And the interest  award isnt 
just intended to reflect higher borrowing costs incurred or lost opportunities to save  or invest  
 it acknowledges  that Mr and Mrs P might  have gone without other  things they needed or 
wouldve benefitted from because they didnt have their money available  to spend.
The interest award is at the current statutory rate on judgement debts. And I havent seen 
anything that persuades  me that its not a fair rate, or that it would be fairer to use a different 
rate of interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should:
pay Mrs P £11,000, and pay interest on that amount  at a rate of 8% simple  per year, 
from the date of the disputed transactions to the date of settlement (if Lloyds deducts 
tax from the interest element then it should provide an appropriate  tax deduction 
certificate)
if it hasnt done  so already, return the savings  and investment accounts to the 
position they would be in if the fraudster hadnt  transferred funds out of them,  
including refunding any lost interest  or rates that wouldve applied  if the money had 
remained in the accounts
pay £300 for Mr and Mrs Ps trouble and upset in this matter 
The terms and conditions  of the joint bank account  dont  set out that account  holders can be 
held liable  for the first £50 of their loss under the PSRs 2009. So I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds Bank PLC to seek to rely on this.
Mrs P should indicate whether she prefers Lloyds Bank PLC to pay her via a cheque  or a 
bank transfer  into the account of her choice  in responding to my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8341089