K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about a charge applied by Lloyds Bank PLC on his investment that was held 
with another business. 
Mr D is unhappy about the time it took Lloyds  to remove this charge,  and the overall poor 
service hes received achieving this. 
background
Lloyds upheld the complaint and acknowledged  that it had provided Mr D with a poor 
service. It offered Mr D £500  compensation  for the trouble and upset caused. Mr D was 
unhappy with the offer and referred the complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didn't think  it should  be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
On 23 January 2018, Mr D got in touch with Lloyds about his issue.  On 1 February 
2018 it sent a letter  to the other business confirming that it didnt have a charge over 
Mr Ds investment. 
Lloyds took around  five to ten days to review the matter,  before it was in a position to 
declare and confirm  that it had no interest in the investment.  The timeframe in 
dealing with this, given that it was a historic matter, wasnt  unreasonable.  
Because it was an old matter,  it wasnt possible  to find out why Lloyds had taken  out 
the charge on the investment in the first place.  
The matter was urgent and Mr D wasn't  given clear information at the 
outset. However, Lloyds offer to pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset, 
plus the cost of the phone calls, was fair and reasonable.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view.  He thought the view was premature because  he 
hadn't provided the full details of what had happened. 
Mr D provided  a detailed  response, along  with a schedule  of documents in support of his 
complaint. But in summary, he made  the following key observations:
On 23 January 2018, he contacted  Lloyds  because  it had a charge (dating back  to 
August 1981) on an investment  that he held with another business. He had no idea 
why this was, and Lloyds still held a charge  37 years on. 
The charge  was illegal and should be lifted urgently. 
He made  clear to Lloyds that he had a very limited window of opportunity within  
which he could invest the funds that it had a charge over. And also to allow the other  
business sufficient  time to deal with the letter  of assignment, and transfer those funds  
to his stockbroker.  
It took Lloyds two weeks to sort out the issue and not one. 
The request  could and should  have been dealt  with by Lloyds quickly  by a single 
phone call. It should have known that his old current account was closed.  
Hes made a substantial number of calls, many  lasting over an hour, to a number of 
Lloyds staff members who were unhelpful, rude or just incompetent. Hes had to 
explain his situation from the start each time, to the different staff members.
Eventually, when  Lloyds did respond it didn't even provide him with a copy of the 
letter. 
His loss is made  up of three parts: 
Ref: DRN89605652oWasted time. 
oInvestment losses. 
oCost of calls incurred.
Having considered all the additional points, listened  to some telephone calls between  Mr D 
and the business, the investigator wasn't  persuaded to change his mind. Whilst he 
appreciates Lloyds has caused  Mr D trouble and upset, Lloyds didnt actually  have a charge 
over his investment,  hes satisfied the compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.   
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr D and Lloyds, and reach what  I think  is an independent,  fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Lloyds rightly upholds  this complaint. The key issue for me to consider is redress,  and 
whether (or not) whats been offered by Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst on the face of it, the solution  to the problem might appear simple to Mr D. Im afraid 
its not always so, when dealing with large financial institutions that have their own internal 
policies and procedures  that have to be followed. I wouldn't  expect the business to just take 
Mr Ds word for it without any recourse to its own checks. Rather it has to be satisfied with its 
complains with regulations, as the consequences  of not doing  so would have meant  a 
breach of one or more of the many financial regulations.    
That said more could  have been  done to explain this to Mr D and manage  his expectations 
from the very beginning. I appreciate Mr D is understandably upset and angry,  that this 
wasn't done sooner, and that many of his questions and concerns remained unanswered. 
Businesses aren't  generally  required to keep  policy information/documentation  for more than 
six years. So Im not surprised that the business  didnt have the information at its fingertips  
and a lot sooner, especially when  an investment has been surrendered and accounts closed. 
Ref: DRN89605653This may explain why, having established that it no longer held a charge  on Mr Ds 
investment it was unable  to answer why there was a charge in the first place and why it had 
continued for so long.  However this doesn't prevent me from making a decision in this case. 
Im conscious that Mr D and the other  business also don't know  why there  is a charge on his 
investment. What is clear  is that Lloyds didn't have a charge on the investment, so its 
possible that a third party hadn't updated  its records.  Im not saying that was the case  but its 
possible. 
I appreciate Mr Ds matter was urgent, but Im not sure, despite what he says,  the business  
can be blamed for not meeting the invest window. Im not blaming Mr D for this, the 
circumstances are what they are, but I cant  blame the business for this either.  Had this 
situation arose in relation to a charge from only a few years  ago, its possible things would 
have moved along  a lot quicker.  
In the overall circumstances,  I think Lloyds offer to pay £500 compensation for trouble and 
upset along with the reasonable  cost of the telephone calls is fair and reasonable. It may 
have to issue a new cheque if the old issue is out of date.
Im mindful of Mr Ds comments about  the investment loss. But Im not persuaded that this 
was a consequential loss for which Lloyds is responsible. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  Lloyds to do anything  more.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  Im unable  to uphold  this complaint 
and give Mr D what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN89605654Lloyds Bank  PLC has offered to pay Mr D £500  compensation for trouble and upset and the 
reasonable cost of the telephones. I think the offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8960565