K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2011 and a Platinum account  in 2012. Hes used a Claims Management 
Company (CMC) to make this complaint.  
background
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint  already  and they did not think that these 
accounts were mis-sold.  Mr Ds representative did not agree  with this and therefore this 
complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ds complaint. Having done so, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Silver and Platinum accounts to Mr D. Id like to explain why I think  thats the case. 
Firstly, I will consider whether Mr D was given a fair choice to take out these accounts. I can 
see that Mr D had held a free account for several  years with Lloyds prior to the first upgrade 
so I think that he would have been reasonably  aware  that Lloyds did free accounts and they 
were an option for him.
Mr D has said that he thought he had taken out a fee-free account and he did not ask for a 
paid for account.  But as stated above  he already held a fee free account with Lloyds for 
several years and I can see that he signed  an application forms to change  his account to the 
Silver and then Platinum  account. Mr D has not explained what he was told that made him 
agree to change  his account on two separate occasions, if all that he wanted  was a fee-free 
account that he already held. So overall,  I think that its more likely  that he agreed to these 
accounts knowing he did not have to as something attracted him to these  accounts.
Lloyds and Mr D have  said that the Silver account  was recommended to Mr D. Due to this 
Lloyds had to ensure  that the account was right for him. In this instance the major benefits 
that the account came with were European  travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile 
phone insurance.  I note that Mr D has said that he did not travel, did not own a car and did 
not own a smart phone.  However, I can see that there is evidence  of travel  shortly  after the 
account was taken and periodically  during  the time the account  was held. And I can see 
payments to mobile  phone providers. So, I think that its possible he couldve found the travel 
insurance and mobile phone  insurance  benefit  useful.  This is the cheapest  account that was 
available that had these benefits. Therefore, I dont think that Lloyds recommendation was 
inappropriate.
In relation to the Platinum account,  again both parties agree that the account was 
recommended to Mr D. In this instance  the benefits  that this account came with included 
Worldwide travel insurance,  enhanced breakdown cover, mobile  phone  insurance and 
importantly, reduced interest rates on overdraft facilities.  Overall,  I think  that Mr D could use 
some of these benefits and additionally given his overdraft usage at the time of the upgrade, 
I think that this benefit alone could potentially have outweighed  the cost of upgrading to this 
account. Given this I dont think that Lloyds recommendation was unreasonable.
Ref: DRN81129382I accept that Mr D may not have been  told everything about all of the benefits that the 
accounts came with, but I cannot see anything specific  that he was not told that I think 
wouldve altered  his decision to take out the accounts. Mr D may now,  with the benefit of 
hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted  from the account as much he had hoped and 
expected when he initially took it out. And given what he may have read and heard about  
packaged accounts, I can understand why he might  now believe this account was mis-sold. 
But I dont think he was misled into taking it. So I want to reassure Mr D that having looked  
at everything provided and thought  about  what hes said, I dont think Lloyds  mis-sold  the 
Silver and Platinum accounts to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8112938