K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that hes not been able to access his HSBC UK Bank  Plc account  for a 
number of months. This has caused him considerable distress and inconvenience.
background
Mr P lives overseas. Hed not been  able to get online access to his HSBC account since the 
beginning of 2018. The bank had blocked the secure keypad Mr P used to log on. Mr P said 
the battery  in the keypad had begun to run down.  So HSBC  said itd send a replacement. 
But even though hed sent a change of address it sent the replacement  to his old address. 
Mr P said he couldnt use telephone  banking  as hes very hard of hearing  and partially 
sighted. So he wanted HSBC to send  the activation code and keypad with the correct  
labelling to avoid  any custom problems  receiving it. And Mr P would like substantial 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
HSBC said its records showed  Mr P lived overseas. But the bank hadnt  received his letter 
saying hed moved to a different address. So the bank  sent the replacement keypad  to the 
address it had on file. HSBC said it had some difficulties arranging another  delivery  once itd 
received confirmation  of Mr Ps new address. However a further keypad and activation code 
were sent at the end of May. And the bank tried to offer Mr P different ways of accessing his 
account which might be more suitable  in the circumstances.  HSBC  said itd paid Mr P £200  
compensation for the delays in receiving the replacement keypad. And it could see hed 
been able to access his account  online since October.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with HSBCs response. So he contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She checked  HSBCs records  and Mr Ps recollection of 
events and supporting information. She felt hed first contacted the bank about his failing 
keypad in February  2018. But HSBC had sent the replacement keypad  and access details to 
his previous location. It hadnt received his change of address. 
HSBC updated  its records following further  contact with Mr P and a secure  code was sent by 
SMS in March 2018. Codes had also been sent by post on two occasions  in May 2018.  And 
a replacement keypad was sent at the end of May. So she couldnt say HSBC  had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Mr P did receive a replacement keypad in September  2018 
although HSBC  didnt have a record of sending one at that time. So she felt it was possible 
one of the earlier attempts may have finally been  delivered.
Our adjudicator appreciated the inconvenience and difficulty Mr P had been through  while  he 
waited for his replacement. And she thought the service provided by HSBC  couldve been 
better. But she felt the bank had made several  attempts to send  the new keypad. And itd 
offered different ways for him to access  his account  but hadnt received a response. So she 
felt the £200 compensation paid by HSBC was fair and reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  The basic problem had 
been caused by HSBC  deactivating his existing keypad before hed received the 
replacement. The bank  had promised to use a courier postal service  for a quick  delivery.  But 
Mr P wasnt  convinced thatd been the case.  And itd clearly  taken a long time to arrive.  
Ref: DRN87096862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator provided a detailed background during her initial view. And Mr P has 
discussed the points in her findings he doesnt  agree with. So I wont repeat all of the 
specific details here.  But it is important to determine why it took from February until 
September for Mr P to receive his replacement keypad. And if HSBC  made  any mistakes 
what it should do to put things right.
Mr P lives overseas. He has sight and hearing  difficulties so he cant use telephone  or texts 
to contact the bank.  HSBC is aware of his circumstances. And its important Mr P has the 
right tools  to manage his finances and pay for any ongoing expenses. But something went  
wrong. So Ive looked  very carefully at everything  thats happened.
When the battery in Mr Ps keypad  began to fail he requested a replacement. But HSBC 
hadnt received  Mr Ps change of address and it was sent to his previous location. Mr P said 
he returned to that address but there  was no sign of his keypad.
I can see Mr P was able to contact HSBC  using the online  chat facility. And he had a number 
of conversations with the local branch manager. HSBC received confirmation  of his new 
address in April 2018. And Mr P was told a new keypad would be sent out. But it seems the 
delivery company  initially declined  to send the parcel  to Mr Ps new address. I can see Mr P 
contacted the company himself to find out why it wouldnt deliver to his country of residence.  
And after a short delay HSBC arranged for another keypad to be sent to Mr Ps correct 
address in May 2018. It shouldve  taken  about  48 hours to arrive. But Mr P didnt receive  the 
keypad. 
Mr P finally received a replacement four months  later. The packaging  states it was shipped  
on 24 September and delivered 2 days later. HSBC says it doesnt have a record  of sending  
one at that time. But its arrival did allow Mr P to finally regain access.
Mr P says at lot of the distress and inconvenience  couldve been avoided it HSBC  hadnt 
cancelled his old keypad before hed received the replacement. And I can understand his 
frustration. HSBC has explained its policy is to deactivate an existing  keypad  if its reported 
lost or not working. And if a customer reports a failing battery the original keypad continues 
to work for 30 days while the replacement is ordered  and delivered.
Ive not seen anything to suggest HSBC received Mr Ps initial letter  in February  2018  to say 
hed changed  address.  So that led to some  delay while Mr P travelled  to his previous 
residence and then informed the bank the replacement keypad wasnt there. I understand 
the authorisation letter had arrived at that address. So that confirms  HSBC  did respond  to 
the request for a replacement  keypad. And I cant really  hold the bank responsible for not 
receiving Mr Ps change of address letter or for the postal service not delivering the 
replacement keypad   even if it was to the old address.
So I cant say HSBC  hasnt followed its procedures properly. HSBC did respond quickly. But 
the first replacement was sent to the address it had on file. If HSBC hadnt  had any problems 
delivering to Mr Ps new address I wouldve expected the replacement  to arrive within the 30 
day period while his old keypad  still worked. And I dont  think its unreasonable for the bank  
to deactivate old keypads after a while for security  reasons.
Ref: DRN87096863Mr P has vision and hearing difficulties and was without access  to his bank account for a 
number of months. And hes explained how difficult this made it for him and how he had to 
rely on high-interest  savings while he regained access. I dont underestimate the distress 
and upset this has caused Mr P. It mustve been  a very frustrating and exhausting  
experience. But I can see HSBC did suggest  alternative ways for Mr P to use its services, 
including an interactive sign video and sign language service. 
HSBC also sent a number of replacement  keypads to Mr P. And as Ive said I cant  really 
hold it responsible for the difficulties involved in receiving  and delivery instructions through 
the postal system  especially  when overseas services  are involved. Unfortunately  it isnt 
always as easy for the bank or its customers to manage  things when the customer lives 
overseas.
HSBC said they dont have a record of requesting  the package sent to Mr P in September 
2018. But Mr P has shown both the posting and delivery dates confirm  that the delivery 
company carried out the transfer during that period. Im not able to determine why this 
particular keypad  was delivered when  others  had failed - or when this particular delivery was 
originally requested by the bank. But Ive not seen anything to suggest the bank wasnt  trying 
to help Mr P. Its system  notes show numerous attempts to try and resolve the issue.
I do understand Mr Ps frustration that there isnt a clear explanation as to why it took so long 
to resolve this matter.  And I appreciate the difficulties this has caused him. But the role of 
this service is to see if HSBC has done  anything wrong. And if so what  it needs  to do to put 
things right. 
Im pleased to see Mr P can now access his account again. And HSBC has offered Mr P 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced during  the delay in restoring  
his online  access.  I realise Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think  thats a 
fair and reasonable response  in the circumstances. And I wont  be asking the bank to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8709686