K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  service  after he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr S car was damaged in an accident. In August 2016 he claimed on his policy  and 
Advantage said the car was a total loss. Advantage valued the car at £1,200.  It tried to 
contact Mr S but noted that the phone number it had on its system was missing  a digit. Mr S 
then phoned Advantage to discuss the claim.  In that call he told it that as he doesn't always 
receive his post it should send all correspondence  by email.
There was then very little action on the claim until May 2017 when Mr S contacted 
Advantage and disputed  its valuation of his car. It seems that Advantage told Mr S it would 
be in touch but Mr S didn't receive any contact from it for another  year, when Mr S 
complained. In August 2018  Advantage eventually  increased its valuation to £2,214  and 
offered Mr S £100  compensation for the impact of its delays.
Mr S didn't  think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. At that point 
Advantage offered to increase the compensation by £200 and pay Mr S interest of £120.90. 
Our investigator didn't think that was fair. She said that Advantage should pay Mr S £500 
compensation in total as well as the £120.90  interest.
Advantage didn't agree  so the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
From the date of Mr S claim to the date Advantage paid him his total loss settlement was a 
little over two years.  That clearly isn't an acceptable  time-frame in which to settle a 
reasonably straightforward claim. Advantage ran into problems because it didn't have Mr S 
full telephone number. But it had noted that before Mr S rang it to ask about the claim in 
August 2016.  So, it should have updated his telephone number at that point but didn't do so.
Further its also apparent  that Mr S didn't  respond  to some letters Advantage had posted to 
him. But by that time Mr S had told Advantage that he didn't  always receive post.  So it 
needed to send any correspondence to him by email. But it didn't do so. And I think that's the 
reason that Mr S didn't  get back to Advantage. Because he didn't know  it was waiting for him 
to contact it. I accept that Mr S could have been  more proactive about contacting Advantage 
himself. But Mr S paid a premium for Advantage to provide a service.  And Mr S has 
explained that he spent some time out of the country. It follows I think  the onus was on 
Advantage to progress  matters not Mr S.
Advantage told us that it has recognised its delays when it offered  Mr S £2,214 to settle his 
claim, as this is the highest value given  by the industry trade  guides. It said that the car had 
previously been  found to be a total loss and that it had some  pre-existing damage which  
would have dropped its value, which is why it initially offered Mr S £1,200  for the car. I agree 
Ref: DRN82587842that pre-existing damage and the car having been  a total loss before would usually affect  a 
cars value.  But I note that Advantage didn't  refer to increasing the value of the car because  
of the impact  of its delays  when it responded to Mr S complaint. Instead it initially  said it 
would pay £100  compensation  to address the impact of its delays.  Also, Mr S has been  
without his car for over two years. He didn't  have  a replacement during that time and instead 
had to pay to use public  transport etc. So I've factored that in when thinking about whether  
what Advantage has already done  to put things right goes far enough.  And Mr S has told us 
that Advantages handling of his claim has added to his depression.  So, having considered 
the loss of use of his car and the impact of the delays on him, in the specific  circumstances 
of this complaint,  I don't  think  Advantages offer of compensation is enough to address Mr S 
concerns. So I think  it should  pay him a total of £500 in compensation on top of the £120.90  
interest it had previously offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
compensate Mr S in the sum of £500  in total for his distress and inconvenience  
arising from its handling of his claim.  This should be paid within 28 days of us telling  
them that Mr S has accepted my final decision. If it pays  later than that it must also 
pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
pay Mr S the £120.90 interest it had previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should  also give him a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8258784