K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined  a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr P and his partner went on holiday.  Very early on in the holiday Mr P became  unwell  with 
a stomach bug. He says this began on the 28 October 2018. His partner bought some 
medication from a pharmacy on the same date. Mr P didnt go to the Doctor.  However, hes 
explained he was confined to his room  for most of the holiday and it was ruined. 
Mr P first spoke to AXA on 1 November  2018,  by which  point his partner  had also become 
unwell with the same issue. He says he was told that hed need to go to Doctor to confirm he 
was ill and the policy excess was £40. He was also told to make  a claim so he contacted the 
claims department on the same day. During  that call he queried what he was actually 
covered for and whether  it was worth him finding  a Doctor and getting a medical  report. 
The claim for the medication  was declined on the basis it cost less than the policy  excess. A 
second claim, for Mr P being  confined to his room,  was declined because, in summary, Mr P 
didnt meet the policy criteria for the benefit to be paid. 
Mr P made a complaint. He was unhappy  AXA had said it wasnt  medically necessary for 
him to stay in his room and that the claim was declined. In their final response  letter  AXA 
said the insurance covered Mr P for unused accommodation expenses if he was advised by 
a medical practitioner  to return home  early or confined to his room. They said that there  was 
no medical evidence  and Mr P hadnt  sought medical attention.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think it was unreasonable for AXA to decline the claim as Mr P hadnt  been directed to stay 
in his room by a medical practitioner. He acknowledged  that Mr P did speak  to AXA about  
possibly getting  a medical report  on 1 November. But the investigator said by this point Mr P 
had already been confined to his room for a number  of days which wasnt on the orders  of a 
doctor and we couldnt know whether the doctor  would have confined Mr P to his room at 
that point in time.
Mr P didnt agree. In summary, hes unhappy  because AXA didnt  tell him he could  claim for 
being confined  to his room and because they wrote  to him saying that it wasnt  medically 
necessary for him to stay in his room. 
Our investigator contacted Mr P and let him know my initial  thoughts about his complaint. 
Mr P responded to say he thought £250 compensation would be reasonable as AXA were  
grossly negligent.  So I need to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Ref: DRN86452482We will pay you £50 for every complete  24 hours you have to stay in hospital as an 
in-patient or are confined  to your accommodation  due to your compulsory quarantine 
or on the orders of a medical practitioner  outside your home area, up to a maximum 
of £1000 as a result of bodily injury, illness or disease you sustain. 
We will pay the amount above  in addition to any amount payable  under Section B  
Emergency medical,  additional accommodation  and travelling costs. This payment is 
meant to help you pay for additional expenses such as taxi fares  and phone calls 
incurred by your visitors during your stay in hospital
Special Conditions
You must give notice  as soon as possible to AXA Assistance of any bodily injury or 
illness which  necessitates  your admittance to hospital as an in-patient,  compulsory 
quarantine or confinement  to your accommodation on the orders  of a Medical  
Practitioner. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say AXA should handle claims promptly and fairly.  
And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably.  Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint because:
Mr P wasnt confined  to his room on the orders of a medical practitioner. I understand 
that he was unwell and this lasted  for most of the holiday. But he didnt visit a doctor  
and wasnt ordered to stay in his room;
The first call, between  Mr P and the assistance team,  isnt available. But Mr P 
confirmed in his complaint form that he was told he would need  to go to a Doctors 
and get them to confirm he was ill;
Ive listened  to the call which Mr P had with the claims team at AXA on 1 November.  I 
appreciate Mr P was asking what he could actually claim  for and whether he should 
get a medical  report. But, by this point,  hed already  been confined to his room for 
around four days. So, even if Mr P had been told to get a report I think  its unlikely it 
wouldve changed the outcome of this claim. Thats because  a doctor hadnt ordered 
Mr P to stay in his room  during  the period of time he wants  to claim for; 
The advisor did say that because Mr P had been confined  to his room  there  may be a 
benefit that was added  on. However she said she wouldnt be able to confirm cover 
until the claim had been  assessed.  I think Mr P couldve been given better guidance 
during that call, as he really wanted  to know what he could  claim for and whether it 
was worth him getting in touch with a doctor. But any claim still would have been 
subject to Mr P being ordered to stay in his room by the doctor.  Mr P confirmed in his 
correspondence that he was able to leave the room on the day after he spoke to AXA 
and they were able to return  home  as planned;  
Mr P says it was rude and insulting of AXA to suggest it wasnt  medically necessary 
for him to stay in his room. I can understand why this upset him as his holiday had 
been ruined by his illness.  But I think AXA were reflecting what was said in the policy 
terms  that confinement  must be ordered  by a medical practitioner in order to pay 
the policy benefit;  
The claim for the medication  was for around  £12. As the excess  was £40 I dont think 
it was unreasonable to decline  the other claim on that basis.  
Ref: DRN86452483my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8645248