K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F complains Clydesdale  Bank  Plc wont refund an Automated  Teller Machine  (ATM) 
withdrawal which debited  her current account even though  she says she didnt receive  the 
cash.  
Background
Mrs F made a cash machine withdrawal of £110  on 9 June 2018.  She says the money did 
not dispense.  Mrs F contacted Clydesdale to ask that the money was refunded  but it refused 
to do so. Clydesdale said it had contacted the owner of the ATM which provided evidence 
which indicated the cash was dispensed  correctly.  
Mrs F wasnt happy with Clydesdales response  and an investigator looked into her 
complaint. He said, in summary, that Clydesdale  had contacted  the ATM owner  and asked 
for information relating to Mrs Fs transaction  which is what wed expect it to do in the 
circumstances. And that information indicated it was more  likely than not that the cash had 
dispensed correctly.  So he didnt think Clydesdale should refund the £110. 
Mrs F didnt  agree. She said in response to our investigators view that the machine had 
displayed a message saying  insufficient funds,  contact  your bank during the failed 
transaction. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman as she said 
£110 is a lot of money to her. So the complaints  been passed  to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The ATM Mrs F used  wasnt one that belonged to Clydesdale. So, as the Investigator  
explained, wed expect  it to contact the ATM owner  and ask for information to show  whether 
or not there was a problem  with the machine and whether  the cash  was dispensed or not. 
Which is what Clydesdale  did. If the information it received showed, or indicated  it was more  
likely than not, the cash wasnt dispensed  correctly   wed expect  Clydesdale to refund the 
withdrawal amount. 
The information Clydesdale  received, which Ive reviewed, shows  that Mrs Fs withdrawal 
was successfully approved. Which  means it was authorised by her bank.  Mrs F says there 
was a message  saying  insufficient funds,  please contact your bank. But I can see that she 
did have enough  money in her account to make the withdrawal of £110 and that it was 
authorised  so I dont  know  why she wouldve seen this message. But I dont  think its 
because her own bank  stopped the transaction or because  she had insufficient funds. 
The information from the ATM owner also indicates that the right number and denomination  
of notes was dispensed  at the time of Mrs Fs withdrawal. The information also shows  that 
the withdrawals that took place before and after Mrs Fs were completed successfully as well 
and within  seconds  of Mrs Fs  which further indicates there wasnt a problem with the 
machine on the day in question. 
If Mrs Fs money had been  dispensed but not taken straight away  I would expect to see 
the records show that the cash had been retracted and dropped  into the purge bin. But the 
Ref: DRN83785292purge bin records  dont show a corresponding amount for Mrs Fs transaction. The ATM  
wasnt balanced until 17 June but when this was done there was found to be a surplus of 
£70 in the machine. The ATM owners information  shows this £70 was in relation to another 
transaction  which took place on a different day. So I dont think this is likely to be related to 
Mrs Fs transaction. 
I appreciate Mrs Fs strength of feeling  because its a lot of money for her to lose. But based 
on the information Ive seen, I think its more  likely  than not the money was correctly  
dispensed. Thats not say that Mrs F hasnt lost out, just that in the circumstances I dont 
think Clydesdale need to refund Mrs F as shes asked. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8378529