K820x#14Complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about how FirstRand Bank  Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance) dealt 
with an issue with his direct debit.
Background
Mr B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement in December 2016.  The agreement  required 
monthly payments  of around £73 from January  2017. Payments  were  made by direct debit 
until September 2018 at which time Mr B contacted Motonovo to say his direct  debit had 
been accidentally  cancelled.
Following this Motonovo continued to try to take the direct debit payment but this was 
unsuccessful. In November 2018, Mr B confirmed that his bank didnt have authority to make 
the payments  and a new direct debit mandate was sent out. However, there were  still issues 
with the December and January 2019  payments.
Mr B visited  his bank in January 2019  and contacted  Motonovo from there. Motonovo said it 
wouldnt speak to the bank at that time but would accept a letter from the bank saying the 
direct debit was set up. Mr B set up a standing order February  2019.
Motonovo issued  a final response letter in January 2019. This said that between  10 
September 2018 and January 2019 it had attempted to take payments from Mr Bs bank, but 
these had been declined. It said that it wasnt provided with a reason why the payments 
were declined and said Mr B should contact his bank about  this. It said that it was entitled to 
apply late payments charges and had done  this when the payments were declined. It 
explained that it had agreed  to remove the charges  but that this wouldnt happen going 
forward.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She noted that four of the five missed payment fees 
had been refunded and thought the remaining £5 charge should also be removed. She also 
thought that Motonovo  could have done more  to assist Mr B when he first contacted it and 
on subsequent  occasions. Because of this she recommended it pay him £100 
compensation.
Motonovo didnt  accept  our investigators view.  It said that when Mr B contacted it about the 
issue with his direct debit it told him to contact his bank to confirm why the payment had 
been declined.  It said it didnt know why the direct debit had been returned unpaid  and so 
couldnt offer further guidance  beyond referring  Mr B to his bank. It said it had refunded four 
out of five of the charges.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr B set up a direct  debit  when  he entered into the agreement. This was due to be 
taken around the 8th of each month.  The payments were  made  until September  2018.
On 11 September  2018, Mr Bs payment was returned unpaid  and a £5 charge was 
added to his account.  As Mr B hadnt  contacted  Motonovo before the charge was 
applied, I didnt  find Motonovo  did anything  wrong by applying  this charge. Mr B 
subsequently paid the missed  monthly instalment and the £5 charge. 
Ref: DRN89358442Contact was made with Mr B on 13 September 2018 and he said the direct debit had 
been cancelled  in error. 
Mr Bs October payment was returned unpaid. Mr B contacted Motonovo as he had 
thought the direct debit had been  reinstated. I looked through  the information 
provided by Mr Bs bank  it appeared that a new direct debit was set up on 18 
September 2018, but this was amended  on 19 September. I couldnt  say what  
happened, but I had nothing to suggest Motonovo did anything  wrong.  When Mr B 
contacted it, Motonovo explained that payment had been  called for. It sent Mr B a 
statement of his account and confirmed the bank account details it held.  Given  the 
confusion regarding  payment at this time,  I found that Motonovo  acted reasonably by 
agreeing to remove the charge  applied  for the missed payment.
Mr Bs November  2018 was called for by Motonovo and returned. It was suggested 
that Mr B cancel his direct debit mandate and reinstate  it. There  were then a few 
issues, but it was agreed the charges on the account would be removed  and the 
November payment was made.  I found  that Motonovo  was trying to assist Mr B at 
this time.
Mr B sent in a completed direct debit  mandate on 1 December 2018. Mr Bs bank 
doesnt show a new direct debit being set up at this time, so it wasnt clear what  
happened at this point. As a new direct debit  hadnt been set up, Mr Bs December 
payment was returned unpaid.  It was again agreed that the fee would be removed.  
Mr B was advised  to discuss  the issue with his bank.
I understood that Mr B believed the issues were to do with Motonovo, but I found it 
reasonable that Motonovo suggested Mr B talk to his bank. 
Mr B visited his bank and tried to have a joint call with Motonovo.  Motonovo  didnt 
agree to the joint call and instead said it would accept a letter  from Mr Bs bank. 
While I noted Motonovos  position I thought it could  have done  more at this time to 
assist Mr B.
The same  issue happened  with the January 2019 payment. Although Motonovo had 
said in its letter dated 11 January,  no further  fees would  be removed the charge for 
the missed January  payment  was removed on 4 February. I found this reasonable 
given that it was clear  Mr B was trying to make his payments. 
Mr B then set up a standing order which I understand has resolved the issue.
I understood that this issue had caused  Mr B upset and stress. But overall, I found that 
Motonovo did do enough to assist Mr B when  there  were issues  with his direct debit 
payments. I thought  it fair that it refunded the charges for missed payments  (aside  from the 
initial missed  payment)  while the issue was ongoing,  and I didnt  require it to do anything  
further.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional  decision and reiterated the time and stress involved in 
dealing with this issue.
Ref: DRN89358443My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties responded to my 
provisional decision I have now been able to make my final decision.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I understand that this issue has caused Mr B distress 
and inconvenience.  He has clearly intended to make his payments but has experienced 
ongoing issues with his direct debit since it was initially  accidentally cancelled.
My role is to establish whether Motonovo has made a mistake and in this case it isnt clear 
this has happened. I do find that Motonovo could have done  more to assist  Mr B when  he 
called from his bank  but other than that I didnt find it unreasonable that it referred him to his 
bank when the direct debits were returned.  
Motonovo refunded Mr B the charges applied to his account (apart  from the one applied  in 
September 2018) and so I do not find that Mr B has suffered any financial loss due to the 
issue.
I accept that he has been  caused inconvenience  but as I do not find I can say that Motonovo  
was at fault, and I find it took reasonable actions to assist Mr B, I do not require it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about FirstRand  Bank Limited  (trading 
as Motonovo Finance).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8935844