K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that a car she has been financing through an agreement with FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), was of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Miss J took receipt of a used car in October 2018.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was about  12 years  old 
and had already  completed 98,000 miles.
Within the first couple of weeks Miss J had problems  with the car. The dealership  replaced 
the spark  plugs and coil pack but Miss J says that the next day she noticed white  smoke  
coming from the exhaust. She complained to MotoNovo  on 12 November 2018  she was 
concerned this fault might suggest  the cylinder head was cracked. She said shed like to 
return the car but MotoNovo wouldnt  allow that and said theyd need to investigate. But 
subsequently they wrote to Miss J to explain they now thought the car had been  repaired 
successfully and were  closing the complaint. But that wasnt  the case so Miss J referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  a video that Miss J had sent her and was persuaded that the car 
was still emitting white smoke. She noted Miss J had barely used  the car and had only 
completed 1,343 miles since she took receipt of it, seven months earlier. She thought this 
supported the view the car was still not working properly. So she suggested MotoNovo 
should allow  Miss J to invoke her short  term right to reject the car and end the finance 
agreement. And, as shed had little use of the car, she thought MotoNovo should refund all 
instalments shed made towards her finance agreement since  November 2018. She also 
thought it was clear  Miss J had been  inconvenienced by their actions and they should pay 
her £250  compensation.
But MotoNovo disagreed.  They wanted to have a diagnostic performed on the car to 
establish whether  there was a fault and, as our adjudicator didnt think this was necessary, 
they asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss J so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss J acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
Ref: DRN85881792complaints about  it.  The  relevant law says, amongst other  things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo are responsible. The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss J. The car 
here was around  12 years  old and had travelled 98,000 miles so I wouldnt  expect  it to be 
fault free but I would expect it to not be experiencing significant  problems.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
The relevant  legislation  says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
As Miss J reported the issue within the first 30 days she was within her short term right to 
reject the car. But she authorised repairs on it.
Im persuaded those  repairs have not been successful because:
the video Miss J has provided seems to demonstrate the problem she reported to 
MotoNovo in November  2018.  The cars  registration  plate can be seen  and its the 
same registration that was noted in the invoice for repairs  in November 2018. So Im 
persuaded that it is Miss Js car.
Miss J has only covered 1,343 miles in the car since she took receipt of it. The hire 
purchase agreement  was written with an expected mileage  of 10,000  miles per 
year. So I think this supports Miss Js assertion that she hasnt been comfortable  
using the car due to the persistent fault
Miss J complained to MotoNovo on 12 November 2018 and told them there was a 
fault. Ive not seen  evidence of the successful repair  they said had been carried  out 
when they wrote  to Miss J in January. I think its likely if a repair  had been carried out 
there would  have been such evidence  
I think theres sufficient evidence here and I dont think its necessary  to complete a 
diagnostic and delay  a resolution to the matter any further.
Im therefore  persuaded that its most likely the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point  
of supply and as repairs have been unsuccessful Miss J should  now be allowed to reject it. 
I agree  that Miss J has had very little use of the car and Im therefore asking MotoNovo to 
refund instalments from November 2018.
Miss J has evidently been inconvenienced  by matters and its fair and reasonable shes  
compensated for this. I think, in the circumstances,  the adjudicators suggestion  MotoNovo 
pay Miss J £250 is a fair one.
Ref: DRN85881793my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing more to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss J
pay Miss J £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
their actions
refund  all monthly finance instalments  Miss J has paid  from, and including,  
November 2018
remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8588179