K820x#14Complaint
Miss A complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  wont  pay her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
Background
On 7 August  2018 Miss A took out pet insurance  for her dog with Red Sands. She says she 
only changed insurer because her dogs old policy has someone else named as the insured 
and that policy insurer wouldnt  transfer  the policy into her name.  Red Sands added a 
specific exclusion to the policy  that related to previous  treatment Miss As dog had before 
she took out the policy.
On 23 August 2018 Miss A took her dog to the vet. The vet notes  from the visit include 
comments that her dog had weight  loss over recent weeks and when exercising he wasnt  
able to run for as long as he could previously. Unfortunately, after tests the following day he 
was diagnosed with the final stages of a type of cancer. Miss A claimed  for his treatment.
Ultimately Red Sands  declined the claim as it said evidence from Miss As vet showed the 
first clinical  signs  and symptoms of the cancer were noted within  the first 14 days  of the start 
the policy. That meant the medical condition was excluded from cover under  the policy. 
Red Sands  also added exclusions related to the medical condition  to the policy.
Miss A complained to us. In summary she said: her dog had been fit with no symptoms  of 
being unwell;  shed only taken him to the vet on 23 August as the person who looked after 
him while she was on holiday said his shape  had changed; his diagnosis  was a complete 
shock. She thought Red Sands was suggesting she fraudulently withheld information about  
his symptoms which she said was an insult and she had no way of knowing about  the 
cancer before the test results.  Miss A wants Red Sands to pay her claim. 
Sadly, while the complaint was with us Miss As dog passed away.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim.
Miss A disagreed and wants an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss A but I dont uphold her complaint.  I have to decide whether 
Red Sands  fairly and reasonably declined  the claim, and I think  it did. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes  cover  for any illness that first shows clinical signs  within 14 days  of the 
policy start date. The policy is clear about that and its a standard term in many pet 
insurance policies.
I dont think Miss A knew her dog had cancer  within the first 14 days  of the policy  start date,  
and Red Sands hasnt suggested that she did.
Ref: DRN83108042However, from Miss As vets evidence I think Red Sands can reasonably understand that 
she was aware there was something wrong  with her dog with the first 14 days of the policy. 
The vet did make two errors in its records: about  the start date of the symptoms,  and that her 
dog had an episode  of weakness  a few weeks ago and seen by another vet. But Miss As 
vet corrected both those errors and Ive made my decision based on the information the vet 
corrected.
Miss As vet notes for her dogs visit on 23 August 2018 include the following:
Weight loss over recent weeks. Possibly drinking more than usual when questioned. 
Normal appetite. Going  out to exercise  but unable to run for as long as previously. No 
vomiting
findings: thin, prominent spine and ribs
abdo palpn; heavy hard feel in region of spleen,  remainder  ok...
bright demeanour takes treats happily and jumps around with energy with owner...
diagnosis: splenic enlargement- neoplasia,
Weight loss and some of the other  issues noted  are symptoms of the type of cancer.
The key issue is the date it was first noted  that something was wrong with Miss As dog. Her 
vet told Red Sands on several  occasions that the symptoms were first noted on 9 August 
2018, which is within 14 days  of the start of the policy.
On 25 September  2018 Miss As vet called Red Sands  to say they had made an error on the 
claim form and the onset date of the condition should be 9 August, not 9 September, 2018. 
The vet also wrote to Red Sands that:
I am writing to advise  of an error  to (Miss  As dogs)  most recent claim form. The 
date which  the client first reported  clinical  signs should have been 09/08/18 (14 days  
prior to presentation on 23/09/18 as indicated on the clinical  notes) rather than 
09/09/18 as was written .
Miss As vet also wrote to Red Sands to explain her dogs cancer wasnt  related to the 
issues he saw the previous  vet for in May,  saying:
the biological behaviour of (the cancer) and it's aggressiveness precludes the 
episode on the 11th of May to be linked to the current claim starting on the 9th of 
August 2018.
Miss A says she only told the vet her dog had lost weight over the past couple of weeks  as 
on the 23 August  he weighed  less than he had on 13 August  when  she got his worming 
tablets. She says the vet told her he couldnt  change the document even though it didnt 
detail what she said.
But the October 2018 vet notes include comments that: 
O(wner) querying insurance dates and when he was first unwell, advised .. notes 
clearly say he was losing weight for a few weeks prior to presentation, O(wner)  says 
she was away so couldnt report this, advised that sadly weight loss even if not 
reported at the time would have occurred  over preceding weeks and therefore would 
have started within  or even before  the cooling off period,  advised  it is up to the 
Ref: DRN83108043insurance company  to make their call but we have to be honest  and not fraudulent in 
any way, it is the whole and honest  truth.
Miss As vet evidence is clear that the start of the symptoms for her dog's cancer were within  
the first 14 days of the policy  start date.  
Miss A says she was on holiday for some of the time between taking out the policy and 
taking her dog to the vet and when she was at home  in that period she was busy  so she 
didnt know anything was wrong with her dog.
But Red Sands can reasonably rely on her vets evidence to say Miss A was aware 
something was wrong with her dog during the first 14 days  of the policy, even though she 
didnt know what was wrong. 
Also, the vet notes on 23 August say her dogs  weight loss was such  that he had a 
prominent spine  and ribs. So I think its more  likely  than not that Miss A would have known 
there was a problem  within the first 14 days of the policy.
Red Sands  fairly and reasonably declined  the claim. 
Miss A has mentioned the cost involved  for her dogs cremation. The policy excludes costs 
for cremation and disposal, including post mortem  costs, coffins or caskets  so Red Sands 
doesnt need to pay those  costs.
Miss A has also raised that she wants her policy premiums refunded.  Theres  no basis  for 
Red Sands  to do so. It continued to cover other matters that werent excluded. It fairly 
refunded the premium  Miss A paid after her dog passed away.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8310804