K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy because they believe that their whole of life policies taken out in 
1992 and 1997 were  mis-sold to them. They believe these policies werent suitable for them 
based on their circumstances at the time.
The policies were  originally sold by Abbey Life. Phoenix Life Limited is now responsible for 
the sale of the policies.  Mr and Mrs S are being represented by a CMC.
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She set out the background in her letter 
to the CMC.  In summary, she said the CMC told us it thought these  whole of life policies 
were unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S because when they were taken out in 1992 and 1997: 
-Mr and Mrs S had no dependants. 
-They werent financially dependent on each other  they were both earning  
significant salaries and owned a number of properties. 
-Mr and Mrs S had pensions in place 
-The paperwork states that Family Protection  shortfall was NIL.
Due to the passage of time there  were  limited records  available about the sale of these 
policies. Some of the documents we had been  provided were not legible. 
Mr and Mrs S started a joint whole of life policy in 1982 with a sum assured of £100,000. 
Under the terms of this policy  they had a guaranteed insurability option which meant  that 
they could take out extended cover  without having  to go through the underwriting  process 
again. The policy  was a reviewable  whole  of life policy. It was reviewed on the 10th 
anniversary and then at regular five-year intervals  after that.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy was reviewed in 1992.  The sum assured  on the original policy  was 
reduced by £8,062. Additional life cover of £19,434  would  replace the loss in buying power 
allowing for inflation. Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out replacement with a sum assure of 
£27,496. 
The policies were  reviewed again five years  later in 1997. The evidence  we have been 
provided was not legible  but appeared to be similar to the documentation from 1992.
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs S were given the choice of either proceeding with the 
reduced value  of the original cover or using the guaranteed  insurability  option.  She 
concluded that Mr and Mrs S chose  to take out the new policies to maintain the real value of 
the original cover. 
She didnt  think that the policies taken out in 1992  and 1997 were mis-sold by Phoenix Life. 
The CMC did not agree. They asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the views 
expressed by our investigator.
Ref: DRN86391182The two policies taken  out in 1992 and 1997 that are the subject of this complaint were taken 
out following  reviews  of the original policy started  in 1982. There  is no complaint about the 
original policy.
I accept that Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances had changed in 1992 and 1997 from their 
circumstances in 1982. The CMC says they had no need for the life cover. There is very little 
evidence available  to show  what was discussed. However, I am satisfied the information  was 
clear about  the policy they were buying and if they did not want  it, I am not sure why they 
would have proceeded with it.
The policies provided life cover with an element of investment. It appears they were sold on 
a standard cover basis. Although Mr and Mrs S did not have dependants and had other 
assets the life cover  would have been paid in the event either of them had died. They  paid 
the premiums until they surrendered the policies. It appears they could  afford those 
premiums and they chose  to do so. Again, if they did not want the cover, I cannot see why 
they continued to pay the premiums.
I am not satisfied it was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S to have the policies with life cover 
attached. I think they had enough information to understand what  they were  buying. I do not 
think the policies  were mis-sold.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8639118