K820x#14Complaint
Miss Cs unhappy that National  Westminster Bank Plc closed her current  account  and 
withheld her funds. Shes also unhappy  that NatWest told her she could collect  her funds  
when this wasnt possible  and believes shes been discriminated against. 
Background
Miss C opened two bank  accounts with NatWest on the 26 February  2018.  On the 
5 March 2018 NatWest wrote to Miss C and gave  her 14 days notice that her account would 
be closing. NatWest also said in the letter that Miss C could collect  her funds from a local 
branch  but on attempting to do so Miss C was advised her funds wouldnt be released. 
And instead these  funds  werent available until the 29 March 2018.  
Miss C appealed the account closure  decision, and on the 3 May 2018 NatWest reopened 
her accounts. 
Miss C believes  that NatWest closed her account  because of £17,500 transferred in by her 
father-in-law, but she explains  the bank had been notified about  this beforehand so she 
doesnt understand the actions theyve taken. 
NatWest investigated  Miss Cs complaint and accepted theyd  made an error in advising 
Miss C she could initially collect  her funds from a local branch. But NatWest didnt uphold  
Miss Cs complaint about the closure  and reopening of her account  the bank  said theyd 
received new information  from Miss Cs father  in law which  led them to reopen her account.  
And said theyd followed  the terms and conditions  of Miss Cs account  when initially  sending 
the notice to close. NatWest further  explained  that their reason  to close wasnt based on the 
money Miss C received from her father in law or racial discrimination. Overall they offered 
£100 in recognition of the distress caused to Miss C.    
Miss C didnt accept NatWests decision so referred her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Cs complaint  and didnt think that NatWest  needed 
to do anything further. They thought that NatWest had followed the terms and conditions of 
Miss Cs account when issuing the closure  and reviewing her funds. Our investigator  also 
thought that the £100 compensation  for the communication  failure  was fair.
Miss Cs representative Mr K didnt accept  our investigators opinion and said in summary:
-NatWest were aware that £17,500 was being  transferred into Miss Cs account upon 
opening
-NatWest reopened  Miss Cs account  which demonstrates the initial closure decision 
was incorrect
-Miss C has since opened a current account with another bank  and hasnt had any of 
these issues
-And how can it be fair that a bank freezes all the funds a mother  has to support her 
and her child?
As Mr K  on behalf  of Miss C  didnt accept our investigators findings, its been  passed to 
me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN89794202My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But, before a bank  closes  an account it must  do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  
The terms and conditions  of Miss Cs account  state that there  are certain  circumstances in 
which they can immediately close a customers account. The terms and conditions state:
12.2 When we can close your account
We can close your foundation or basic account  immediately if:
-We reasonably suspect youve given us false information, which was a significant 
factor in our decision to open your account  (or to continue to provide it to you);
-We reasonably suspect that your account, is being used or is planned to be used for 
an illegal purpose
-You behave in a violent  or threatening manner to our staff;
-Were required to do so by law or regulation;
-Youre declared  bankrupt;
-Youre entered  into a voluntary arrangement with your creditors;
-Youve used your account for business purposes.
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that NatWest acted within  the terms and conditions 
when they closed Miss Cs account  by giving 14 days notice. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Miss C and I appreciate the closure of her account  
caused her inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about  who it offers 
banking services to. They  cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can 
decide they no longer want to do business  with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract  with. And Im satisfied that in 
Miss Cs case  NatWest  exercised its commercial  freedom legitimately when it decided to 
close her account. 
Ive considered Mr Ks argument that NatWests  decision to close Miss Cs account 
was incorrect, because  the bank later overturned this decision. I understand Mr Ks point that 
it seems strange for it to be fair for a bank to close an account  then reopen it a short time 
later. But, as Ive explained above NatWest have the commercial freedom to decide  who 
theyd like to contract  with. And NatWest have provided me with evidence  they received on 
the 27 April 2018,  which Im satisfied explains their change in position. 
Availability of funds
Ive asked NatWest what  changed between the 5 March 2018 and 29 March  2018 which led 
to the bank releasing Miss Cs funds. NatWest havent been able to provide any records for 
what happened during this period but said its likely  they were performing due diligence  on 
Ref: DRN89794203the funds. Ive thought about the length of time NatWest took to review Miss Cs funds  in 
total 22 days  and although I appreciate the impact on Miss C of not having her funds, on 
balance, I dont think the period of time NatWest took to complete their review was 
unreasonable. 
NatWest have accepted that they provided  incorrect information to Miss C regarding the 
obtaining of her funds.  And they offered Miss C £100 in compensation. Ive considered  
whether this is fair compensation  for the inconvenience caused to Miss C, and Im satisfied it 
is. 
In conclusion, I dont  think NatWest need to do anything more here.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8979420