K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA)  handled their 
claim on their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance  policy with RSA for a property they rent out. In July 
2018 their tenant  noticed a leak behind the washing machine. A plumber was called to fix the 
leak and Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their insurance. 
RSA sent out a contractor to inspect the problem and it was identified  that the problem had 
been caused by a leak from the boiler. There was damage to the kitchen and floor in the 
lounge. 
In August  2018  RSA asked Mr and Mrs P to obtain two quotes  for the repairs.  They  
contacted a number of companies but were only able to obtain  one quote  which  they 
provided to RSA in September. After  some back and forth,  in December 2018, RSA said it 
would only pay for repairs  up to an amount which was less than that quoted by the 
contractors. It said Mr and Mrs P would need to get another quote  if they wished to dispute 
this. Instead Mr and Mrs P asked RSA to send its own contractors to complete the work and 
RSA agreed.
During this time RSA said the work to refit the kitchen would take around a week  and agreed 
to pay £337.50  to cover the rent for that week as their tenants would need to move out for 
that time.  
Mr and Mrs P made a complaint as they said the claim had taken too long to progress.  RSA 
responded in January 2019  and offered £100 compensation for the delays.
In March 2019 work hadnt started on the repairs and Mr and Mrs Ps tenant moved out, 
saying they could no longer put up with the conditions in the house.
Work began in April 2019 and was completed  by May that year.  After  this Mr and Mrs P 
made another complaint.  They said RSA had delayed the repairs  and this had caused  their 
tenant to move out. They said because of this, RSA should  pay additional loss of rent for the 
time the house  was without a tenant and reimburse  the associated  costs. 
RSA responded  and agreed to pay loss of rent for the time while  the repairs were taking 
place as it agreed the flat wouldnt have been habitable during that time.  However,  it said the 
policy only provides  cover for times  when  the house  is unhabitable so it wouldnt pay for the 
full three  months.  It also offered an additional  £400 compensation to make  up for the 
avoidable delays  it had caused.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  think this was fair as they said they had been without rent for three  
months due to RSA.  They asked this service to look into both complaints.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  He 
said that he agreed Mr and Mrs Ps tenant  had moved out due to the repairs taking a long 
time to complete. And he thought RSA caused a number of avoidable delays.  He said RSA 
should pay Mr and Mrs P loss of rent for three  months in total as well as costs associated  
Ref: DRN80968642with the tenant  moving out such as council tax and electricity. And he thought RSA should  
pay an additional £100 to make up for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the delays.
Mr and Mrs P accepted our investigators  view. RSA agreed to pay the £89 fee for 
advertising the flat online  and the additional £100 compensation. However it didnt agree that 
it should pay the extra loss of rent, as it said the policy  didnt cover  for the whole three  
months. Further it didnt  agree  to pay for the council tax or bills as it said Mr and Mrs P 
hadnt provided enough evidence to show which period the bills related to. Finally it didnt 
agree to pay the fee for an online letting agent  as it said this would  always  have been 
needed to be paid.
As RSA dont agree with our investigator, the complaint  has come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has accepted it caused a number of avoidable delays throughout this claim.  I need to 
decide whether  it has done enough to make  up for these delays and to put Mr and Mrs P 
back in the position they would have been  in if the avoidable delays  hadnt  happened.
I have first considered the progress of the claim from when it was first notified until repairs 
were complete, to identify  the avoidable delays. 
The claim was raised  in July 2018.  But repair work  didnt begin until April 2019. Considering 
repairs were fairly straight forward, this is significantly  longer than I would expect.  
I can see that in the first few months,  between July and December, there was a lot of back  
and forth between Mr P and RSA. Further although RSA agreed to repair the floor, it asked 
Mr and Mrs P to obtain quotes for the other  work. They asked  if RSAs  contractor could do 
this from the start but were told this wouldnt  be possible. Then after taking some  time 
contacting numerous contractors for quotes, RSA wouldnt agree to pay the full quote given 
by the one they found. And eventually in December agreed that its own contractor would 
complete the work. 
This process  took significantly longer  than it should have. And it isnt clear why RSA declined 
Mr and Mrs Ps request to use its own contractors,  then accepted  this months  later. If it 
hadnt this would have saved Mr and Mrs P a considerable amount of time and 
inconvenience trying  to obtain  quotes.  Further there  were a number of times where Mr P had 
to chase responses to his emails and he was promised contact that he didnt receive. So the 
process of RSA validating  the quote Mr P provided took much longer than it should have. 
Once RSA had appointed  its own contractor it still took over four months to begin work  on 
repairs. I can see from the correspondence  provided by RSA that there were some  problems 
getting in touch with its contractor. However  as its agent, RSA is responsible for their 
actions. And I dont think it was reasonable that it took four months for the contractor to put 
together a scope  of works and begin  repairs. 
When considering  the claim as a whole, it took nine months from first notification until repairs  
begun. After considering the above,  I think around  five months  of this could have been 
avoided through  better handling  by RSA. 
Ref: DRN80968643I have gone on to consider the impact  this has had on Mr and Mrs P, in order to determine 
what RSA should  do to put things  right.
I have first considered the impact it had on Mr and Mrs Ps rental income.  Their  tenant 
moved out in March.  In their letter giving notice  the tenant said that the reason was because 
they had been living with a damaged  kitchen  for nine months.  So it seems that, had the 
claim not taken so long to resolve, the tenants would have continued  living at the property. 
And Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have been without the rent from March.
Further I have identified  avoidable delays caused by RSA that amount to around five 
months. If RSA hadnt caused the delays  it seems likely that the repair works would have 
been completed at least at the start of 2019, if not sooner. And, had this been the case, Mr 
and Mrs P wouldnt have  lost out on the rental income. And it seems likely  from what  Ive 
seen, that they wouldnt  have lost their tenant at all.
I have considered what RSA has said about  the policy cover.  I can see from the policy that 
loss of rent is only provided when the property is uninhabitable. However it isnt just my role 
to consider what the policy  covers.  But also to consider the impact RSAs  action have had on 
Mr and Mrs P and any associated losses. In this case I think  RSAs  poor management of the 
claim led to Mr and Mrs P losing out on rent for a number of months.  So I think  its fair that it 
pays them  the rent they would have received for this period, in order to put them  back  in the 
position they would have  been in it hadnt  delayed the claim.
For this reason, I agree with our investigator  that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs P the rental 
income they would  have  received for the period  between when their tenant moved out in 
March 2019 until the work  was complete in May. And it should pay 8% simple interest on this 
amount to make up for the time they have been  without the money. 
Further, as Mr and Mrs P have had to pay additional  costs due to the fact their tenant moved 
out, and it seems most  likely  that this wouldnt have happened if RSA had provided better 
service, then I agree RSA should cover  the associated costs.  This includes the £89 for 
online advertising and the £100 for a letting agent. 
In relation to the bills and council tax, RSA should  reimburse Mr and Mrs P for council tax, 
gas and electricity paid between March 2018  and when the repairs  were completed. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest  on these amounts as well.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience RSA has caused Mr and Mrs P 
throughout the claim. I can see that they have had to contact RSA regularly and have  had to 
spend a lot of time ensuring the claim is moved forward.  Further Mr P spent time trying to 
obtain quotes for the work, which caused  him a lot of inconvenience as he had to approach a 
number of contractors.  RSA has already agreed  to pay an additional £100 compensation. 
This brings  the total to £600 throughout the claim.  I think this is fair in the circumstances so I 
agree it should  pay the extra £100  if it hasnt already done  so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Ref: DRN80968644 Pay Mr and Mrs P the rental income they would have received  between the date their 
tenants moved out in March 2019,  until the repairs were complete in May 2019,  less any loss 
of rent payments already made  for this period.
 Pay 8% simple  interest  on this amount  from the date it would have been received  until the 
date the settlement payment is made. 
 Reimburse  Mr and Mrs P £89 for the online advertising of the property.
 Reimburse  Mr and Mrs P £100  for the letting  agent  fees.
 Reimburse  Mr and Mrs P for gas, electricity and council tax bills they paid for the time 
between when their tenant left in March 2019  and when the repairs  were  completed in 
May 2019, on receipt of invoices that show the amounts for this period.
 Pay 8% simple  interest  on all these amounts from the date Mr and Mrs P paid them until 
reimbursement is paid.
 Pay an additional £100 compensation to make  up for the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused, if this has not already been paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8096864