K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Experian Limited mis-handled his claim that he had been the victim of 
identity fraud.
background
In 2017 Mr G discovered that a number of credit  searches had been recorded  on his credit 
file by a third party without his knowledge. At the same time he discovered that a fraudulent 
loan application  had been made in his name. So he emailed Experian to ask how to remove 
the credit  searches, and how to avoid being the victim of fraud in the future. He was 
dissatisfied with how Experian dealt with this and his subsequent emails,  and he made 
various complaints  to our Service about  poor customer  service.
One of our investigators  considered this complaint, and decided not to uphold  it. In some 
instances he said Experian had done  nothing wrong, and in others he said that Experians 
service had not been good enough,  but had not been so bad that it merited  awarding  
compensation. Mr G did not accept  that decision,  and so this complaint has been referred 
to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
(Mr G also has another complaint about  Experian  refusing to delete certain information from 
his credit file, despite it only having been  recorded  in the first place  by a fraudster. 
That complaint is being dealt with separately  by another  ombudsman.)
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Mr G told us in his complaint form, I find that his complaint consists of the 
following issues:
Mr G had only raised a query, but Experian had treated it as a complaint, contrary to 
his wishes.
When he asked Experian five times to specify the precise  nature  of the complaint they 
thought he had raised, their replies  were  evasive and didnt answer his questions 
about that and about  other issues.
Experian failed to respond to his complaint email (that is, the one they treated as a 
complaint) within  five working days, being the timescale  required by their procedures.
Some of Experians questions caused him great  stress.
Experian kept sending  him unsolicited emails about the progress of his complaint, 
saying that they needed more time to respond to him.
Experian sent him an email which was written  in such a small font that it was illegible.
In its final response letter, Experian  said that Mr G wished to bring a legal  challenge 
about its reasons for retaining information  about him, which was incorrect. (In this 
complaint I am dealing  only with the accuracy  of Experians  description  of this issue  in 
its letter,  not with the underlying issue of Experians retention of information.)
Experian only gave him seven  days to respond  to its conclusions, which was an 
unreasonably short time.  He had to take time off work  in order  to reply  in time.
Mr G has made a lot of detailed submissions, which I have read, but in my decision I am 
going to focus on the above complaint points.
Ref: DRN80066122Mr Gs first email to Experian,  which I have described above, only asked questions.  
Experian replied  three  days  later to ask Mr G for more  information, which  he provided. In 
the following  month, Experian replied  to tell him that it had deleted  some of the credit 
searches on his file, but that some  other  searches could only be removed if Mr G contacted 
the relevant lenders himself.  Mr G replied  the next day, 12 July, in a fairly lengthy email 
which I will describe later. That email appears to be the email which Experian treated as a 
complaint, and in its final response letter Experian told Mr G that it had referred  this to its 
complaints department six days later.  Experian replied seven days  after that, on 25 July, to 
tell him that it would treat his concerns as a formal complaint. I think that must be a 
reference to his 12 July email,  because it was so long after his original email, and because  
Experians reply to his original email and its subsequent correspondence  did not seem to 
treat the matter  as a complaint, until 25 July.
Experian didnt  reply to Mr Gs email within five working days. That is an error, but I dont 
think it is a sufficiently serious one to require an award of compensation.
I can see why Experian thought Mr G was complaining in his 12 July email. At the bottom  of 
page 1 (when  the email is printed) is a sentence  which begins: Frankly it is outrageous that 
you expect me to do this The next sentence begins: To add insult to injury In the next 
paragraph he wrote: I am becoming increasingly  concerned of your competence  in 
processing my information. The final paragraph at the end of the email reads as follows:
If the matter is not solved to my satisfaction in your next communication, which  
I expect by no later than 19/7/2017, then I will hold you responsible for any 
reputation damage and costs both material and in time that are accrued due you 
holding incorrect information  on me and refusing  to change it on my request.
The tone of all of those  excerpts sounds very much  like a complaint. In fact, I am in no 
doubt that Mr G was complaining, and that Experian  was right to respond by treating his 
email as a complaint.
Mr G asked Experian a lot of questions in that email,  and he made a lot of points in support 
of his complaint.  It was two pages long.  Experian answered him in a six-page letter, dated 
13 September. That was a full and detailed reply. It began  by summarising what  Experian  
thought his complaint was about,  and then gave full answers. There was a lot to get 
through, and the complaint-handling rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
with which  Experian  has to comply, allow Experian eight weeks to answer a complaint. So 
I think Experian was entitled to take that much time to respond substantively  to Mr Gs 
email. I appreciate that he wanted  an answer  to his questions sooner than that  including 
his question about what Experian thought his complaint was about   but I dont think  
Experian had to answer every one of his emails, or answer him sooner than it did.
I have also taken into account the fact that Experians acknowledgement email  on 25 July 
specifically told him the timetable it intended to follow. It said if it didnt  resolve his complaint 
within 28 days, then it would write  to him and let him know.  It said it would provide its 
response within the eight week maximum. So that reinforces my view that Experian didnt 
have to reply earlier  than it did, because it had warned Mr G that it might  take that long to 
receive a reply.
Ref: DRN80066123I also take that email  into account in considering Mr Gs complaint about unsolicited emails  
about the progress of his complaint. It warned  him to expect another  email in 28 days. 
Also, those emails were required by the FCAs rules,  so Experian had to send them. 
Finally, I dont think these emails had any real impact on Mr G or inconvenienced him at all. 
I do not uphold  that aspect of this complaint.
The final response  letter ended  with this sentence:
If you feel that any aspect  of your complaint remains  unresolved then please let 
me know within the next 7 days and I'll be happy to look into this further  for you.
Mr G complains that seven days was not enough  time, and that to meet  this deadline  he 
had to take time off work. I cant see why he didnt just ask Experian  for more time. I have 
no doubt that the answer would have  been yes. I dont uphold  this.
Mr G also complains about  this sentence  in the same letter,  because  he says it is wrong:
You wish to legally challenge the reasoning  behind us holding information 
that belongs to third parties.
I think this must have been derived  from the following sentence in his 12 July complaint email:
Please can you clarify the legal framework  where so much information is stored 
about me and other individuals without their explicit  consent?
I accept that this wasnt intended  to mean  that Mr G was going to bring  a legal challenge,  
nor is that the most obvious interpretation to give that sentence,  if it is read on its own. 
However, I think that Experian misunderstood that sentence in good faith. I also take into 
account the final paragraph  of Mr Gs email,  already quoted above,  which  does sound a bit 
like a threat to litigate, so I think his question could have reasonably been  interpreted in that 
context. So I dont  uphold  this part of this complaint.
Mr G complains about some of the questions Experian asked him in its emails.  He says 
they caused him stress,  but I cant see anything wrong with them.  They were reasonable 
questions to ask in a fraud investigation.  I can see that he was addressed as Mrs in one 
message, but I accept  Experians  explanation  that this was just an accident.  I see that a 
third party reported  his date of birth as being  in the year 9999, but that is not Experians 
responsibility, and I also think it is harmless, because it is so obviously a mistake that 
nobody would rely on it.
Experian sent Mr G one email that had something  wrong with it. It was in an impossibly 
small font which made it completely illegible, and the lines of text did not fit within the width 
of the screen,  so that the email had to be scrolled  horizontally as well as vertically. That 
was clearly poor service,  but on the other  hand  Im sure that if Mr G had just told Experian 
about the problem then they would have sent it again. So I think this problem could have  
been easily solved,  and I wont award compensation for it.
Ref: DRN80066124my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which means that 
my colleagues and I will not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019. 
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8006612