K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  Neville Birch & Company mis-sold her a life assurance policy.
background
In 2004 Miss G took out a mortgage  for £130,000  on a repayment basis  and over a 25-year 
term. She was advised by Neville Birch to take out a life assurance policy.  The policy was 
set up on a decreasing  term basis and had an initial sum assured of £130,000 for a term of 
25 years  to match her mortgage.  The policy also had an additional terminal  illness  benefit.
Miss G complained to Neville  Birch  as she felt it didnt give due consideration to her needs 
and circumstances  when  recommending  the policy. She said that, at the time of taking out 
the policy, she was single  with no dependants and was employed as a Deputy Headteacher. 
She also explained that she had existing cover in place  with her employer which included a 
death in service grant as part of her pension  and so she didnt feel the policy  was suitable.
When Miss G initially raised her complaint, she thought she had been mis-sold a Payment 
Protection Insurance policy  (PPI). Neville  Birch  clarified that she had taken out a Mortgage 
Protection Policy (MPP)  and not PPI. Neville Birch also said it didnt think  the policy had 
been mis-sold as it gave  valuable protection to Miss Gs estate in the event of her death.
Miss G remained unhappy, so she asked our service for help. Neville  Birch initially  said she 
had raised her complaint too late, but later agreed to us looking into things. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint and felt it should be upheld. She said she would have 
expected Neville  Birch to ask Miss G relevant questions  in order  to find out about her 
personal circumstances, so that it could make a suitable recommendation. She noted Neville 
Birch knew Miss G was single with no dependants and so it knew  she had no one to leave 
the property to after she died. Our investigator  also felt Miss G had sufficient cover already in 
place and so she didnt think the policy was suitable.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Neville Birch refund the premiums 
Miss G paid for the policy  and to also pay her 8% simple interest per annum  on each 
premium, from the date it was paid until the date of settlement.
Miss G accepted this, but Neville Birch didnt agree. It felt it was still appropriate to arrange  
the cover  because if Miss G died before her mortgage was paid off, her lender could seek 
repayment of the mortgage from her estate. And this could result in her property being sold 
in order to pay off any outstanding debt.  It also explained that if she had a terminal  illness 
her mortgage payments  would still need to be met and so the policy  could help in this event.
Neville Birch also responded by explaining  that it wasnt made aware  of Miss Gs existing 
cover when recommending the policy. But noted that her death in service grant wasnt 
designed to cover a mortgage and as is different from terminal  illness  cover. It also said the 
policy was suitable  as Miss G could  have changed employment and there would be no 
guarantee that any future employment would also include death in service  cover.
Our investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion  and so the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.
Ref: DRN84108822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Neville Birch has confirmed that the policy was not a condition of the mortgage  and that it 
recommended the policy  to Miss G. As such, it had to take reasonable steps to ensure it was 
suitable for her. In order  to determine  this, Ive looked  at what  information  Neville Birch  knew  about 
Miss Gs personal circumstances and her objectives  at the time it made  the recommendation.
Neville Birch provided the Client Financial Information Form  it completed  for Miss G, which  
appears to have not been fully completed. I can see that details of Miss Gs objectives; assets 
and existing protection were not recorded.  All of which I think  were important aspects of Miss Gs 
circumstances which Neville Birch needed to consider before making  a suitable recommendation. 
The form does, however, record that Miss G was single with no dependants.  So Neville  Birch  
ought to have known that there was no one who was living in the property with Miss G who 
would benefit  from a payment under the life protection part of policy,  had Miss G passed  
away. I acknowledge Neville Birchs point that, in the event of her death,  the policy could 
prevent the need for Miss Gs property to be sold in order to pay off any outstanding 
mortgage. However, Ive not seen anything recorded  to show  that this was a concern to  
Miss G. If Miss G had expressed  a need  for her property to be left to someone,  then I would 
have expected this to have been  recorded  in the documentation from the sale.   
I also appreciate Neville  Birchs comment that the policy  provided  protection  should Miss Gs 
circumstances have  changed in the future. But for the advice to be suitable, it needed to be 
made in light of Miss Gs circumstances  at the time of the sale rather than at a later date. Ive 
not seen a recorded explanation in the documentation from the sale that Miss G wanted to 
think about future changes in her circumstances, so I dont think  this is what Miss G wanted. 
So in my view, given Miss Gs circumstances  I find it hard to see how the life cover  was 
beneficial to her. I understand  that the policy also had an additional terminal illness  benefit. 
Being terminally ill is a relatively  rare occurrence,  and its also usually a free benefit as a 
result of having life cover  in place. The inclusion of it here would give Miss G a relatively 
small benefit but overall, I dont think its inclusion makes the advice suitable.    
putting things right 
Neville Burch should compensate Miss G by refunding all the premiums she has paid on her 
policy and add 8% simple interest  per annum to each premium,  from the date it was paid to 
the date of settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84108823my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Neville  Birch & Company, to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Ben Waites
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8410882