K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the decision on her disability claim by Chubb  European  Group SE. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mrs W holds a policy with Chubb  that provides a lump sum benefit  on permanent  total
disability. Following a back  injury she claimed on this. Chubb didnt accept her claim in full,
but made an offer of some £1,250.  They thought other back  problems contributed to the total
disability. Mrs W complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, and at that stage Chubb  increased its offer to
£6,250. Mrs W wasnt  happy  with that, so the case has been referred to me for review.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am inclined to say the £6,250  is a fair offer. Ill explain why.
The policy Mrs W holds  covers permanent total disability,  but this needs to arise  from an
injury. Further it is the injury that must  cause the permanent disability and the policy states it
(the injury) must be the sole and independent cause of the disability. This is where I think
Mrs Ws claim starts to run into trouble.
Having looked  at the medical reports here it is clear that Mrs Ws pre-existing back condition
has contributed to her disability. The exact level of contribution  is difficult  to calculate,  but
there is certainly some contribution. So, by one definition  Mrs W wouldnt be entitled  to any
benefit under the policy, as it wasnt the injury alone that caused her problem.
However Im glad to see that Chubb  have  made  offers  on the basis that the accidental injury
accelerated / exacerbated Mrs Ws underlying condition. And it might be that I would have
asked them to make  some payment under the policy anyway. But I dont think it would have
been more than the £6,250 on offer.
One of medical  reports suggests the accident  caused 25% of Mrs Ws ongoing issue.  So it
could be argued  she should receive 25% of the policy  benefit.  However  the policy only
applies this if you are totally disabled  from any job for which you are reasonably  suited, and
presumably there are jobs available to Mrs W which dont involve such physical work.  And I
must continue to bear in mind that by the strict policy definition no benefit  is due.
On this basis I think the current offer of £6,250 is sufficient in the circumstances  of Mrs Ws
disability and previous medical  history.
My current  view is that I endorse the offer of £6,250 but make  no higher award.
Since my provisional decision Chubb have accepted the award against them. Mrs W doesnt 
agree with it. She considers   
She considers  the policy covers accidental injury  or permanent  disability, and as she 
had no pre-existing conditions before she took the policy  out she is entitled to a 
higher payment. 
Ref: DRN86172002That the delay  in her having a MRI scan was Chubbs fault. 
She doesnt know of any nursing jobs that could be done with her level of back  pain, 
for which she is still having extensive treatment.  
She had no symptoms before her injury,  is entitled to a higher benefit,  and we should 
check with her consultant for more information.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing my provisional view.  Ill explain  why. 
Whilst her policy  covers  disability as I said in my provisional decision that disability must 
stem from an accident only, it doesnt  cover anything that isnt accident. In Mrs Ws case 
there are clear  indications  that part of her problem  is degenerative changes in her back. 
Unfortunately it doesnt matter under  her policy conditions  that these problems werent there  
when she took the policy out, they still arent covered. And under a strict interpretation  of the 
policy I dont think Mrs W is entitled  to any benefit.  
But, again  as stated in my provisional  decision Chubb appear to feel some proportionate 
payment is due and I looked at this. 
With regard to the MRI scan  Im not sure this is relevant to the claim. If she needed this for 
medical reasons  that would be a matter  for her GP or consultant.  If it was purely for settling 
the claim and she thought  it would help her it would be for her to provide it to Chubb. I cant  
expect an insurer to seek out a medical  test to support  a claimant,  it is for a claimant to make 
their own case  to an insurer. 
I note Mrs Ws views on other jobs, but after the injury she did continue  to work in some 
roles. I appreciate this may not have worked out, but again  this might suggest some  of her 
issues are degenerative rather than directly  linked to the accident. 
And with regard to her consultant I have  read again his letters, and in particular his note of 
September 2018. But he confirms that there are degenerative changes, albeit these  werent 
causing symptoms  prior to the accident. I dont need  this confirmed again. 
The real issue is that Mrs Ws problems arise  from two causes, the accident and the 
underlying changes in her back,  As stated before her policy  doesnt  really allow for a claim 
with two causes,  if its not just an accident  then no payment is due. But, looking at what 
Chubb have done I see no reason to stop them paying the £6,250 on offer, but in view of the 
policy wording Im not prepared to ask them to increase this. 
Mrs W has also mentioned an outstanding payment of £100 for a data issue  with Chubb. 
She will need to chase Chubb  for that. Data issues are more properly dealt with by the 
information commissioners office rather  than our service.
Ref: DRN86172003my final decision
Chubb European Group SE. should  pay Mrs W £6,250. I make no other  offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617200