K820x#14complaint
C1 Ltd, C2 Ltd and Mr D through a solicitor C complain that Hiscox  Insurance  Company 
Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  dealing  with a claim under a personal 
accident policy. They want the claim paid.
background
C1 Ltd, C2 Ltd and Mr D (referred  to within this decision  collectively  as C Ltd) held a 
personal accident and illness policy with Hiscox,  which covered accidents or illness affecting 
employees and volunteers. If an employee  or volunteer died and was covered by the policy, 
C Ltd would  receive  £50,000 under the policy. C Ltd owned a number of rental properties, 
which it maintained.  Mr P carried out that maintenance, but while  undertaking maintenance 
for C Ltd in September 2017 while working  with C Ltds employees, he fell from a height and 
later died.
There was a dispute about whether Mr P was an employee or not. The policy only covered 
employees and volunteers. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) said C Ltd owed duties 
to Mr P as if it was his employer, and C Ltd said there was an oral agreement  with Mr P that 
he was employed  to do tasks from hour to hour. Hiscox said Mr P was a self-employed  
contractor (which was what C Ltd said when it initially contacted  its broker  about the 
incident) and wasnt covered by the policy. Hiscox  said if C Ltd disagreed,  it should provide  
documents, such as an employment contract. 
C Ltd said that this wasnt  necessary as the definition of an employee  under a related 
employers liability policy covered the self-employed  undertaking labour under supervision  
and employed  under  a contract  of service. Hiscox explained that definition was from a 
different policy  and the word employee  under the personal accident  policy  had its natural 
meaning. It also pointed  out that Mr P ran his own business and sent C Ltd invoices, wasnt  
recorded as an employee, and described  by the director of C Ltd as a contractor to the HSE. 
Hiscox said that the HSE treated C Ltd as an employer for health  and safety purposes, but 
recorded Mr P as self-employed.
C complained to us. The investigators view was that Hiscoxs  view of Mr Ps employment 
status was fair and reasonable. The evidence supported the view that he was self-employed.  
The term employee  wasnt defined within the personal accident policy and the definition  
from the employers  liability policy shouldnt be applied in his view. The investigator noted 
that Mr P sent invoices  to C Ltd for a variety  of services and didnt think  that there was any 
intention of C Ltd employing Mr P. He pointed out that there  were  no wages slips or 
employment contract,  no tax or pension contributions, and even in correspondence  C Ltd 
said Mr P wasnt  an employee. The investigator  said that the HSE gave instructions to C Ltd 
about employees and workers, and recorded Mr P as self-employed, not an employee.
C disagreed. She said that the reference  to volunteers within the policy was relevant as it 
showed that the policy covered a wider group than employees alone.  C also said that the 
definition from the employer liability policy should  be used to define who was an employee 
and that this service  hadnt properly considered how to define an employee in the 
circumstances, particularly in light of the HSE findings.
Ref: DRN87493552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Hiscox has a responsibility  to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
This complaint turns entirely on whether Mr P was an employee for the purposes of the 
personal accident policy, as opposed to any other insurance policy. It isnt for the HSE or this 
service to make a final decision about Mr Ps actual employment status; thats a matter for 
an employment tribunal.  This service must bear in mind the law, but ultimately what  I have to 
decide is simply whether  Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably in finding  that Mr P was an 
employee. Mr P wasnt a volunteer, and so the only possible term that could cover him is 
employee;  the policy  doesnt  cover  workers  or the self-employed, who arent  volunteers.
Employment status is a complex area of law, and one thats being reviewed and affected by 
numerous decisions of employment tribunals and superior courts. The term employee isnt 
defined by the personal accident policy, and its fair and reasonable that Hiscox has refused 
to apply a definition from a different policy addressing a different insured risk. But the term 
employee  isnt ambiguous. An employee  is generally defined as someone working under a 
contract for service or an apprentice; someone  working under  a contract for services is likely 
to be viewed as a worker  or self-employed. Mr P wasnt  working  under a contract  for service 
from C Ltds own account; he provided services.
Hiscox noted that Mr P didnt have  a written statement  of employment particulars (required 
for all employees)  or employment contract; that he sent invoices for his work for C Ltd and 
ran his own business; that Mr P was paid gross  by C Ltd and no tax deductions or pension  
contributions made (required for employees);  that Mr P was described by C Ltd as a 
contractor, sub-contractor  and self-employed; and that there appeared to be no intention  of 
employing Mr P by the parties. All of these factors are factors which  an employment tribunal 
would consider when deciding employment  status.
Hiscox after reaching its conclusion that Mr P wasnt an employee said that C Ltd could 
submit further evidence and set out what further  information would assist. This is fair and 
reasonable. I note that C Ltd has said that HSE treated it as Mr Ps employer, so Hiscox 
should do so. But the HSE didnt  formally  find C Ltd to be Mr Ps employer. What it found 
was an absence of safe working systems  and training which could put employees  and 
workers at risk, which caused it to issue a prohibition notice. Mr P mayve been found  to be a 
worker (or not) by an employment tribunal, but the HSE didnt declare him to be so  it was 
concentrating on its core function.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I cant find that Hiscox acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in finding Mr P not to be an employee of C Ltd. It made its decision based on 
evidence and has given  good reasons for its finding.
Ref: DRN87493553my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C1 Ltd, C2 Ltd and Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before  25 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8749355