K821x#15complaint 
Miss N says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading  as Sunny (Sunny), lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says that she couldnt  afford  to make her loan repayments. 
background
This complaint is about one running  credit account that was started in July 2014 and 
followed by 33 short-term  instalment loans, ending  in January 2018. The value of the loans 
ranged from £50 to £900. Ive detailed the loans on the attached appendix. 
Sunny had already agreed  that loan 1 shouldnt  have  been sold to Miss N and made an 
offer. It had offered to refund all interest and charges in relation to this account. 
Miss N didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator considered the remaining loans 2 to 34  and concluded  that they shouldnt 
have been given to Miss N. This was because  of the multiple drawdowns Miss N had been 
able to make  on the running credit account  for which eventually  Sunny offered short-term 
instalment loans as an alternative means of raising short-term funds. 
Our adjudicator further concluded  that by loan 6, Miss Ns overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested she had become persistently reliant on short-term loans, so any information 
recorded about them was adverse. That information  should be removed from Miss Ns credit 
file. 
In response to the adjudicator, Sunny agreed  to partially uphold Miss Ns complaint from 
loan 12 onwards. It agreed  it would have been  prudent to have  asked Miss N more  
questions when the number of loans  taken per month increased. 
Miss N didnt agree with Sunnys offer to uphold her complaint from loan 12, nor did she 
agree with how it had gone about  its calculations. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss N could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the normal  course of events, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include: 
Ref: DRN85205902the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
   loan repayments  to a given  loan amount from a lower level of income);  
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal  that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ns complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Ns 
complaint in full and Ive explained why below.  
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss N could 
repay her loans in a sustainable manner. 
And there may come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates the lending  was unsustainable.  
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Sunny should  have completed  reasonable and 
proportionate check to satisfy itself that Miss N would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way. Sunny should also have taken into account the short-term  purpose of the 
loans provided  in that it should have checked  whether the overall pattern of lending 
increased Miss Ns indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
The first loan  the running credit  has been upheld by Sunny so is not in dispute.  But it 
remains relevant as it forms part of the history of Miss Ns lending.  
Looking at the overall pattern of lending, Ive looked  to see if there  was a point at which 
Sunny should  reasonably have seen  that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And as a consequence, Sunny should have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided 
any further lending.
Granting overlapping loans  which is what Sunny did  with combined repayments may not 
in itself necessarily be irresponsible. But, apart  from being arguably more  difficult for Miss N 
to manage, the fact that a consumer would ask for further credit having  only very recently 
taken out a loan should have raised the question as to the intended purpose of the loans. 
And depending on how long the lending relationship was at that point, this should  be of 
concern to a responsible lender. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ns case, I think  the point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful  was 
reached by loan 2. 
The first loan  running credit - agreement made clear that this type of credit was expensive  
and wasnt suitable  for longer term borrowing. The term of the agreement at the outset was 
for five months but it wasnt paid off until April 2015   five months later than intended  ten 
months in total.
Ref: DRN85205903And during the time Miss N had the running  credit  account she took several drawdowns and 
the limit of £500  was significantly exceeded,  many  times, and up to nearly  double  the limit at 
£945.
So Sunny should have  been put on notice  that Miss N wasnt able to manage her borrowing 
from the outset with the first credit she was given. The way in which  Miss N used the running 
credit should  have indicated to Sunny that Miss N was unlikely to have  been  able to 
sustainably repay  loan 2 and any future loans. So Miss N lost out as a result.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss N, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ns case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss N was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Miss N had taken out six loans within  16 months.  So, I think  Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Miss N was having to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loans was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ns indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably. Sunny said it disagreed 
with this as this was an average  of one loan for every 2.7 months. But I think this 
misses the point  that the cost of the debt Miss N owed Sunny was expensive and 
continued to be so over a longer period of time. 
Miss Ns first loan after the running credit was for £100 and loan 6 was for £500.  At 
this point Sunny ought to have known  that Miss N was not likely  borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. I disagree with 
Sunnys comment that the fluctuating amounts  Miss N borrowed depended upon her 
needs and didnt show any pattern. Miss N started to borrow concurrently and not 
necessarily for smaller  amounts  which suggests she was getting further into debt. 
For loan 6 Miss N was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling the previous 
three loans and loan 7 was taken only four days after that. 
Miss N wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 34 was 
taken out 42 months after Miss Ns first. The penultimate loan, loan 33 was by far the 
largest taken, at £900, and it was taken out over three years from when the lending 
relationship started. Miss N had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a 
debt to Sunny over an extended period.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
As Sunny has already  conceded in relation to the first credit  the running  credit account  
then I include it here within the putting things right section only for ease of reference.
The outstanding balance  due on Miss Ns loan 33 has been  written off by Sunny. If Sunny 
sold the loan it should buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny cant  buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
Ref: DRN85205904refund  all interest and charges Miss N paid on the running account and loans 32 and 
34;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
for loan 33 rework  the loan applying all payments made by Miss N as if they went 
towards the principal  amount borrowed.  But importantly, Sunny needs to make sure 
that it collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amounts Miss N has paid exceeds the amounts she was lent, any 
further amounts  paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments that 
may have been made should  be refunded to Miss N with 8% simple  interest  from the 
date the overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance, any refund  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Miss N.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ns credit file in relation to loans  1 
to 6. 
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 34 should be removed from 
Miss Ns credit file. Sunny does not have to remove loan 33 from Miss Ns credit  file 
until this have been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about this loan 
should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Miss N a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Miss N still has an outstanding balance due on loan 33 then it 
should try and work together  to come to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan in order  to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Miss N fairly.  
Ref: DRN85205905my final decision
For the reasons  give above, my final decision is that Im upholding Miss Ns complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my final decision  before 24 February 2020.  
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Appendix of loans
Ref: DRN85205906*the running credit facility was due to be repaid on 28/11/2014
Ref: DRN8520590