K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that when  he made a claim on his motorbike  insurance policy  MCE 
Insurance Company Limited  didnt explain properly what was meant by a category  B total 
loss. He says that led to avoidable costs for him as well as upset and inconvenience.   
background
On 7 April 2017  Mr A told MCE his motorbike  had been stolen. Later  that day it was 
recovered by the police  but was damaged. Mr A told MCE it needed to be taken to a garage 
by a recovery agent. A few days later he said his garage had said there wasnt  much 
damage and the bike was repairable. The advisor  said as Mr As policy excess was £950, it 
might be best for him not to claim on the policy. Mr A then realised that hed have to pay the 
recovery charges if he withdrew the claim.  He wasnt  happy about that. 
On 20 April 2017 MCE told Mr A that its engineers report  said the bike was a category B 
total loss. Mr A queried it, so an advisor  told him what the engineer  said the damage to the 
bike was. The advisor didnt say it couldnt  be returned to the road.  He said MCE would offer 
Mr A a cash  settlement and no recovery charge  would  be payable.  But if Mr A withdrew the 
claim, hed have to pay £171.60 for the recovery, plus a £60 admin charge. When the £60 
charge was waived,  Mr A withdrew the claim.  He paid for the recovery  on 22 April 2017. The 
bike was taken to his garage  on 8 May 2017, which Mr A thought was a long delay.
Mr A had the bike repaired. He renewed his insurance with MCE in January 2018,  cancelled 
it after a month and reinsured with MCE in March  2018. Two months later he made  another  
claim on the policy, as his bike was stolen again.  It was recovered by the police and the 
claim was closed in June 2018. In August 2018  MCE  cancelled  Mr As policy. It said it 
couldnt insure a category B total loss vehicle, as it shouldnt be on the road.
Mr A said as MCE hadnt told him in 2017  that the bike shouldnt  be on the road, it should 
pay him the 2017 market value for it now. He said it should refund the recovery charge, plus 
the money hed spent  on repairs  and the premiums  hed paid since  May 2017. He also 
wanted a refund of the storage costs  hed incurred for the bike since  September  2018,  plus 
his transport costs in April / May 2017  and £5,000 compensation.
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint. She noted that in December 2018  
MCE had offered to pay Mr A the salvage  value of his bike,  plus any costs hed incurred in 
having it put back on the road. The investigator thought it should pay him the bikes  market 
value, refund his premiums, pay the repair costs, refund the recovery  charge, add interest 
and pay £150  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.  
MCE said the investigators proposals  amounted  to betterment. Mr A said she should add to 
her suggested remedies his transport costs  in April / May 2017  plus his transport costs  from 
August 2018 onwards. He still thought MCE should  pay for storage from September  2018. 
And he thought  the compensation proposed for distress and inconvenience was too low.
As there was no agreement the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I dont think it was reasonable  for MCE to assume that Mr A would  know what a category B 
total loss was. I think the advisor should  have told him in April 2017 that the bike couldnt be 
repaired and put back on the road. I think Mr A should have been offered the market value 
Ref: DRN85149202for the bike at the time of loss. MCEs engineer thought it was worth £2,000. Thats in line 
with the figures  we found when we looked at the national  trade  guides. So I think MCE 
should pay Mr A the bikes market  value, minus the policy excess,  plus interest.
Had Mr As claim  been paid, he wouldnt have had to pay the recovery charge of £171.60 in 
April 2017. So I think MCE should  refund  that sum to him, plus interest.  And as Mr A didnt 
know the bike couldnt go back on the road, he spent £580  repairing it, plus £30 on an MOT 
check. He wouldnt  have incurred these costs  had he been advised properly by MCE, so I 
think it should refund Mr A for them, plus interest.
Mr A thinks  there was a delay of a month on MCEs part in delivering the bike back  to him in 
May 2017. I think its reasonable for an insurer to have time to validate a claim, especially if it 
has to obtain an engineers view before deciding how to proceed.  Mr A only paid the 
recovery charges on 22 April 2017 and got the bike back  on 8 May 2017.  It isnt clear why 
that took over two weeks. But I think it was a relatively short delay that can be covered by 
the general award for distress and inconvenience  that I think  MCE should pay Mr A.  
Mr A went  to the trouble of repairing and maintaining the bike when it shouldnt have been 
on the road. I think he was inconvenienced by that, as it was pointless. MCE reinsured the 
bike twice (despite its category B status)  thereby further misleading Mr A. So he was very 
shocked and confused  to find the bike wasnt insurable. But that wasnt until well after a year 
after he should have  been told about  it. He was then left without a bike and without a 
payment for it for several months. 
Mr A wants  MCE to pay £10 per day towards  the travel costs he ran up from August 2018  
onwards. But he hasnt provided  evidence  of the money  he spent whilst travelling by bike or 
the sums  he spent on public transport. So I cant say what his extra  costs  were. As Mr As 
bike was economical  to run, I think its very likely  he would have spent more on travel once it 
was off the road. He couldnt replace it as hed had no funds  from MCE to assist with that. 
I think MCE should have  tried to put matters right shortly after realising in the summer of 
2018 that it had made a substantial error in 2017. In mid-December 2018 it offered  Mr A a 
sum for the salvage and a refund of the bikes repair costs. That would have amounted  to 
around £1,000.  I think Mr A could have accepted it on the basis  that he would  still complain 
to us about MCEs poor service, but put the sum towards a new bike.  
In my view, MCE should have made  an offer to Mr A three  months earlier than it did. 
Between the first week of September  2018  and mid-December 2018, Mr A had no option but 
to use public transport.  He would have incurred  travel expenses even if hed been  able to 
travel by bike during  that time. But I think  he was inconvenienced and left out of pocket by 
MCEs delay in trying to put matters right. I think the substantial inconvenience  and distress  
Mr A faced in 2017 and in 2018 merits an overall compensation payment of £500.
Mr A wants  a refund of all the premiums hes paid from April 2017 to August 2018, when the 
policy was cancelled. I dont think they should  be refunded. Mr A used the bike during that 
time. Theres no reason  to assume  that had there been an incident,  MCE wouldnt have 
covered it. I think it would have accepted that it led him to believe it was insured by charging 
him for cover. Had MCE not covered  a claim,  Mr A could  have  complained about that. I also 
think its more likely  than not that had Mr A been  given the right advice in April 2017, he 
would have insured another bike. So I dont think he can show  he lost out financially.  
Ref: DRN85149203Mr A has stored the bike from September  2018 onwards at £10 per day. I dont think its 
clear why he chose to do that. He knew it couldnt be returned  to the road.  So the only option  
was to sell it for scrap  / parts. I think its surprising that the garage agreed to store  the bike. 
Mr A must have  explained  at the time why he could  no longer use it. Id have expected the 
garage to advise him to dispose  of it rather than run up storage costs. I dont think  it would 
be reasonable to expect  MCE  to pay for them.  
  
In summary,  I think MCE should  pay Mr A the bikes 2017 market  value,  refund the money 
he spent on it after April 2017, refund the initial recovery  charge and add interest  to the sums  
due for these items. I dont think that would amount to betterment. Mr A was entitled to a 
payment for the bike and shouldnt have  had to pay the other sums. I think MCE should also 
pay him compensation for distress  and inconvenience. I know  Mr A wont  be happy that I 
havent said it should refund his premiums and pay the storage charges. But based on what  
Ive seen so far, I dont  think it would be fair to require MCE to do so.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr A didnt comment.  MCE said it 
had agreed to pay for the costs Mr A had incurred in repairing and putting his bike back on 
the road, subject to evidence. It said it would wait for the final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonable for MCE  to expect Mr A to be able to provide evidence of the work  he 
had done to the bike. As neither party made  any further comment  for me to address, theres 
no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint and to require MCE Insurance 
Company Limited  to do the following:
Pay Mr A the market value for his bike at the time of loss, minus  the policy  excess. 
Add interest to the sum due at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement
Subject to evidence,  refund Mr A for the cost of repairing  his bike (£580), for the MOT 
assessment (£30) and for the initial recovery charge (£171.60).  Add interest at the 
simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr A £500 for distress and inconvenience
If MCE thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514920