K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about how Amtrust Europe  Limited dealt with his claim under his heating  
breakdown insurance  policy.  My references  to Amtrust include its agents.
background
In March Mr W claimed on his heating breakdown policy for problems with his central 
heating and hot water. 
Amtrusts contracted engineers made  numerous visits during which they repaired/replaced  
several boiler parts. The boiler  worked for only short periods of time after those repairs. In 
May, at Mr Ws suggestion, Amtrust arranged for the manufacturer  to inspect the boiler. The 
manufacturers engineer  replaced more parts but said there was an issue  with the flue which 
it didnt cover. 
In mid May Amtrust inspected the flue and found  an installation  defect in the flue which it 
repaired. The work resolved the ongoing  problem and Amtrusts  engineers  made two further 
visits to finalise matters.
Amtrust accepted it had taken too long to fix the problem. It offered Mr W a refund of the
£90 call out fee and £50 to compensate for his distress and inconvenience. It said it had 
replaced a heat exchanger which was blocked,  so not covered by the policy, for free rather 
than charging Mr W £233.85. As the flue had an installation defect that work wasnt  covered 
by the policy,  but it had also repaired the flue for free rather that charge £536.61.
Mr W complains £140  compensation  isnt enough.  He says he'd told the first few engineers  
the user guide  for the boiler indicated an issue with the flue but the engineers  took no notice 
and replaced parts  which hadnt fixed the problem. Hed had about 12 visits over 67 days  
with about 30 days of no heat and/or hot water.  Three visits were  changed  at short  notice. 
His wife suffers from asthma  and having no heating  and washing with hot water in a bucket 
wasnt good for her condition so he took her away for a break  as she was getting upset. He 
also says before the engineer came  he told Amtrust  the boiler  had a vertical flue that exited 
through the roof and appropriate  equipment would be required.  The engineer arrived without 
the necessary  ladder which Mr W then had to find. 
Our investigator explained why she thought Amtrusts £140 compensation offer was fair 
taking into account  the repairs Amtrust had carried out for free.
Mr W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the flue kit, which Amtrust 
costed at £176.61 was the wrong type and not used so shouldnt  be included  in the £536.61. 
He also said hed spent  an hour and a half arranging the ladder for the flue to be inspected 
and wanted £60 an hour for his time.
Before I made my decision we asked  Amtrust  about the flue kit. It said whether or not the kit 
was used didnt  matter as it had done the work for free.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81075642I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I dont know what Mr W discussed with Amtrust's  engineers about the possible cause of the 
fault but our investigator asked Amtrust why the flue hadn't been checked  sooner. It said its 
engineers wouldn't check the flue on a standard breakdown.
As the parts Amtrust  had repaired/replaced over many visits hadnt permanently fixed the 
problem I think it should have reasonably inspected all parts  and/or asked the manufacturer  
to attend sooner than it did. It arranged the latter  only at Mr Ws suggestion.
Had the problem  been identified sooner than mid May Mr W wouldnt have had all the 
distress and inconvenience of multiple  visits. He would have had permanent heating and hot 
water sooner. The two months was clearly  a difficult time for Mr W and his wife. If Amtrust 
hadnt offered  compensation  I would  have awarded  compensation.
In deciding whether  Amtrust's compensation offer is fair its reasonable for me to take into 
account the work that Amtrust could have charged for but has done for free.
The evidence is the heat exchanger needed replacing. The part was blocked and the policy  
doesnt cover repairs  required due to sludge,  lime scale or corrosion. So Amtrust could have 
charged Mr W £233.85 for that part, but it didnt.
The policy also doesnt cover pre-existing  faults or system deficiencies.  As Amtrust found 
the flue problem  to be an installation defect the work  required wasnt covered by the policy.  
Amtrust could have charged for that repair. Even  if Amtrust  didn't  use the flue kit, costed at 
£176.61, it still could  have charged for the labour  at a cost of £360, and it didnt.
I dont generally award compensation based on a consumers time spent, instead I look at 
compensation for the overall  distress and inconvenience. In this case there's no basis  for me 
to say Amtrust needs to pay Mr W any compensation specifically for him having to obtain a 
specialist ladder to get access to the flue. Even if the work on the flue had been covered the 
policy says the cost of any specialist equipment and/or  labour  required to access and/or  
undertake work to the flues will be chargeable. So even then Mr W would have to provide 
the ladder or have to pay for Amtrust to provide it. 
Amtrust's overall settlement of compensation and free work it could have charged for is 
worth £733.85 (£140  plus £233.85 plus £360). That overall settlement is more  than I would 
have awarded  in compensation so I think Amtrust's  offer is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8107564