K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with Tesco Underwriting Limiteds valuation after his car was involved in an 
accident. Mr T doesnt think the valuation was fair.
background
Mr Ts car was involved in an accident and the engineers  report classified it as a total loss. 
Mr T was offered  £2,165.00 as a settlement.  Mr T was unhappy  with this as he felt the car 
was worth more. He said that his car had non-standard features such as leather seats and 
built in satnav.
Tesco looked at this again taking  into account  the additional features of the car and it 
consulted the industry  valuation  guides.  Tesco increased its valuation  to £3,384.00. Mr T 
asked to keep  the car and so £711.00 was deducted from the valuation.
But Mr T remained unhappy with the valuation and he said hes unable to buy a replacement  
with the money  hes been given.
Our investigator looked at the case and said that the valuation  offered to Mr T by Tesco  was 
fair. Mr T disagreed and so the case has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy covers  him for the market value  of the vehicle, taking into account its condition  
at the time of the accident.  Market value is generally considered in the industry as the cost of 
replacing the car with a car of similar  age, type, mileage and condition immediately prior to 
the accident.
The recognised industry  approach to assessing a fair market value takes into account what 
the motor trade guides say the market value is  and this is the approach  we also take when 
looking at valuations. The guides are based on national research of actual selling prices  so 
give a good reflection of the true market value of a vehicle.
The Tesco engineer took into account the trade guides and originally offered Mr T 
£2,165.00. But it then revised  the offer to £3,384.00 after taking  into account Mr Ts 
comments about the value of the car and the additional extras the car had.
When carrying out the new valuation, Tesco again  took into account the trade  guides, Tesco 
used the highest valuation  of the different guides,  £3,110.00. It then added £524.00 to the 
value for the additional extras. But it deducted  £250.00 from the final offer as the engineers 
report said that there was pre-accidental damage visible  on the car. Tesco  also said it took 
into account that the mileage was higher than average for a car of that year. I dont think  any 
of this seems unreasonable.
But Mr T doesnt think that Tesco has properly taken into account the additional extras. I can 
see that Tesco has added to the value  of the car after taking  into account the additional 
extras. When bought  new Im sure the additional extras  were  expensive but the amount paid 
Ref: DRN88021902for these  doesnt mean a comparable increase in the market value of the car. So I think  this 
is likely  where Mr Ts and Tescos disagreement  on the value  has arisen.
In a lot of cases additional features added  to vehicles  might actually decrease the likelihood  
of selling the car and in turn its value. For example, Mr Ts car had leather  seats  added  to it 
and whilst this might be desirable for some, for others it wouldnt be. One of the industry  
guides shows the impact  on value for additional extras when a car is up for resale. Ive 
looked up the extras  Mr T added  to see how much the guide says this will add. And in fact 
for Mr Ts car in terms of re-sale value, the industry  guide states  that his and any other 
additional extra would add no value to the car. So, taking all this into consideration, I cant  
say that Tesco hasnt been fair to Mr T in the way it considered his additional extras. 
I do appreciate that to buy a similar car and all the additional extras  Mr T had before  would  
likely cost well in excess of the settlement figure   but this does not mean  that Tesco should 
offer a valuation to cover this. Tesco needs to provide a valuation in line with the market  
value of the car and not the total cost of purchasing the exact same car.
Ultimately my role here is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly and provided a 
settlement thats  in line with the market  valuation of the vehicle. Tescos offer is in excess  of 
the highest valuation given in the industry guides.  And its also taken  into account and 
increased the settlement figure for the additional  extras the vehicle had. So I think  Tescos 
valuation of the car is within  a range that fairly and reasonably reflects the market  value of 
the car prior to the accident.
I know that Mr T has said that he is unable to buy a car for the amount offered. But looking at 
the guides, the amount  paid to him, plus the salvage value that Mr T chose to have deducted 
to keep the car, this should allow Mr T to buy a similar replacement vehicle. So I dont think 
that Tesco has done anything wrong. And I think the settlement offer is fair and in line with 
the terms of Mr Ts policy.
So it follows  that I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8802190