K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited has handled a 
claim made under a motor insurance  policy. They  are particularly unhappy that although  
initially agreeing  to cover all repairs that needed to be done, Admiral  has since  gone back on 
that. 
background
Mrs M has her car insurance  policy with Admiral, and Mr M is a named driver. On 23 July 
2018 another driver  reversed  into the front of their car. There was damage  to the front of 
their car, primarily the bumper. But there  was also a noise  coming  from underneath  it as 
well. They contacted  Admiral on 24 July 2018  about  the accident  but told Admiral they were 
going to claim against the third partys insurance.  A few days  later,  as they hadnt heard  from 
the third-party insurer, they contact Admiral. 
Admiral explained  they could claim through their insurance or they could use a separate 
business to arrange repairs and using  that separate business would mean  they wouldnt 
have to pay excess and it wouldnt affect their no claims bonus. Mr and Mrs M decided to go 
through the third party, which Ill call A. 
On 10 September  2018, Mrs M contacted Admiral as not all the damage had been repaired.  
She was referred  back to A as Admiral was not dealing with the matter.  On 21 September  
2018, Mr M made a complaint to Admiral about A and he had been  told the noise coming  
from the car wasnt accident  related  and he was unhappy as the noise had got worse while 
the car had been with A. Admiral agreed the claim could be pursued  through  it and Mr M 
confirmed he had a solicitors letter confirming the third partys liability for the accident.  
On 24 September  2018, Admiral arranged for the car to be taken to one of its approved  
repairers, which was completed by the following day. On 26 September 2018, Mr M 
complained about the length of time taken for repairs, and that he needed a courtesy car. 
None were available through the approved repairer and so this was arranged  through  the 
third-party insurer. 
On 28 September  2018 Mr M called Admiral as he was unhappy  with how long everything 
was taking and that the noise had got worse. He had been told the noise was as a result  of 
wear and tear but wanted this fixed by Admiral due to the delays. A call handler agreed that 
all costs would be covered by Admiral.  Mr M was also unhappy that he had been allowed to 
drive the car when  it was unsafe. 
By 2 October 2018, repair work had started and was nearly completed.  On 5 October 2018, 
Mr M complained that they needed  their car back as the courtesy car, which was a diesel,  
was costing more  to run than their own car (which was petrol). Although the car had been 
provided by the third-party insurer, Admiral paid them  £50 towards fuel as a goodwill gesture 
while their concerns were  being looked into. The accident damage  was repaired by 9 
October 2018 but not any other damage. Admiral arranged for the car to be delivered to     
Mr and Mrs M because  the wear and tear damage the noise was coming from, meant  the car 
wasnt driveable. 
On 10 October 2018, Admiral issued its final response to the complaint. It didnt agree it was 
responsible for any delays  in the car being repaired, as there were no delays once the claim 
had come back to it. It also didnt agree that it had allowed the car to be driven while  it was 
Ref: DRN84825212unsafe. It said Mr and Mrs M would need to refer those matters  back  to A. But it did agree 
that they were  given  the wrong information  about  Admiral covering repairs  for the wear and 
tear and that the claim hadnt always been managed as expected. So it offered them a total 
of £330 compensation, £30 to cover  call costs  and £300 for being given the wrong 
information and the claim  not always being  handled as expected.  
Our investigator explained that we couldnt  look at any concerns raised about A as it wasnt 
effecting or carrying out a contract of insurance   the regulated activity that we can looks  at 
complaints about  insurance claims under. And he was satisfied the offer made by Admiral  
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Although unhappy with the outcome,       
Mr and Mrs M initially accepted this. But they later asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
In summary,  they dont  feel fairly  treated by Admiral.  They  are unsure the noise is coming 
from damage caused by wear and tear and they are still very unhappy they were  told the 
cost of repairs for the wear and tear would be covered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly  about  their complaint. Although I have  only 
summarised the background and arguments  above, so not everything that happened is 
detailed, I would like to reassure them  and Admiral, that I have read and considered  
everything in its entirety. 
When Mr and Mrs M decided to pursue  their claim through Admiral after the third-party  
insurer had failed to get in touch,  they were  given two options; to either  pursue their claim 
through Admiral,  in which case they would need to pay an excess  and their no claims bonus 
would be affected,  or they could pursue their claim through  a third party. I understand  they 
chose to go through A as they didnt want to pay the excess.  
From 28 July to 21 September 2018,  Mr and Mrs Ms claim was being handled through  A 
and not under their insurance  policy. So what the adjudicator told Mr and Mrs A about us not 
being able to look into their concerns about A is correct. That means I cannot comment  on 
them not being informed the car was unsafe to drive, that the noise had got worse while the 
car was with A, or of the delays to repairs during  that time. They are matters that need to be 
taken up with A, which I understand Mr and Mrs M have done.  
My consideration is limited to the time Admiral was pursuing the claim so from 21 September 
onwards. Im satisfied  that there were no avoidable delays during that process.  Admiral  
agreed to pursue the claim and within a matter of days  the car was with its approved 
repairer. I can see that Mr M was unhappy on 26 September with the time take for repairs,  
but by then the car had only been  with the approved  repairer for one day and the whole 
claim with Admiral for five. I dont think its reasonable to expect the car to have been 
repaired within a day of it arriving  with the approved repairer. I understand the accident  
damage was repaired  by 9 October 2018   a total of 14 days  later. Im satisfied  this is a 
reasonable amount of time for the damage  repair  to take. 
Whilst this was ongoing, there were some issues with the availability of a courtesy car. 
Ultimately, a hire car was provided to Mr and Mrs M by the third-party insurer.  I can they had 
Ref: DRN84825213concerns about  the right car being available and the increased fuel costs. And I can see that 
Mr M wanted Admiral to arrange  a call back from the third-party insurer. But I dont consider 
these were really matters for Admiral to deal with, and certainly not arranging  the call back;  
that is something Mr M should  have pursued himself. Im satisfied Admiral has done more 
than I would expect  it to. And I can also see Admiral contributed to Mr and Mrs Ms 
increased fuel costs when it didnt really  have to. 
Admiral accepts Mr and Mrs M were given incorrect information about it being  willing  to 
cover the costs of any repairs needed  to damage caused by wear and tear. This is very 
unfortunate. But mistakes  do happen. The right way to rectify that is to put the complainants  
in the position they would have been in had they not been given incorrect information. It 
seems to me that is the position they were  in. Had they been  told correctly this is not 
something they can claim for under the policy or that Admiral would otherwise cover, they 
would be required to arrange a repair themselves. I accept being given incorrect  information 
would have caused them considerable disappointment, particularly as they would have had 
their expectations raised about that work being  completed. So they should be fairly 
compensated for the disappointment caused.  
Mr and Mrs M have  more  recently said they were unsure the noise was as a result  of wear 
and tear. But they seem to have accepted this before.  And I know  that both As inspection  
and that carried  out by Admiral both concluded  the damage wasnt  accident related. I havent 
been provided with any persuasive  evidence from Mr and Mrs M that both of those 
inspections were wrong or that the damage  was as a result  of the accident. I therefore find 
no basis on which to ask Admiral to cover the cost of those repairs  as this is not provided for 
in the contract  they have with Admiral.  That contract,  the policy, expressly excludes cover for 
wear and tear.
Admiral also accepts the claim wasnt always managed as it should  have been - for 
example, with clear  outlines of what was going  to happen next.  And so it also offered 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience  caused as a result  of that. I understand that 
in relation to this and the aforementioned incorrect information given, Admiral arranged  
feedback to be given to its staff.  I consider this a positive step to improve  customer 
experience going forward. 
In addition to the £50 paid for increased fuel costs, Admiral offered £330  compensation; £30 
to cover call costs and £300  for the giving  of incorrect information and because  the claim 
wasnt always managed  as it ought  to have been. I consider this a fair reflection of the 
impact this had on Mr and Mrs M. And the other concerns Mr and Mrs M had in relation  to 
the initial delays  and the safety of the car arent matters for Admiral. 
It appears Mr and Mrs M may have  already  accepted the compensation offered by Admiral. 
But if they havent, I leave it to them to decide whether or not they now wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  has already offered a fair resolution to it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ref: DRN84825214ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482521