K821x#15Complaint
Ms N complains about the way Virgin Money  plc handled a chargeback  request. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what I thought  Virgin  Money should  do to put things right. I invited both parties to send any 
additional comments or information for me to consider. 
Ms N responded and said she didnt think the provisional decision was fair. Ms N says that 
the issues raised with Virgin Money  had caused  a delay in repaying  the funds she borrowed. 
Ms N also explained  that in January  2019  Virgin Money told her she wouldnt have to repay 
the refunded transaction but that turned  out to be wrong. Ms N also sent in statements to 
show Virgin Money had continued to charge interest  despite saying her 0% promotional  rate 
had been reinstated. 
Virgin Money accepted  my provisional decision and agreed to increase  the total award to 
£200. In addition, Virgin Money  confirmed  that there was a delay when putting the 
promotional interest  rate back in place. But the rate was now in place  and Virgin Money has 
refunded the additional  interest Ms N paid. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N says she spoke with Virgin Money in January 2019 and it advised she could  keep the 
money it had previously refunded. As a result, Ms N says she has missed  making  
repayments to the balance  that remains outstanding. Whilst I agree Virgin Money  failed to 
provide clear  advice  and information during the process, I havent seen anything  to show it 
specifically told Ms N she could keep the disputed  funds.  Ill explain why. 
Virgin Money received  the completed  chargeback declaration  on 11 December  2018  and it 
refunded the transaction amount of £2,445  the same day. In January 2019 Virgin Money 
sent the £825.91 credit balance back to Ms Ns current account. Whilst I appreciate the 
information provided around  this time wasnt as clear  as it could have been, I dont think  
Virgin Moneys advisors would have told Ms N she was able to keep the prospective refund. 
I think the chargeback  team would have  known the refund was subject to an investigation 
and could potentially  be retaken at a later date.
I note the refunded payment was retaken on 26 March 2019. So Ms N was aware from that 
time that she would  need to repay the outstanding balance. Whilst I appreciate the issue  has 
been the subject of a complaint, Ms N could have continued to make  payments to reduce the 
outstanding balance. Im sorry  to disappoint  Ms N but I havent been  persuaded that it would 
be fair to tell Virgin Money to waive the outstanding balance. 
Ms N sent in evidence  that Virgin Money  continued to apply interest despite confirming her 
promotional 0% interest had been  put back in place. But Virgin  Money has confirmed there 
Ref: DRN82547522was a short delay  in rearranging the promotional rate and that it has now refunded  the 
additional interest she paid. Virgin Money has confirmed  the promotional  rate is back  in 
place. Should Virgin  Money apply  interest during the promotional interest free period  again 
Ms N would need to raise  that as a new complaint  and ask it to investigate. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms N but I havent been persuaded to change  the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision. Whilst I agree some of the information  Virgin  Money 
gave her wasnt as clear as it should have been, I havent found  grounds to tell it to waive 
the outstanding balance.  Virgin Money  has agreed  to pay Ms N £200 and I think thats  fair in 
all the circumstances.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint direct Virgin  Money plc to pay Ms N £200 less any 
compensation already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN82547523Copy provisional  decision dated 26 July 2019
Complaint
Ms N complains about the way Virgin  Money plc handled a chargeback  request. 
Background
In September 2018 Ms N raised a dispute with Virgin  Money in relation to some dental work she paid 
for. The total transaction amount was £2,445 but Ms N wanted to dispute £125 of that. 
After a delay receiving a form Ms N returned the information requested.  Virgin Money has confirmed it 
has no evidence  it explained  the chargeback  process to Ms N after she returned the information it 
asked for. 
Virgin Money started a chargeback dispute and refunded  Ms N with the full £2,445 she paid on 27 
October 2018, which put her balance  £825.91  into credit. It later transferred the credit balance to Ms 
N. 
Ms N says she contacted Virgin  Money to discuss the dispute on various  occasions but says she was 
transferred to different  departments  and her questions werent answered. 
Virgin Money confirmed that when it spoke with Ms N it didnt explain the chargeback process  to her. 
In March 2019  the full £2,445 payment  was retaken from Ms Ns account which took her balance over 
the agreed £2,500 limit. As a result, for two months  Virgin Money  reported adverse  information  to the 
credit reference agencies.  
In April 2019  Virgin Money refunded the £125 Ms N originally disputed. Ms N went on to complain  and 
Virgin Money responded on 15 May 2019 and accepted it had made various  mistakes.  Virgin Money  
said its standard process is to refund the full transaction amount in cases where  only part of the 
payment was disputed. But it agreed Ms N hadnt been given the right information and paid her £100.  
Virgin Money also took steps  to remove the adverse information from Ms Ns credit file and reinstated  
the 0% interest rate which had been removed  when  her account balance  had exceeded the agreed 
credit limit. Virgin Money didnt agree  to waive the outstanding balance. 
Ms N referred her complaint  to our service  and an investigator looked at it. They  said 
Virgin Money had dealt  with the complaint fairly so didnt ask it to increase its offer. Unhappy with the 
response, Ms N asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
All parties agree  that Virgin  Money made mistakes in this case.  Ms N says that she contacted  Virgin 
Money for help but found dealing with the disputes team  difficult and was surprised when the full 
amount of the transaction debited her account in March 2019. Ms Ns asked Virgin  Money  to waive  
the outstanding balance to resolve the complaint. Whilst I understand Ms Ns upset at what 
happened, I dont think it would be fair to tell Virgin Money to waive her outstanding  balance. I 
appreciate there  were  mistakes but Ms N has had the benefit of the funds  spent  on her credit card so 
I think  its reasonable  that she repays the balance. 
But I do agree Ms Ns been treated unfairly. Virgin Money has confirmed it missed various 
opportunities to explain  the chargeback process. Chargebacks are complicated and can take a long 
time to resolve.  Virgin Money should have sent Ms N clear information  about  how the process  worked 
so she could  take steps to ensure her account was ready if the transaction was taken  again at short 
Ref: DRN82547524notice. Virgin Money has confirmed it should have written to Ms N but cant  find evidence that it did. 
Its also confirmed it missed  opportunities  to explain the process over the phone  when Ms N called. 
Ms N says she found Virgin Moneys disputes team difficult to deal with and the information provided 
confusing. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case. 
The amounts involved here were very similar to Ms Ns credit limit. That meant  when the transaction  
was re-debited in March  2019 it took the balance  above the agreed limit which,  in turn, caused the 
promotional interest rate to be cancelled.  Because Ms Ns balance exceeded the credit limit adverse  
information was reported  to the credit  reference agencies  as well. Virgin Money has since reinstated 
the promotional interest rate and taken steps to remove the adverse information but I can understand 
why Ms N was upset by what  happened. 
The MasterCard chargeback rules say a partial  chargeback can be raised  the rules dont say Virgin 
Money had to refund the full transaction amount. Virgin  Money  says its process  is to refund the full 
payment amount. Whilst Virgin Money is free to set its own processes, I can see there was an impact 
in treating Ms Ns chargeback  request in this way as when the funds were  retaken the credit limit was 
exceeded. 
Taking everything Ive seen together, whilst Im not going to tell Virgin Money to waive 
Ms Ns outstanding  balance, I do intend it to tell it to increase the level of compensation. 
Ms Ns told us the situation  caused her unnecessary stress  and unease and I accept thats the case. I 
dont think the £100 Virgin Money has paid to date fairly reflects the impact of its error on Ms N. As a 
result, I intend  to tell Virgin Money to increase the settlement to £200 which more  fairly reflects the 
impact of its mistakes. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and intend to direct Virgin Money plc to pay Ms 
N £200  less any compensation  already paid. 
Ms N and Virgin Money plc have until 26 August  2019  to send  me anything further  theyd like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8254752