K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) by Welcome 
Financial Services Limited  (WFSL).
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which Ive attached 
here and forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision. Neither party  had anything  
further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further they wished me to consider I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and direct Welcome  Financial  Services Limited to pay 
compensation as described in putting things right in my attached  provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  by Welcome  Financial  
Services Limited (WFSL).
background
Mr C took out a loan with WFSL in 2004. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which wouldve 
covered his repayments  for up to 12 months at a time if he became unemployed. If he was too sick to 
work it wouldve paid out until he was able to return to work or the loan was paid off, whichever was 
sooner.
Mr C says, amongst other things, that the terms and conditions werent explained  to him. I have 
considered all of Mr Cs complaint points.
The adjudicator thought that the policy was mis-sold. WFSL disagree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make  a decision.
Ref: DRN83089092my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, I provisionally intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
I can see from the documents provided  by WFSL  that Mr C was given a clear choice  about whether to 
take the PPI and that he chose to do so. 
WFSL gave  Mr C a personal recommendation  to buy the policy, so it had to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was right for him. When Mr C first brought his complaint to this service he wasnt sure 
what work he was doing at the time of sale.  I think  this is understandable given  nearly 15 years have 
passed since  then. WFSL has supplied evidence of Mr Cs occupation  and employer at the time.  
When reminded of this Mr C explained that he was a temporary or seasonal worker. As a temporary 
or seasonal  worker Mr C wouldnt have  been  able to make  a successful unemployment claim against 
the policy.
WFSL say that this wasnt the case. They point to a section in the demands and needs statement, 
one of many  documents signed by Mr C during the sale of the loan and PPI. It says You  confirmed 
that you are working  for 16 hours a week or more (excluding temporary work).  WFSL say this 
shows that Mr C wasnt a temporary  or seasonal worker at the time of sale.  
I disagree. I think this wouldve been easily  missed by Mr C among the numerous  documents he 
signed. And where WFSL have recorded  Mr Cs employment details there was no option to 
specifically ask whether  the employment was temporary or seasonal;  only whether it was full time or 
not  which Mr Cs employment was.
Mr C had only been  in his job for a month or so at the point of sale. It was the month leading up to 
Christmas, in a retail  packing role. And it appears he hadnt been in employment  immediately prior to 
this. I also note that the point of contact given by Mr C to confirm his employment  was a recruitment  
agency, rather  than the retailer. So I think its likely  Mr C was in temporary, seasonal  employment as 
he has described. I dont think that if Mr C had been directly asked about  the tenure  of his 
employment he would have said he was permanently employed  but it doesnt seem that he was 
asked directly. 
The adjudicator thought that if the exclusion for temporary  or seasonal workers  had been  explained to 
Mr C that he wouldnt have bought the policy, so Mr C lost out as a result of what  WFSL did wrong.  I 
agree. However, I think  there was a further failing by WFSL when it assessed the suitability of the 
policy for Mr C.
Looking at the details  WFSL took from Mr C about his employment when he applied  for the loan its 
clear that Mr C had only been in employment for about a month. There  is an additional note saying  
Was helping on St Johns Ambulance  between March and November.  His previous employer  is also 
detailed.
St Johns Ambulance  is a volunteer organisation.  I dont  think Mr C was in paid employment  with 
them, or he would have listed it as one of his employers. 
For Mr C to be able to make  a successful unemployment claim he needed to have been continuously 
employed for the 12 months before the policy  was taken out. I dont think Mr C met this criterion. So 
even if he wasnt a temporary or agency worker the policy wouldnt have been right for him.
I think  WFSLs recommendation  to Mr C was inappropriate and I think  Mr C lost out as a result  of 
WFSLs failings.
Ref: DRN83089093putting thing right
Mr C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been.  He paid more  
than he shouldve each  month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it wouldve done without it. 
So Mr C needs to get back the extra  hes paid.
WFSL should:
 Work out and pay Mr C the difference between what he paid each month  on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
 Work out and pay Mr C the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
would have  cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr C paid from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr C made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, WFSL can take off what  he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  WFSL to take off tax from this interest.  WFSL must give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
 
my provisional  decision
I am currently intending to uphold  Mr Cs complaint although I will consider any further evidence 
supplied by either party  which I receive before  19 July 2019. 
If my decision becomes final I shall direct Welcome  Financial Services Limited to pay compensation  
as described above.
Ref: DRN8308909