K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss C says FICL mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
I understand from information FICL  has given us Miss C took out a store card in December 
1996 and that PPI was added to her account in April 1997  during a phone call.
I also understand the policy  cost no more than £1.00 for each £100 Miss C owed on her 
store card. And that it wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance  on the card each month 
if Miss C couldnt work because shed had an accident, was unwell or lost her job, until the 
balance was cleared or she went back to work.
Miss C says she didnt know she had PPI.
The adjudicator  who looked at Miss Cs complaint didnt uphold  it. Miss C disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. I know  this will disappoint 
Miss C but I hope the reasons Im about  to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
FICL needed to make  it clear to Miss C she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement  
to it. FICL says the PPI was sold over the phone but hasnt been able to give us a recording 
of the call, a call script or any notes taken  at the time. Because  the sale was such a long 
time ago, I dont think this is surprising.  But it means I dont know  what was said during the 
call.
Miss C doesnt remember much about the sale which, again, I dont think  is surprising. With 
so little information about this sale, Ive taken into account what  we know about how FICL  
sold these policies by phone at around  this time and everything weve seen in the past. 
And based on all of this, I think, on balance, its likely FICL wouldve made it clear the PPI 
was optional and Miss C wouldve been asked  to agree to the cover. I say this especially 
bearing in mind Miss Cs card account  had been  open for a few months  before PPI was 
added to it. I havent seen enough   either  through detailed  recollections from Miss C or 
through sales information from the time  to make  me think  any other conclusion  would  be 
fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN80821462Based on what we know about  how FICL sold PPI, I dont think  its likely FICL  advised    
Miss C to take it out. But it still had to give Miss C clear information about  the policy so she 
could decide if she wanted it.  
Miss C cant remember  much about  her circumstances at the time of the sale which,  again, 
isnt surprising. But I havent seen anything to make me think she wasnt eligible for the 
policy or wouldve  been affected  by any of the main things its unlikely to have covered. So I 
think its likely she couldve got the full policy benefit had she needed to make  a claim 
because she was off work  sick or had lost her job. 
Miss C cant remember  what  sick pay she wouldve got from her work but I havent  seen 
anything to make me think the policy wouldnt have been of use to her if she was off work 
sick. It would  also have  helped with her store card repayments if she lost her job.
I think its unlikely FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Miss C to 
understand what its true cost was for her. But, on the limited  information Ive got, I think  if 
Miss C had clearly understood the policys cost and benefits shed still have found it useful,  
as it gave her cover  it seems  she didnt otherwise have.  
So, all in all, on the limited information  Ive got, I dont have enough to say the PPI was mis-
sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8082146