K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about the early repayment  charge (ERC) Virgin Money  plc charged her 
when she redeemed her mortgage.
background
Ms H had a mortgage  with Virgin Money. She decided to move  to another  lender and 
arranged a new mortgage. The new mortgage completed about three weeks before the 
expiry of the fixed rate term on the Virgin  Money mortgage. So Virgin  Money charged her an 
ERC of 3.5% of her balance  around £7,000.
Ms H complained. She didnt think it was fair that she had been charged  an ERC. She said 
there was only around three weeks left  and she had paid the final payment due under the 
fixed rate, so there was no interest  outstanding.  So she didnt think  Virgin Money had 
suffered any loss, and the ERC  didnt  reflect its costs.  She also complained  that it hadnt 
shown that the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of its losses when it was set, and that 
the 3.5% rate applied throughout the fixed rate period, rather  than reducing during it. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Ms H asked for it to be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its standard that a fixed interest  rate product comes  with an ERC  for reasons Ill explain 
below. Where a borrower pays off their mortgage before the expiry of the fixed  rate, an ERC 
is payable. In this case, the mortgage offer confirms that the ERC is 3.5%, and would be 
payable if the mortgage was repaid before the end date of the fixed rate period.
Based on the mortgage terms, therefore, Virgin Money hasnt done anything  wrong  here. 
The ERC is clearly set out and explained, in exactly  the format  the regulator requires. Ms H 
repaid her mortgage  before the expiry date.  So Virgin Money  was entitled, under the 
contract, to charge  the ERC.
But the terms of the mortgage contract  arent the only consideration here. I also need  to take 
into account what the rules of mortgage regulation say  and, ultimately, Im deciding whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Firstly, Virgin  Money  is only required to explain what the ERC is  it doesnt have to set out 
or explain in the offer how it is arrived at.
In very simple terms, when  a lender offers  a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower are tied 
in to the fixed rate for the whole fixed term. Virgin Money has to raise the funds it lends out 
on the money markets.  It has to pay for those  funds  generally over the period it borrows  
them. It relies  on income  from borrowers repaying the mortgages to cover  the costs  of the 
funds it has lent. It budgets for that income  based  on the length and level of fixed rates.
So when borrowers repay early,  the lender wont receive the income it was anticipating, and 
needs to receive  to service its own borrowing. It can insure against that in various ways, but 
Ref: DRN85877002theres a cost either to having the borrowing end early  or to protect  against  those costs. As 
a result,  fixed rate mortgages   not just with Virgin Money, but across the industry  include 
a clause in the mortgage agreement which allows the borrower to exit the mortgage early   
but only in return  for paying an ERC.  The purpose of the ERC is to compensate  the lender 
for the early end of the fixed rate period. An ERC isnt a penalty  which has a strict meaning 
in law (a charge  levied for breaching a contract).  Repaying a mortgage  early isnt a breach of 
the contract, its something specifically allowed for, as long as the borrower pays the charge 
for doing so.
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres 
no restriction on how a lender calculates its ERC. And, crucially, a lender is allowed  to 
estimate the risk and costs of early  termination  across a group of mortgages; it doesnt have 
to do so on an individual basis.
So Virgin Money  can calculate its ERCs  based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of 
early termination of a group of mortgages  not on the actual cost,  or estimated cost, of 
Ms H ending her particular mortgage  early.
In practice, it cant be known at the time the mortgage is taken out whether an individual 
borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate 
in advance the costs of ending the particular mortgage early. But the lender can estimate  
how many  borrowers, on average, will do so  and apply those costs  across a group of 
mortgages. The price  of the mortgage,  both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level 
that allows the lender to recover its costs and operate its business.
Virgin Money has sent us information about  how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages of the 
type Ms H held was calculated. Its done  so in confidence.  Our rules  allow either party  to a 
complaint to submit  evidence in confidence.  Its then for us to decide if its fair to rely on it 
when deciding the outcome. Virgin Money  has given us information about  how it funds its 
mortgages, and how it calculates its ERCs. That information is commercially sensitive and 
confidential. But its also material  and highly  relevant  to this complaint. So Im satisfied that 
its appropriate for me to receive it in confidence,  subject to me summarising it. 
In summary,  the information shows that theres  a cost to Virgin  Money in having to break the 
arrangements it has entered into to fund its mortgages when  the mortgage end early.  Those  
costs are recovered from the lending. It allocates  that cost across  its mortgages factoring in 
an estimate of how many  will end before their fixed rates expire.  It then uses  that estimate to 
set the ERC which is built in to every mortgage   in the expectation that if the predicted  
number of mortgages end early,  overall  the ERCs  generated  will cover the costs  to Virgin  
Money of early termination.
The ERC Ms H paid isnt designed to reflect any losses Virgin  Money incurred because she 
repaid her mortgage  early. Given how close to the end of the fixed rate term she redeemed  
it, she may well be right that those losses are less than the ERC  or even that, in the case 
of her particular mortgage, there arent  any losses at all. But thats  not relevant to whether  
the ERC  was set fairly   because, as the rules allow, its set to generate  an estimated share  
of the average  loss across the group of mortgages,  not the actual individual  losses  on that 
one. 
Ref: DRN85877003In some cases, if the mortgage ends very early, the ERC might not allow  Virgin Money to 
recover its full losses. In other cases, like this one, where it ends very late the ERC might 
exceed the losses on that mortgage. But Virgin Money doesnt have to calculate  the losses 
individually. It can take an average  across  the group of mortgage and charge that amount in 
each case  and its in the nature of an average that it will be high in some  cases and low in 
others. This approach of applying  the ERC across a group of mortgages,  rather than 
individually, is something specifically allowed for in the regulators rules, so I dont think  its 
an unfair approach.
 
Its also important to note that the ERC  has to be set out in the mortgage offer  in other 
words, in advance of it being  charged. Indeed,  in some  cases it will never be charged at all. 
So the ERC is an estimate  of what the likely average cost would be, rather  than an actual  
figure. Again, thats something  thats  specifically allowed  for in the rules. The information 
Virgin Money has provided shows that it set the ERC at a level that reflected  its reasonable 
estimate of the likely costs.
Finally, Virgin  Money chose to recover the costs through use of a flat rate rather than a 
stepped rate ERC (that is, one which reduces over time).  Its 3.5%  throughout the fixed  term. 
But theres no requirement to have  a stepped rate  some lenders  do, some  dont. As Ive 
said, it calculated its ERC  in line with the relevant rules.  And, as it was clearly set out in the 
mortgage offer  both the method of calculating it, and a cash  figure  I think  it was fair that 
Virgin Money charged it when the mortgage  was repaid. Because it was an estimate, and an 
estimate of the average amount spread across a group of mortgages,  it doesnt matter than 
in her particular case  Ms H was very near to the end of the fixed rate period and had made 
all the payments. She was at one extreme of the mortgages included  in the calculation of the 
average cost  but still within  it. 
Taking everything into account   and while I can understand why Ms H doesnt agree  Im 
satisfied Virgin Money charged  an ERC it was entitled to charge, calculated  in line with the 
rules that apply. So I dont think it would be fair to ask it to refund the ERC.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8587700