K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the poor service he received from Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) in connection  with the setting up of his pension annuity. He also complains that Aviva 
hasnt given him a satisfactory explanation for the significant reduction  in the final plan value 
that he received,  compared to what it was around a year earlier. 
background 
Mr H held a With-Profits pension plan with AXA, which later became FriendsLife  and is now 
part of Aviva. For the sake  of clarity  Ill simply  refer to Aviva in this decision. 
Mr Hs plan had a Normal Retirement Date (NRD) of 18 March 2017   his 60th birthday. Hed 
received a pre-retirement  letter in November  2016,  but on 3 February 2017 Mr H received a 
reminder  that his retirement date was approaching. The letter confirmed that the pension 
fund value was £47,821.67  and the transfer value was £83,392.29. The difference in value 
was explained  as This type of fund may have a final or 'terminal' bonus that may be payable  
when you leave the fund. Your transfer value shown will include this bonus if currently  
applicable but this is not guaranteed.
But Mr H decided to delay  taking  his pension benefits until after that date.  He confirmed this 
in writing to Aviva but didnt specify a new NRD at that point.  Mr H received an annual 
statement in December 2017 which showed  the plans transfer value had fallen  slightly  to 
£82,779.85, a drop of less than 1%. 
Mr H decided to take his pension benefits from the plan in April 2018.  In the process  of 
setting up the annuity, Aviva  sent Mr H a number of incorrect quotes and failed to properly 
respond to his queries when he tried to find out what was going  on. Eventually  he was paid a 
total value of £80,625.22. But Mr H didnt understand  why the overall  value had fallen so 
much in the last year. He said he wasnt made aware that such a fall was even possible. He 
also complained  about the delays and mistakes  in setting  up his annuity.  
Aviva accepted its service  hadnt  been good enough, and paid Mr H £400  in total for the 
trouble and upset  it caused. It also made  two additional monthly pension  payments in 
recognition that its mistakes had caused a delay in setting up the pension.
Mr H accepted Avivas payments in connection with poor service and delay, but he remained 
unhappy with the transfer value Aviva had used to calculate his pension. He said the value 
had dropped by about 16%,  compared to the value hed been given a year earlier,  but Aviva 
had provided no explanation for this. He decided to bring his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and said she was satisfied that Aviva had 
given Mr H all the necessary factual information  to make an informed decision about drawing 
his benefits. 
She said Aviva had made Mr H aware  that the final bonus wasnt  guaranteed  and there had 
been a risk that it could fall if he decided to defer  his NRD. And she didnt consider Aviva 
had penalised  Mr H for taking his benefits when he did. 
But she did think that Aviva had provided  Mr H with a poor service.  She thought its payment 
of £400, as well as the backdated annuity  payments, was a fair and reasonable resolution for 
the distress and inconvenience  that had been caused.
Mr H, although he accepted most of the findings  specifically around  the amount of 
compensation for Avivas poor service  didnt agree fully. He made  the following points:
Ref: DRN82028412He didnt think Aviva had applied its smoothing  policy as described in its literature. 
He wanted proof to show it hadnt  miscalculated  the final value.
He had another similar policy invested  in the same fund. But that had increased in 
value over the same period. Mr H wanted  an explanation for the difference in value 
between the two plans. 
Hed seen  in a with-profits booklet  from Friends Life  that pay-outs  shouldnt 
change by more  than 15% per annum. So he couldnt understand why the terminal  
bonus value hed received had fallen by 16% in one year.
He said hed not been made aware that his pension value might be scaled back 
because hed taken  benefits before his NRD. He wanted  to see a breakdown  of how 
Aviva had calculated  the final transfer  value to see if any reduction was applied.  
The adjudicator explained that there  are a number of factors that affect  the actual bonuses a 
business might allocate  to its policies  some of which are beyond its control. But Mr H didnt 
agree with the outcome,  so as no resolution  could be found the complaints been passed  to 
me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so I agree with the 
adjudicators findings  and for largely  the same  reasons. 
Mr H has said that hes satisfied with the payment Aviva made to compensate him for the 
mistakes it made in issuing quotations, and hes satisfied with the additional annuity  
payments its made. So what Im left to consider is whether Aviva paid the correct  final plan 
value and whether  it made Mr H aware of the possibility it could fall after he decided  to defer 
taking his benefits and changed his NRD. 
Did Aviva make it clear  the final value could  change? 
The letter Aviva sent to Mr H in February 2017  set out a transfer value of £83,392.29.  
Underneath the value it said the fund values stated above are not guaranteed. Remember 
fund values can go up as well as down. Your plan is invested in our With-Profits  Fund.  This 
type of fund may have a final or terminal bonus that may be payable  when you leave the 
fund. Your transfer  value shown will include  this bonus if currently applicable but this is not 
guaranteed. There was a projected  fund value of £47,281.67  noted  in the letter,  so the 
remaining amount  that made up the transfer  value was a final bonus  which Aviva had said 
wasnt guaranteed.  
The same letter also confirmed the risks that might apply if the NRD was deferred.  Firstly  
that You might choose to take your benefits later,  in this case, the income  you could get 
may be more or less than if you take your benefits  now. This is because the value of your 
fund can change.  
It explained how the benefits  within the With-Profits fund might be affected  because This 
type of fund may have a 'terminal' or final bonus  that could be payable  when your plan 
leaves the fund. If you take your benefits  later, the bonus could be more  or less than its 
value at your original retirement date.
So, looking  at the information that was made  available to Mr H before his NRD, I dont think 
Aviva has misled him. I think he was made aware  through a number of statements  that 
the value of the plan could change. Mr H was also informed  that he could switch out of the 
With Profits Fund to another fund at your normal retirement date, we will not charge  you for 
Ref: DRN82028413this switch. If you do this, you will lock in any bonuses you have  earned  from the With Profits  
Fund. So Mr H was also made aware that he could switch funds without any penalty, 
although he didnt  take this course of action.
Was the final plan value correct?
 
Mr H accepts that bonuses on With-Profit  funds  arent guaranteed. But he doesnt  
understand why the plan value reduced so significantly  over such a short space of time, 
when market conditions  were favourable and no market value adjustment  had been applied. 
He says he didnt  expect such a reduction in the value of a With-Profits policy and if hed 
known what could happen he would have drawn his benefits when he was age 60. This 
would have provided him with an extra year of income and a similar monthly income to what 
he received from age 61.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration here because,  on the face of it, his plan did reduce  in 
value and there didnt appear  to be an obvious  market related reason for this to happen.  
Indeed Mr H has made us aware  of a very similar policy he held  which  was invested  in the 
same fund, but hadnt fallen in value when he drew  those benefits a few months later.  
Avivas only explanation for what happened was that the terminal  bonus  on Mr Hs plan fell, 
which caused the plans overall value to be reduced on the date he decided to draw the 
benefits. 
So Ive asked Aviva  to provide a full breakdown of the value of both plans on 
3 February 2017,  and also on the dates the benefits were drawn from both plans. And 
having done so Im satisfied that Aviva  hasnt made  any errors in its calculation.  I say that 
because the fund value of Mr Hs main plan increased by around £2,700 between those 
dates but the terminal  bonus fell by around £5,500, thereby causing an overall  drop of over 
£2,700 or 3.4%. But at the same time the deductions applied  during the calculation  were 
zero, which showed  that no reduction, or scaling back was applied to the value  because  of 
Mr H taking his benefits before  the revised  NRD. This was simply a case  of the terminal 
bonus falling   which as Ive explained  above was possible with the fund Mr H invested in. 
Mr H is right in saying  that his other plan increased in overall  value  even  though a 
deduction was applied to that plan, but the terminal bonus increased. However, the terminal 
bonus that is applied to any plan depends on many factors  such as the term, the original 
basic guaranteed  pension,  the amount of investment  and the date it was paid out. So, 
looking at some of the differences  between  Mr Hs two plans its not unreasonable  that the 
terminal bonus applied  to both plans was somewhat  different. 
But regardless of the reasons for the difference, I cant  see that Aviva has made  an error in 
its calculations here,  and I hope  Mr H can understand  that this is the case. I appreciate he 
wont be happy about the outcome of this part of his complaint  but I hope he can understand 
the reasons behind the conclusions Ive drawn.
The other points  Mr H raised
Mr H has suggested that the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) applied to his pension income 
was lower when compared to what  he was promised in his original policy documentation. 
Aviva has confirmed it did apply the GAR in line with what was originally agreed and I can 
see that the basis on which the original  figures were  quoted (annual payments in arrears  
with and without  a five year guarantee) is slightly different to the monthly  in advance 
Ref: DRN82028414payment that was noted in an illustration  following Mr Hs payment. Im satisfied therefore 
that the GAR  was applied in line with the figure that Aviva said would be used.  
Mr H also says that Aviva recommended he spoke with Pension Wise before drawing his 
benefits. He says when he spoke with them he wasnt advised  about any penalties  that 
might be applied to his plan if he deferred  taking his benefits, or that he might receive a 
smaller pension than the one Aviva had set out in its initial  annuity  quotation.  
But this complaint isnt about  Pension Wise, Im looking at whether Aviva acted unfairly by 
reducing the final plan value and not making  Mr H aware that could happen.  I know  Aviva 
advised Mr H to seek advice from Pension Wise before he made a decision, but thats  
something the regulator has told providers  to do to ensure  consumers are fully informed 
before they make  such financial  decisions.  
Mr H says that rather than stating that Aviva have the right to change  the bonus  value  as 
they please with no explanation to their customers,  the ombudsman  should expect a 
company to behave  in an ethical and fair manner to its customers.  He would like Aviva to 
justify its actions.
But the way in which a provider like Aviva manages  its With-Profits funds is a matter for its 
own commercial judgment,  and the fall in value here was the result  of the process it uses to 
determine terminal bonuses. Aviva publishes  its own Principle and Practices of Financial 
Management document (PPFM) to explain  how the With-Profits fund works. But regardless,  
any failings in the management  of the With-Profits fund would be a matter  for the regulator to 
consider. However,  I am not aware  of it having any current concerns about the operation of 
this fund.
summary
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment in thinking he would have received more  overall  
pension income  if hed drawn  his benefits  a year earlier.  Especially  with his belief that Aviva 
didnt make him aware of just how much  his plan value could fall. But ultimately,  I think Aviva 
did make  him aware that the terminal  bonus aspect of his plan wasnt guaranteed, and I 
dont think it suggested  there was a limit on how much it could vary.
Im satisfied that Aviva calculated the final pension value correctly, and that it was simply a 
fall in the terminal bonus that reduced the overall  value.  Ive not seen any evidence  to show 
that any other deductions were made  to the final value of the plan or that the value was 
affected because  Mr H took the benefits before his revised NRD.     
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN82028415ombudsman
Ref: DRN82028416
Ref: DRN8202841