K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained because  Kensington Mortgage Company Limited paid lease  costs  relating 
to his property, and added them to his mortgage.
background
Mr D had a mortgage  with Kensington. His property was leasehold, so he was obliged to pay 
lease costs such as ground rent to the leasehold management company.
In November 2017, Kensington received a letter from solicitors  for the management 
company, saying that Mr D was owed £1,475.03. The letter enclosed a section 121 notice 
under the Law of Property Act 1925, and pointed out that further  action would have a 
detrimental effect on Kensingtons security.
Kensington wrote to Mr D on 20 November.  It pointed  out that if Mr D didnt pay the lease 
costs, he was breaking the terms and conditions of his mortgage.  It asked him to pay the 
management companys solicitors within  seven days, and provide Kensington with evidence. 
It also said that it needed evidence if Mr D had either come to a payment arrangement with 
the management company, or if he was disputing the amount due.
Kensingtons letter also said that if Mr D didnt take any action, Kensington would consider 
paying the amount the solicitors said Mr D owed,  to protect its security. It would then add this 
to the mortgage,  together with a lease payment fee of £55 if it had to make the payment.
Mr D rang Kensington  and said he was in dispute with the management company. 
Kensington wrote to the management company  solicitors to advise them,  and confirmed to 
Mr D that he needed  to submit his dispute within 14 days. Mr D told Kensington that hed 
made an arrangement  to pay and didnt want Kensington to pay the money  on his behalf.
The management company chased  Kensington a number of times in the next few months,  
but Kensington replied that it wouldnt pay while there was a dispute and an arrangement.  
The management company replied saying  that there was no valid dispute, nor had Mr D 
made an arrangement. By March, neither Kensington  nor the solicitors  for the management 
company had heard from Mr D since December.
On 13 March, the solicitors for the management company repeated to Kensington that there  
was no valid dispute,  and no arrangement to pay. They  said they were advising their client  
about enforcing the section 121 notice. Kensington then paid the solicitors  the £1,086.01  
which the solicitors said was the amount  currently due. Kensington wrote to Mr D to tell him 
it had done so, and it had charged this amount plus a £55 lease payment fee, to Mr Ds 
mortgage. Kensington said this was payable immediately and interest  would be charged. If 
Mr D didnt pay, hed be breaking his mortgage  terms and conditions,  and Kensington might 
consider legal action, which might  result in possessing Mr Ds property.
Mr D complained. He said hed already paid. Kensington asked for proof. It said that it had 
asked the solicitors for the management  company  to check  its records. If Mr D had paid, 
Kensington would look at removing the debits. But the solicitors said they had no record of 
receiving any money  from Mr D, nor was there an arrangement to pay. Nor did Mr D send 
documentary evidence.
Ref: DRN88414822Mr D told Kensington that a representative of the management company had visited  him, to 
set up an arrangement. Kensington advised him that it wasnt  in touch with the management 
company direct, and he should  seek independent  advice.
In its final response to Mr Ds complaint, Kensington pointed  out that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ds mortgage  required him to pay ground rent and service  charges. If he 
didnt, Kensington  would make the payment on his behalf and add the amount to his 
mortgage. It set out what had happened,  and said that it had made the payment to protect its 
interest in the property.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  He said hed been  out of the country 
when the management company had written  to him. He explained  that when he got back, 
hed agreed an arrangement  and had paid the fees.  He complained  that hed been sent a bill 
for over £1,000  for solicitors costs, which he disputed. He said hed told Kensington not to 
pay, but it had.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She considered  that Kensington had no 
alternative but to pay the lease costs. These costs werent solicitors costs, but service 
charges/ground rent which Mr D owed the management company.  She pointed  out that in 
November 2017,  the solicitors  had served Kensington with a notice  to pay within 21 days. 
Kensington had passed  on Mr Ds explanations that he was in dispute  and had made an 
arrangement to pay. And Kensington had asked Mr D for evidence of this  but he hadnt 
provided it.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He sent several detailed emails about the situation. He said that the 
money Kensington had paid wasnt ground rent. Mr D said hed paid that and had sent 
evidence to Kensington. He said the money was an unlawful demand from the management 
company based  on a mistake. He said he had the right to see how Kensingtons security 
was at risk. Mr D wanted to resolve  the dispute  fairly in court  and he said Kensington had 
taken that chance of a fair trial away from him.
Mr D also said that Kensington had ignored  his emails and phone  calls,  and hed told them in 
December 2017  that there  was a dispute.  He asked whether Kensington was still obliged  to 
make the payment given that it wasnt ground  rent. He said Kensington had jumped to 
conclusions and found him guilty without  knowing anything  about the dispute.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered this complaint in two sections  whether Kensington  had the authority to pay 
the sum requested by the management  company solicitor, and whether it was justified in 
doing so in the circumstances  of Mr Ds complaint.
Kensingtons authority to pay the sum requested by the management  company solicitors
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds mortgage, which  he accepted  when he 
took out the mortgage. The relevant sections are 6.5 and 6.6 and these  give Kensington the 
authority to act as it did. Section  6.5 includes a number of matters,  including lease-related 
issues, and provides that the borrower  will not do anything to cause the lease or agreement  
for lease  to be liable  for forfeiture. And Section 6.6 says that if the borrower doesnt comply,  
Ref: DRN88414823we can do anything which you should have done under those conditions on your behalf.  If 
we do, you will be responsible for any expenses we reasonably incur.
I have checked  Kensingtons fee list for the appropriate time, and the list quotes  a £55 fee 
chargeable if the lender  pays  any charges in respect of your lease on your behalf.
 
So I find that Kensington acted within its powers when it debited Mr Ds account with 
£1,086.01 and the fee of £55.  
Whether Kensington was justified in paying  the charges  in Mr Ds circumstances
Ive carefully read the email and letter correspondence between Mr D and Kensington. I find 
that Kensington had no choice but to pay the costs  claimed by the management  companys 
solicitors. A lenders security  is at risk if a Section  21 notice is served.  Kensington received 
such a notice on Mr Ds property in early November 2017. 
I note that Kensington didnt pay the money  requested straightaway.  It notified  Mr D, and 
explained the situation, including warning him that it might have to pay, and if so would  
charge a £55 fee as well. I can also see that Kensington passed on Mr Ds arguments that 
hed paid; that hed made  an arrangement to pay; and that he was in dispute with the 
management company.  So I find that Kensington acted fairly.
I have seen nothing  to show that Mr D ever provided Kensington with documentary  evidence 
about any of these matters. Without documentary evidence, there was no reason  for the 
solicitors to withdraw from their plans about taking the Section 21 notice to the next stage. I 
consider that Kensington acted very fairly by giving Mr D repeated opportunities to provide 
documentary evidence  of the various  explanations  he provided.
To answer  Mr Ds specific points, Mr D has provided  no evidence that hed paid the ground  
rent and that the overdue amount  was, as he believes, solely  composed of solicitors costs  
or an unlawful demand from the management  company. 
I recognise that Mr Ds told us he had a dispute  with the management  company. But it wasnt 
for Kensington to investigate the rights and wrongs  of that dispute. Its sole concern  was 
whether or not its security  was in jeopardy  because  the sums  remained unpaid. Kensington 
did tell the management company solicitors that Mr D was in dispute  but the solicitors said 
there wasnt any valid dispute, and Mr D didnt provide evidence. 
And as the adjudicator pointed out, this service cant  consider complaints about property 
management issues. In this complaint, I can only consider whether or not Kensington did 
anything wrong  when it paid the charges.     
Mr D has also complained  that Kensingtons actions took away his chance  of a fair trial in 
court about  the sums due. Its not for this service  to comment on court  hearings, and I dont 
do so. But I think its unlikely that Kensington having paid the amount  due would prevent Mr 
D from pursuing his dispute in whatever  legal  way he considers appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN88414824Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8841482