K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) have only paid part of her claim 
under her travel insurance policy. Ive referred  to ERV all the way through  the decision for 
the sake of ease, although  the claim was handled by ERVs claim handling agent.
background
Mrs S took out a single  trip travel insurance  policy with ERV to provide cover for her holiday 
in July 2018. During her holiday her handbag was stolen from beside her while she was at 
the beach. She had some  personal belongings and £300 in cash in it at the time. Mrs S 
reported this to the police and received an email confirmation with the crime reference 
number.   
Mrs S informed ERV and completed a claim form. She told ERV that the police  had told her 
that they didnt  provide written reports.  And ERV said they would check this with the police. 
Mrs S then called ERV for an update  and agreed  to send  evidence shed withdrawn the 
stolen cash before her holiday, which she did. 
ERV accepted the claim for the personal belongings but rejected the claim for the cash. 
They explained this was because the policy  only covers money  stolen while on the person or 
in a safety deposit box and the cash wasnt on Mrs Ss person at the time it was stolen. They  
also mentioned  they couldnt be sure cash that was withdrawn a month before her holiday, 
was the cash  that was stolen. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs S complained. She argued  that, given the handbag was next to her, it 
should be interpreted  as being on her person.  ERV did not agree and rejected Mrs Ss 
complaint. In doing so they pointed  out she had also failed to comply with the policy  
condition requiring her to provide a written police report. 
Mrs S complained to us and one of our investigators reviewed her complaint. The 
investigator said ERV should  pay Mrs Ss claim on the basis the handbag was effectively on 
her person.  And the fact the cash was withdrawn  a month before Mrs Ss holiday didnt 
mean it wasnt the cash that was stolen. She also mentioned that it wasnt  appropriate  for 
ERV to rely on the fact that Mrs S didnt provide a written police report,  when it had paid out 
on the other items Mrs S had lost without this. And bearing in mind Mrs S had explained the 
police didnt provide written  reports. 
ERV did not agree and maintain the money wasnt on Mrs Ss person. So, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The policy conditions require Mrs S to provide a written report  from the police.  And, while 
ERV hasnt disputed  the investigators  view on this issue, I agree its not appropriate for ERV 
to rely on the fact Mrs S didnt provide one. Shes provided sufficient evidence that she 
reported the theft to the police; and explained  that they told her they dont provide written  
reports.
Ref: DRN88343652ERV questioned whether the money Mrs S withdrew  a month before the holiday,  was the 
money that was stolen.  I agree with the investigator that the money  being  withdrawn  a month  
before does not mean it wasnt taken on the holiday.  Mrs S has also confirmed this was 
withdrawn from her account ahead of the holiday, to prevent it from being spent. I am 
therefore satisfied  that it is more  likely  than not, that the money taken, was the money 
withdrawn.
So, I must consider  whether it was fair and reasonable for ERV to decline the cash element  
of the claim given that it was in Mrs Ss handbag  which was next to her when it was taken. 
Under section 7, Subsection C  Personal Property  it states  ERV will pay up to £400 (cash 
is limited to £200) and monies claimed for must have been  lost or stolen whilst on your 
person or left in a locked  hotel safe or safety deposit box. 
Mrs S has explained to us that the cash was in her handbag and her handbag was by her 
arm but not in her eyeline. She was at the beach with friends and family and there was 
approximately half an hour between seeing the handbag and then noticing  it had gone 
missing. Mrs S has said there were  a group of people sitting  close by, who werent there 
when she realised her handbag  had gone missing.
In these particular  set of circumstances, I do not think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
ERV to pay this part of the claim. This is because the handbag was not on Mrs Ss person. 
Further, she has said there  were  around  30 minutes  between seeing the handbag and her 
realising it had gone missing. If Mrs S had been  distracted  for a brief moment, this may have  
altered my decision.  I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed with this decision, however I 
must give due consideration to the length of time the handbag was not being  observed by 
Mrs S whilst it was next to her.
the response to my provisional  decision
ERV had no further comments.
Mrs S doesnt agree  with my provisional  decision. She has now said the handbag was 
beside her while she was on a very busy beach with family members  and she was looking at 
it, but she was distracted  for a brief moment,  while she was looking at the ocean. 
Shes gone on to explain  that when she spoke to our investigator in January, she didnt 
mean it was half an hour before shed realised  her bag had been taken, but that she had 
been looking  for it for half an hour.  Shes said it was about five minutes  before shed realised 
it had been taken. Shes pointed out that we asked her to recall something that happened in 
2018 and that we cant expect her to remember every detail of the day.
So, it is clear Mrs S thinks her bag should  be seen as on her person at the time it was stolen. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mrs Ss response to it. 
Mrs S has attempted to clarify  what happened when her handbag  was taken. And I 
appreciate it is difficult to recall things  that happened  a long time ago clearly. But, Ive 
listened to a recording of the call when  she provided the information about what  happened,  
Ref: DRN88343653to our investigator in January. And Im satisfied she had the opportunity  to clarify the position 
and she could have  said if she couldnt  really recall  what  had happened.  
In this call Mrs S seemed  sure that she didnt  notice her bag being  stolen  and that is was 
30 minutes before she realised this had happened. I realise she has now said this wasnt the 
case, but I have  to decide whats most likely  based on all the evidence.  And  bearing in 
mind this is what Mrs S said before I issued my provisional decision explaining  why I didnt 
think ERV should  meet her claim for the cash shed had stolen, I think  it is most likely to be 
what happened. 
Therefore, I still dont think that Mrs Ss handbag was on her person at the time it was stolen. 
So, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct ERV to settle her claim for the cash that was in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8834365