K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them  a fee-
paying Royalties  Gold packaged account  in 2001.  This account was later changed  by RBS 
to a Select  Platinum account in 2015 and then it was changed to a Reward Platinum  account  
in 2017.
background
RBS upheld the complaint and awarded  Mr and Mrs F the following redress:
Total account fees charged up to 27 July 2018 - £2,622.59
8% simple interest on those fees,  after tax (at the basic  rate) was deducted  - 
£1,307.91
Less the savings  received  on the overdraft due to having the packaged  account  - 
£597.10
Based on the above redress, on 17 August 2018  RBS credited Mr and Mrs Fs account 
£3,372.40  which represents  the above  redress plus £39 to cover sixty days of future  
account fees. This was to provide Mr and Mrs F enough time to downgrade their account if 
they wanted too.
Mr and Mrs F disputed  the redress and RBS agreed to refund  £96 of overdraft charges that it 
said were charged as a direct result of the account fee being applied to the account.  And it 
also refunded £337.67  of overdraft interest which covered  the interest charged on the 
account in the months that the above overdraft  charges were applied.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy with how the redress was calculated.  In summary they felt 
that awarding 8% simple  interest on the account fees didnt  sufficiently reflect how much  
they wouldve  actually  been charged in overdraft interest on those account fees. And they 
felt that the cumulative effect  of the fees being  applied to the account  whilst it was heavily 
overdrawn was also not sufficiently reflected in the redress.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she felt that the redress RBS had paid 
to Mr and Mrs F was reasonable.  Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for their complaint  to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
I reviewed the complaint  and in summary I thought that the interest should be calculated on 
an overdraft interest rate, rather than 8% simple  interest, as Mr and Mrs Fs account was 
overdrawn for nearly the whole time they held it. 
However, I didnt think that the cumulative effect  of the charges  should be reflected in the 
redress. This was essentially because its possible that Mr and Mrs F may still have spent 
the amount of the account fee on other things, had the packaged  account  sale not taken 
place. I say this particularly as the account was overdrawn  for almost  the entirety  of the time 
that it was a packaged account.
I therefore said that redress should  be calculated  as follows:
Refund all packaged account fees Mr and Mrs F were charged  from when the 
account was sold to them until 17 August 2018;  and
Ref: DRN83382062add simple interest on those fees - at the debit interest rate that wouldve been 
charged if Mr and Mrs F had held a fee-free  account*  - from the date they were paid 
until 17 August 2018; and 
refund  any overdraft charges that were  incurred as a direct  result of the account fee 
debiting the account  (I understand this amounted to £96);
RBS may, if it chooses to, deduct  the savings Mr and Mrs F received on their 
overdraft as a result  of having  the packaged account;
*RBS should pay this interest rate and not the one actually charged, if the savings Mr and Mrs F 
made on the preferential overdraft interest rate will be deducted.
Once RBS has calculated the total amount due above, it should then deduct the total amount 
of redress already paid to Mr and Mrs F to determine what, if any, extra redress is due to 
them. 
And as Mr and Mrs F have not had the benefit  of this extra amount, RBS should award 8% 
simple interest, less tax on the extra amount owed to them   this should be calculated from 
August 2018 until the date of settlement.
Having put my initial thoughts on how the redress should be calculated to both sides, Mr and 
Mrs F didnt  respond.  But RBS did and it said that it would revise  its redress so that the 
interest paid to Mr and Mrs F would be based  on the overdraft interest  rate of a current 
account and that it would then pay 8% simple interest on this amount, less tax, from August 
2018 until the date of settlement. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used this to help me 
decide this complaint.
I have carefully considered the offer that RBS is willing to make. Although it has not used the 
exact same  method to calculate what is owed  to Mr and Mrs F as Id previously set out, at 
the same  time I think that what it is willing to offer to resolve this complaint isnt 
unreasonable.
RBS has calculated that had overdraft interest  (based on a current account rate rather than 
the rate actually  charged) been  applied to the packaged account fees from June 2001 until 
August 2018,  this wouldve amounted  to £4,581.50.  It has however deducted tax from this 
amount, to leave a figure of £3665.20.
So once the amount of interest  that has already been paid to Mr and Mrs F in 2018  
(£1,307.91) is deducted from this amount, that leaves  £2,357.29 left to be paid to Mr and 
Mrs F.
Furthermore, as Mr and Mrs F have not had the benefit  of this money since August  2018, 
RBS has also said that its prepared to pay 8% simple interest,  less tax, on the amount due 
to Mr and Mrs F (£2,357.29).
RBS has calculated this to be:
Ref: DRN83382063Gross - £305.87
Tax deduction - £61.17
Net- £244.70
Which leaves a combined amount of £2601.99 to be paid to Mr and Mrs F, in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Having considered the above redress, as well as the particular circumstances  of this case, I 
dont think that what RBS has done is unreasonable. For example, RBS based its overdraft 
interest calculations  on a rate of 19.89%. But the interest rates on RBS current  accounts  
varied over the years and for the most part, was actually lower than this amount.  
As such I think  what RBS has agreed to do to put matters right isnt unreasonable  bearing  in 
mind all the circumstances and I dont think it needs  to do anything further, beyond what has 
been set out above, to put matters right.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  RBS to do what  
has been set out above  to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8338206