K820x#14complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) when she took out
a store  card in October 2001.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In October  2001 Miss C applied for a store card by completing an application form. At the 
same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect her card payments.
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Miss C owed on her store  card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Miss C couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint. Miss C disagreed  so the complaint has 
been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Miss C signed and I can see that she signed the 
agreement twice  once for the store card and another time for PPI. If she hadnt  wanted to 
take out the PPI, I think Miss C couldve chosen not to sign the relevant section of the 
agreement. And Ive noted that two other  sections of the application form werent  completed 
indicating she didnt  want two other  optional features  card protection  and an additional 
card holder.  So I think Miss C knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this 
was a monthly policy and wouldve appeared on her monthly store card statements, Miss C 
couldve cancelled it at any time if she didnt want it or she found it unaffordable.
Theres limited  information available to me about  what happened at the time of sale.  So I 
dont know what may or may not have been  said. Given  the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think FICL advised  Miss C to take out the PPI. This means FICL 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable  for Miss Cs circumstances. But it still had to 
provide her with clear  information about  the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to take 
it out - I cant say that FICL did this.
I dont know exactly what information  Miss C received about the policy  at the time of sale. 
Even if I were to accept  that Miss C wasnt given  clear  enough  information  about the policy,  I 
dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Miss C was eligible  for the policy and doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made  it difficult  for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health.  Miss C says she wouldve received some sick pay 
Ref: DRN87501482if she wasnt working  but I think the policy couldve proved useful to Miss C if she had an 
accident, became  ill or lost her job. It wouldve  paid out in addition to any occupational sick 
pay, and allowed her to use any savings she may have had for other, more pressing things. 
She could  also have benefitted from life cover and price and purchase protection.  
Miss C told us she couldve  relied on her family for help. While I understand the point she 
seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that they wouldve  been in any position to help 
her at some unknown point in the future.
Im not satisfied that FICL  made the cost of the policy clear enough for Miss C to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think  if      
Miss C had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought  the 
policy potentially useful.  The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding 
balance was cleared and the monthly cost does  not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont  think FICL did everything  it needed  to when it sold the policy  to Miss C. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about  taking the PPI and I think  she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed  been properly informed about it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8750148