K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about advice  he received  from BlackStar Wealth Management  Ltd. He 
was advised to transfer benefits he held in a group personal pension  (GPP) into a self 
investment personal  pension and invest into a number of investments.
Mr M is represented  in this complaint.
 
background
Mr M took advice in 2014. A fact-find  recorded that he was in his late thirties and married. He 
worked as a self-employed business consultant  with an income  of around £60,000. His wife 
was self-employed  with similar earnings. Their home  was worth around £600,000 with a 
mortgage of £180,000. There  was other  property  worth  £450,000 and they held investments 
worth about  £200,000.
Mr M held a GPP plan with a transfer  value of just under £40,000.
There was a hand-written  note on the fact-find  that said,  I do not want  to invest  money in the 
stock market anymore, I have lost money  over the last 5 years. I only want to invest in 
property. I work in alternative  investments market and I feel I have a sound understanding  of 
the regulators behind them, their nature of non-regulated products and how they work.
A risk questionnaire suggested Mr Ms overall risk profile was that of a high risk investor. 
It also noted that I fully understand the nature and complexity in stock markets property and 
other alternative investment vehicles, and I currently hold, or have previously held, direct 
equities, collective  investments  and/or  alternative  investments.
BlackStar recommended transfer of the GPP into a SIPP with investment into Park First, 
£20,000, Store First, £11,250 and the balance of around £5,600  into a General Investment 
Account via AJ Bell Invest Centre.
Mr M complained in 2014. He said that the advice was unsuitable. The charges on transfer 
were high. This was his only personal pension and 80 per cent of it had been invested  into 
high risk and illiquid investments. He had no previous experience of high risk, unregulated 
and non-standard investments. He was not a sophisticated or high net worth investor.
BlackStar rejected  the complaint. It said, in summary, Mr M's intention  was to retire  at 60 
and he wanted  more control over his pension. He had an active  intention  to invest in 
predetermined investments. He was an experienced investor, particularly in respect of 
property. He was firmly  categorised as a high risk investor and had stated that investing  in 
the alternative investments was a major objective and that he fully understood the risks. 
BlackStar also said that the GIA investment had grown in value. The Store First and the Park 
First investments had been discounted  to effectively include two years  rent upfront. There  
had been full disclosure of the risk profile, the costings  and the advantages and 
disadvantages of the SIPP and the proposed investments. Mr M was both a high net worth 
and sophisticated  investor.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He decided  that the complaint should  be 
upheld. He was not satisfied that Mr M was either a high net worth or a sophisticated 
investor. The Store First and Park First investments were high risk, unregulated and 
Ref: DRN85046762speculative. Mr M had transferred all of his private  pension provision. The charges  alone 
were likely to be detrimental to Mr Ms pension fund.  Although  Mr M appears to have been 
prepared to accept  a high level of risk, he could simply have been advised to consider 
switching funds within the existing GPP. 
BlackStar didnt agree.  It said that Mr M had an interest in four small companies  some of 
which were involved in the promotion  of property investments. Mr M was an introducer. He 
was also a successful  property investor.  Mr M was a high net worth individual and 
sophisticated given  his investment experience and his interest in these small businesses. 
This pension  represented  only 5 per cent of his net worth.  BlackStar added that Mr M had 
entered into a sale agreement  for his Park First property and had also received commission  
from Park First and Store First.
In response, Mr M said, that he has no experience in commercial property investment. He 
had not invested in these  small businesses, he had an interest in them  as the main  owners 
had involved  him because they wanted  to use his sales  experience. The businesses  no 
longer exist. He has not entered into any sale agreement for Park First, and Store  First has a 
winding-up order  against it.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and broadly  with his reasoning. I uphold  this complaint.
The investments in Park First and Store  First were high risk, unregulated and speculative.  
Mr M may have been prepared to take a high level of risk, but I cant see how it was in his 
best interest to invest 80 per cent of his only private personal pension in these particular 
investments.
The GPP  plan where he was invested  offered a wide range of funds. So there was already a 
degree of control,  along with options to switch funds to higher risk investments or towards 
property and away from equities - as he had apparently said he wished to do.
Whilst Mr M may have potentially met the regulators criteria of a high net worth  investor,  
there is no evidence  that he was certified as such. And he was not certified as a 
sophisticated investor. I have noted  what BlackStar has said about Mr Ms connection  with 
introducer firms and small businesses,  but there is nothing about Mr Ms actual occupation  
which suggests that he would truly have any higher than average  investment experience  or 
expertise. I think he was entitled  to rely on the advice that he was given. BlackStar 
recommended these investments but I dont  believe they were suitable  for him. 
The cost of transferring  into the SIPP was substantial. The initial  advice fee and set up 
charges together were  over £2,000  and so around  5 per cent of the fund value. This was a 
relatively modest pension  fund and so these charges would have a disproportionate impact.  
Ref: DRN85046763So for these reasons and for the reasons given by the adjudicator  as set out above, Im 
satisfied that the complaint should  be upheld.
putting things  right
The aim of this redress is to put Mr M in the position he would have been in but for the 
unsuitable advice.  BlackStar must:
1.Obtain a notional  value of Mr Ms GPP  assuming  it had not been  transferred as at the 
date of this decision.
2.Obtain the transfer value  of Mr Ms SIPP at the same date. This should take into 
account any outstanding charges.
3.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ms Store First and Park First investments (and 
also any investments within the GIA which are unregulated. If these investments 
cannot be transferred  they should be given a nil value to calculate compensation.
4.Pay an amount into the SIPP so that the transfer  value in (2) is equal to the notional  
value in (1). The payment should take into account  any available tax relief and the 
effect of charges.
And if the Store  First investment, Park First investment and/or any unregulated  GIA 
investment(s) cannot be removed from the SIPP, Blackstar must:
5.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mr M to the SIPP. This should be 
calculated using  the latest fees charged. This should allow a reasonable time for the 
SIPP to be closed.  Had Blackstar given  suitable  advice I dont think  there  would be a 
SIPP. Its not fair if Mr M continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
6.Pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact on his 
retirement planning.
7.If Mr M does receive any money back from the Store First investment or the Park 
First investment (or any unregulated  investments that may be held in the GIA) after 
he has been compensated  he should pay this to Blackstar. If Blackstar  wishes  to 
draft an undertaking to this effect  at its own cost,  it may do so.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504676