K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about the delay he experienced in receiving from HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) his new credit card. 
background 
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr A and HSBC so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
On the 19 April 2019 Mr A applied for a credit  card with HSBC over the telephone and says 
he told them  needed  the card before he went abroad on the 2 May 2019. He says the 
advisor assured  him the card would be with him before then.
On the 23 April 2019 Mr A spoke  to HSBC who told him the card should be delivered to his 
local branch by Wednesday or Thursday of that week. When  he went into branch he was 
told to come back the week after which he did, on the 30 April and 1 May. Unfortunately  he 
was told the card had still not been received by the branch. 
Because he did not have his credit card, Mr A says he had to cancel his hire car booking  and 
make a new booking  under  his wifes name  and he was subsequently charged extra for that. 
Having made a complaint, HSBC conceded that the card hadnt been  issued  due to a 
processing error. As a result it paid £75 compensation to Mr A for the distress and 
inconvenience which had been caused.
Mr A was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint  
and found that there had been  failings in the level of service provided by HSBC and also that 
the level of compensation offered to Mr A wasnt fair and reasonable. As such  she 
suggested a further £75 for the distress and inconvenience and £35 to cover  the cost of 
switching the car hire.
As Mr A didnt agree  with the investigators  view,  the complaint  has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  What I need to decide is whether HSBC  
acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A. The purpose of my decision  isnt to 
address every single  point  raised. So, my aim is to reach a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts  of the case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Ref: DRN81670932HSBC have accepted there was a failing  in the level of service  and that they should offer 
compensation to Mr A. So, the sole issue is what the correct level of compensation ought to 
be. Mr A has told me that in his professional  capacity he charges £90 per hour and that he 
has spent some considerable  time on this complaint. My first observation of course is that he 
is not dealing  with this complaint as he would a professional matter and as such it has not 
required the same level of skill and expertise. So I cannot accept that it would be appropriate 
to measure any loss that might be proven,  by such a rate. Secondly, this service  does not 
calculate awards of compensation  as would a court. As I have said above our role is to arrive  
at a fair and reasonable decision.
Having said that Mr A was put to some wasted  time in attending the branch on a number of 
days. However, I am not convinced  that it was necessary to travel  there  on every occasion 
and he could have  rung to check  whether the card had been received before he set off. But I 
do agree  with our investigator that HSBC could have done  more here. 
So, I have given thought to the overall level of compensation  our investigator has suggested  
and I think that this is reasonable. It is in line with the awards this service would make for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put 
matters right.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  
my final decision
HSBC has already paid £75 to settle the complaint and I think  it should make  a further 
payment of £75 to Mr A. This is fair in all the circumstances. In addition  HSBC should pay 
Mr A another £35 to cover the cost of switching  his car insurance, provided Mr A is able to 
produce an invoice  or receipt for this charge. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8167093