K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Aviva Insurance Limited  misled her after she made a claim on her motor  
insurance policy and that as a result it was settled  with liability shared between the parties.
 
background
Miss D says she told Aviva in May 2018  that another driver had emerged from a parking 
space in a car park into her car. Miss D says she told Aviva  that she too was reversing, but 
that she was already  established in a lane in the car park. So she thought the other driver 
was fully to blame  for the accident. 
Avivas advisor told Miss D the claim might be disputed, so she may not get her policy 
excess back and may lose her no claims discount  (NCD). Miss D decided to pay for the 
repairs to her car and her policy excess pending  a decision on liability. In August 2018  the 
other drivers  insurer  (insurer B) told Aviva  the other driver wasnt claiming for any damage 
to her car, but disputed liability. She said she and Miss D had reversed into each others 
cars. Aviva thought  the best outcome would be a 50:50 split on liability. 
When Miss D contacted insurer B to reclaim half her policy excess,  she was shocked when it 
told her it hadnt heard  from the other driver. Aviva had told Miss D that it was waiting to hear 
from insurer B about the other drivers costs. Miss D said if shed known the other  driver  
hadnt even contacted insurer  B, she wouldnt have agreed to a 50:50 split. She said shed 
have wanted Aviva to argue that the other driver was 100% liable and take legal action.
Aviva said insurer B had given Miss D the wrong  information, as it had told Aviva the other  
driver disputed liability. But Miss D wasnt convinced Avivas  assurance was accurate. 
One of our investigators  considered Miss Ds complaint and concluded that Aviva had acted 
reasonably. Miss D repeated that she wouldnt  have  accepted split liability had she known 
the other driver hadnt contacted insurer B and wasnt  making  a claim. She also said Aviva 
had recorded  the wrong  details of the accident, which  made her look blameworthy. Overall,  
she thought Aviva had misled her and hadnt properly represented her interests. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
From what  Ive seen on the file, it seems Aviva recorded the wrong details  about  how the 
accident happened. When Miss D corrected the error, she told Aviva she hadnt said shed  
reversed round a corner. She said she did so straight down a lane in the car park and that 
the other driver reversed into that lane. I can see why Miss D was upset that the wrong  
details were on her file, but I dont think Avivas error affected the outcome.
Aviva thought a 50:50 settlement was the only viable option. Both drivers had accepted that 
they were manoeuvring their cars backwards, so they both had a high duty of care to other 
drivers. If Miss Ds version of events is accurate, I can see why she thinks  the other driver 
was fully at fault.  But the problem is that her account  is disputed  and she cant prove  what  
happened. Miss D may have expected the other driver to accept full blame for the accident. I 
think that was always  going to be unlikely,  regardless of the facts.  
Ref: DRN85504942The file notes show that Aviva told Miss D it was waiting to hear from insurer  B about the 
other drivers  costs.  That was also an error,  but in my opinion  it made  no difference to the 
outcome. I dont think the other drivers decision not to make  a claim is relevant to her 
liability for the accident. Once shed disputed what happened, without independent  evidence  
to support Miss Ds account, there was no reason for insurer  B to accept full liability. 
Miss D says shed have expected Aviva to argue her case  and if necessary take legal action. 
But the policy allows Aviva to settle any claim as it sees fit. Insurers dont take legal action 
lightly - and there has to be a reasonable prospect of success  with it. In this case there was 
nothing to support  Miss Ds account. I dont think shed have been able to persuade  Aviva  to 
act any differently. I think it was reasonable for it to settle the claim as it did. 
As Miss D was told directly  by insurer B that the other  driver  had made no contact with it, its 
clear why she doubted the assurance Aviva gave  her to the contrary.  But the file notes show 
that insurer B told Aviva on 30 August 2018  that the other driver had been in contact. So it 
seems insurer  Bs advisor made an error. Aviva didnt mislead Miss D. 
Miss D now has a fault claim on her record and has lost her NCD. Those factors are likely to 
be part of the reason  her premiums have risen.  I can see why shes  unhappy about that and 
about not getting back the full policy excess. But I dont  think  Miss Ds losses are the result  
of Avivas actions. Although it made  errors, in my view they didnt have an impact  on the 
outcome of the claim.  
Before Miss D approached this service, shed already complained to Aviva  about earlier 
claims-handling issues. Those  issues were  resolved, but I think  they will have added  to 
Miss Ds overall disappointment  with Aviva. From her point of view, its poor service has 
continued, so I know Miss D will be unhappy  with my decision. But this complaint is limited to 
the concerns she raised with us that werent already  resolved. I dont think  Miss Ds shown 
that Aviva  should be required to pay compensation  based on those  concerns.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8550494