K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Loans 2 Go Limited  irresponsibly lent to him. He says Loans  2 Go didnt 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks before deciding to lend to him. Mr S 
complains had Loans 2 Go done so, it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable.
background
Loans 2 Go approved Mr S for a loan in September 2017 for £250. The loan was to be paid 
over 18 monthly repayments of £56.64.  Mr S made  9 monthly  repayments  before settling the 
loan early.
Mr S complained to Loans 2 Go saying  the loan was unaffordable to him. He says had 
Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks  it wouldve seen he was in 
financial difficulties  including using his overdraft and taking out other loans (including 
payday loans).
Loans 2 Go says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before lending  to Mr S. 
And based on those  checks the decision to lend was fair as the amount was affordable. 
Loans 2 Go explained to this service it completed an income  and expenditure check, as well 
as checking Mr S credit file before lending to him. It also says Mr S was able to meet his 
repayments and settle the loan early; showing it was affordable. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and upheld it. In upholding the complaint, he 
highlighted the approach  our service takes  to complaints of unaffordable  and irresponsible  
lending  including the overarching question of reasonable and proportionate checks. Our 
investigator felt Loans 2 Go hadnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks; and had 
it done so it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable for Mr S. 
In coming to this conclusion our investigator highlighted that based  on the checks           
Loans 2 Go had conducted,  it should ought to reasonably have completed further detailed 
checks to better understand Mr Ss financial situation. He argued had it done this,                   
Loans 2 Go wouldve seen Mr Ss dependency on his overdraft as well as other  loans in 
order to meet his outgoing commitments. Our investigator also highlighted further checks  
wouldve likely shown Mr Ss second current account which  was being used to facilitate his 
online gambling.  
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigator, saying  it completed relevant checks including  
completing an income and expenditure check, and checking Mr Ss credit file. It says based 
on this information,  it calculated Mr S had disposable income per month of approximately 
£90-100, and as such the loan repayment  was affordable. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has been passed to me to issue  a final 
decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint.
Ref: DRN81618722Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint.
Loans 2 Go needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Mr S. The relevant rules dont set out which 
specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate.  But relevant 
checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and 
their outgoing expenses.  These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
As Loans 2 Go gave Mr S an instalment loan, the checks  which  it conducted had to provide 
enough information for it to able to decide if Mr S could afford  the instalment payments when 
they became due for the duration of the intended  term. 
Loans 2 Go says it completed an income and expenditure  check,  as well as a credit check  
before lending to Mr S. It says these checks were  reasonable and proportionate before 
deciding to lend to Mr S.
Ive reviewed the information which  has been  provided following these checks.  It shows after 
reviewing Mr Ss credit file and applying  a 5% deduction to his income (Loans 2 Go says it 
does this to build in changes in expenses), that Mr S had approximately  £90-100 disposable  
income per month. The credit file also shows Mr S was in his current  account  overdraft by 
approximately £1,200.  
Considering this Im not satisfied these checks alone were enough to persuade  me 
reasonable and proportionate checks were completed. Having seen Mr S was in his 
overdraft by a considerable amount, and having little disposable income a month, I think  
Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have conducted further checks  to understand Mr Ss 
financial situation in more detail. It could have  done this through  the requesting  of bank 
statements.
Had it done this it wouldve  been  in a better  position to understand  if Mr S couldve afforded 
the loan repayments being committed to.
Reviewing Mr Ss bank  statements shows he was not managing his finances well. As 
mentioned above  he was regularly in his overdraft and was supplementing this with payday  
loans in order to meet his essential  outgoings. There are also a large number  of transfers 
from this account to a second current account.  Had Loans 2 Go requested  these bank 
statements it couldve asked more probing  questions about the way Mr S manages his 
finances. In particular it wouldve seen that the months prior to Mr S applying for the loan, he 
was in his overdraft daily, and had taken  four separate pay day loans in order  to meet his 
outgoing commitments.
Loans 2 Go says Mr S used his second  account to pay for some of his repayments, and this 
couldve been used  to meet his outgoings.  Our service has reviewed the bank statements 
from this account, and it is evident it was being  used to facilitate online gambling with no 
additional disposable income  being  present. 
Again Loans  2 Go mayve been  able to understand this situation  better  had it conducted 
further checks in order  to verify some of the questions  posed in the information it gathered. 
Had it done so, I think  it wouldve realised Mr Ss financial  situation  was significantly worse 
Ref: DRN81618723than it thought, and that by lending further  to him, Loans 2 Go was unfairly  increasing  his 
total indebtedness.
So on that basis, Im satisfied that the decision to lend to Mr S wasnt  a fair one as the loan 
was unaffordable to him.  
Finally, I dont accept Loans  2 Gos argument  that Mr Ss ability  to meet  his monthly  
repayments shows the loan was affordable to him. I disagree with this argument, as a lender 
is required to understand whether a potential  borrower can make  any payments without 
undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as Ive explained above, it is evident  Mr S was 
using his overdraft  and payday  loans  in order to supplement his outgoing expenses. So, in 
this case, Mr S making  his payments doesnt  persuade me that he was able to sustainably 
make his loan payments  at the time Loans 2 Go decided to lend to him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I require Loans  2 Go Limited  to:
Refund all interest  and charges Mr S paid on his loan;
pay Mr S 8% simple interest  on the refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans  2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN8161872