K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans that Quick  Quid  provided to Miss H in July 2009 
and August 2009.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Hs complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been 
provided with loan two. Quick Quid  disagreed.  So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans two would most likely  have 
shown that the repayment  required for this loan would have taken a significant portion  of 
Miss Hs monthly income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Miss H 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Ref: DRN89817992Miss H had to pay interest and charges on a loan that Quick Quid shouldnt have provided 
her with. So I think that she lost out because Quick Quid provided  loan two. This means that 
Im upholding Miss Hs complaint about loan two and Quick Quid  should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
remove all interest and charges applied to loan two from the outset. Any payments 
Miss H has made  towards loan two so far should be deducted  from the new starting 
balance.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on this loan even after all the interest and 
charges have been removed. So Id like remind Quick Quid  of its obligation to treat Miss H 
positively and sympathetically should  it wish to collect  the outstanding balance  and Miss H 
be experiencing financial difficulty.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8981799