K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G took out a store card in 2004. The PPI policy was sold in person alongside the store 
card.
The PPI cost £1.50 per £100 and couldve covered Mrs G if she was too ill to work, had an 
accident or lost her job. It also provided  purchase  and price  protection.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  because  I dont  think she wouldve bought  the 
policy had she been given clearer information about its cost and exclusions.
FICL has given me a signed copy of the credit agreement from the time of the sale.  I can see 
this set out the cost of the policy as 15p for every pound of the monthly balance.  But I dont 
think Mrs G wouldve understood what the cost was in real terms. For example, the 
agreement doesnt  show if interest wouldve been added  or if shed have to continue to pay 
the premiums during  a claim.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs G as shes told us she had six months at full pay and 
six months at half pay if she was too ill to work.  Considering her type and length of 
employment, I have  no reason  to doubt  what shes said. So I think  she couldve  met her 
monthly repayments for long enough without  the policy.
Mrs G also suffered a medical  emergency  in 2003 which she had to regularly take 
medication for after that point. The policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions so any 
sickness claims arising for her medical  condition wouldnt have been covered. And I think 
this wouldve  mattered  to Mrs G as I think she wouldve expected  to be able to claim on all 
parts of the policy.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think Mrs G wouldve bought the policy  if shed 
been properly  informed. And I think  Mrs G has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong.
Ref: DRN89082792putting things right
FICL should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs G would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs 
G paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs G paid. And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point when Mrs G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8908279