K822xcomplaint
Mrs E complains that TSB Bank  plc reduced her credit  card limit without sufficient  warning or 
justification. She says this caused her embarrassment and difficulty accessing funds.
background 
Mrs E has a credit card with TSB.  The credit limit on the card was £3,250  until August 2018 
when it was reduced to £1,100. TSB wrote to Mrs E on 10 August 2018 to say the reduction 
would take effect  from 17 August but she didnt receive the letter  until 20 August 2018. This 
meant that the credit card was declined for a purchase she was making and she went £60 
over the new limit because she wasnt aware  of the change. She contacted TSB to complain 
about the change.  In response, TSB waived the fee for going over the limit but took no 
further action. 
Because she didnt  hear back from TSB, Mrs E brought her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because TSB acted within the terms 
and conditions of the account.  So Mrs E asked for review by an ombudsman.  I issued a 
provisional decision on 26 April 2019  upholding the complaint because I thought TSB hadnt 
treated Mrs E fairly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken account of the comments Mrs E 
and the business made  in response to my provisional decision but they dont alter my 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.
The decision  to give credit and the level of a credit limit is a decision businesses  take based  
on their lending criteria and a wide range  of factors including  activity on an account and 
information from credit reference agencies. TSBs terms  and conditions  say the credit limit 
can be changed and it doesnt need to give detailed reasons for changes to a consumer. Its 
not for me to tell a business when it should  lend and how much.  But decisions on credit still 
need to be fair and shouldnt be arbitrary.
I need to assess  whether  or not a consumer has been treated fairly and reasonably by a 
business based on the evidence I have of the particular circumstances of a case.  In terms of 
decisions on credit, that means I should be satisfied  that TSB can explain how it reached a 
decision in line with its lending  criteria  and other policies. I requested further details from 
TSB but its told me it cant explain why this change happened as the decision is based on 
an automated review. Ive looked at the information  provided about Mrs Es account and her 
credit file but there is no obvious reason for the change. I shared Mrs Es credit  file with TSB 
but it hasnt been able to provide  any clarifications.  In these circumstances Im not satisfied  
that Mrs Es been treated  fairly. 
According to its terms and conditions, TSB doesnt  need to give reasons  to Mrs E for the 
change. But that doesnt mean it can treat her unfairly. Automated decisions need to be 
transparent and reviewable to ensure fairness. Therefore, if TSB cant explain how the 
automated system produced the results it did, Im not satisfied that its decision to reduce  the 
credit limit was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN86085232I cant order TSB to reinstate Mrs Es credit limit as thats a business decision that should be 
based on the relevant circumstances at any particular time. And Mrs Es circumstances and 
TSBs lending criteria  may well have changed since 2018. I understand from TSB that Mrs E 
can request a review  of her current credit limit through telephone banking  or by going  into a 
branch. Theres no guarantee the limit will be increased following a review, but any review  
should be carried out fairly.
Mrs E also complained about the delay informing  her of the change. TSBs terms and 
conditions say the credit limit can be changed  and, if the limits decreased, theyll  let the 
customer know before the change takes effect.  TSB did write  to Mrs E before the change 
took effect even  though she didnt receive the letter until afterwards. In the circumstances, I 
dont think it can be held responsible for the delay  in the post. It did waive the fee for going  
over the limit which means Mrs E didnt lose money as a result of this problem.
TSB argues that Mrs E had no financial loss as a result of the change.  But Mrs Es told us 
she did suffer significant trouble and upset  overall  because of the sudden change  to her 
credit limit. This included  the embarrassment at having payments declined  and the trouble 
shes had paying  for things  she reasonably expected to have funds for including medical 
bills. She says this meant she had to borrow money  from other people which she found  
embarrassing. Based on the information Mrs Es given  us about the problems caused her, I 
find TSB should pay her £300 as compensation for the upset its unfair decisions caused 
her.
my final decision
Its my final decision that this complaint is upheld because TSB Bank  Plc is unable  to show  
that its decision was fair and reasonable. 
TSB Bank Plc should pay Mrs E £300. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs E to accept or reject  my decision before 11 July 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8608523