K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a single premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000 when  she applied  for a loan over the internet.
background
Mrs T complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator decided not to uphold the complaint. Mrs 
T disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked  for the matter to be looked at again.
Mrs T added  through her representative  that she did not understand what PPI was and 
did not need it; she did not receive any documents about it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to 
PPI complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  for the reasons I have set out below. 
I looked at whether Nationwide took steps  to show the PPI policy  was an optional product 
because Mrs T said she did not realise she had a choice.  Nationwide told us the PPI was 
sold over the internet,  so there were no discussions about PPI between  Nationwide and Mrs 
T. Nationwide has given  me evidence  from its online  application process which  shows,  
among other things,  information Mrs T would have  been asked to complete during her 
application. I saw that one of the webpages  says: Do you wish to include payment 
protection cover? Yes  No.
So from the evidence  available, it seems more likely that Mrs T was given  an option and she 
actively selected the Yes option to buy PPI. And because she had this choice I think  it was 
clear the policy  was optional. The webpage  also showed  two loan calculations  one with 
PPI and the other without PPI  so I think that too made it clear  that PPI was an optional 
product.  
Nationwide showed  me a copy of Mrs Ts original loan agreement  which  she signed in 2000.  
The agreement clearly  referred to Optional  Credit Insurance. And I saw Mrs T signed and 
dated the form  so I can assume she saw and read the form at some  point. So I think  it was 
made clear to her on the documents that PPI was an optional  product. I also think  that by 
signing the form, she was agreeing to it being added to her loan account. And I think  its 
more likely that she chose  PPI and the loan agreement was drawn up to reflect  that choice. 
Nationwide said the sale was non-advised  which I would expect as this was an internet 
sale. For non-advised sales, Nationwide only had to give Mrs T enough information which 
was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make her own decision. I then looked at her 
financial circumstances to see if she had any need for the cover:   
Mrs T  was eligible  for cover;
She would  get good sick pay benefits  from her employer  if she was off sick;   
Her husband would have helped  her pay the loan repayments; 
Ref: DRN86548182I think Mrs T couldve needed cover  in 2000  if she couldnt  work.  The benefit from the PPI 
would have given  her some income to make the loan repayments.  It wouldve lasted longer 
than her employee benefits  which  although  good,  would  only be available  for as long as 
she worked with that employer. 
Mrs T added she couldve  relied on her husband  to pay her loan repayments. I understand 
the point shes  making.  But I dont know if she couldve  relied on this support at some  
unknown point in the future.
I think Mrs T was given  enough information  about  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. The 
webpages Ive seen gave Mrs T two loan quotes - one with and one without PPI  without 
her having  to click through the terms and conditions. So the costs of the PPI were set out 
clearly online. And I saw the loan agreement  set out the cost of the loan and the cost of the 
PPI policy, the interest to be paid on it, together with the total monthly cost. Having decided 
she wanted the PPI and chose to have it, I dont think any more detailed  information about 
the cost and benefit wouldve changed her mind about buying the policy. 
Mrs T wasnt affected by the things  not covered by the policy (the exclusions). So even if 
shed been given more detailed information about  the exclusions, I dont think it wouldve 
changed her decision  about buying  the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs T probably was aware the policy  was optional. 
And that better information  was unlikely  to have prevented her from buying it. This means 
that I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8654818