K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs M (the consumers) complain they were mis-sold a decreasing  term assurance  
policy by Legal  and General Assurance  Society Limited (the business). They say theyve 
paid for life cover they didnt need.   
Theyre also unhappy about the service  theyve received from the business.   
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019. I explained that I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint, and invited  both parties  to respond. A copy of that provisional decision is attached 
and forms part of this final decision.
The consumers responded and accepted my decision. 
The business replied  but didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary,  it said the 
complaint should  be rejected for the following reasons:
The provisional decision solely focuses on the decreasing term assurance even 
though the consumers  were sold a level term assurance policy, providing cover of 
£240,000 matching  the 15 years term. By doing so, the ombudsman  hasnt taken a 
holistic approach.   
The ombudsmans decision appears  to be driven by the completion of the application 
on page 12  which says the level term assurance policy was for family protection 
and decreasing term assurance  for mortgage protection. The adviser couldve 
confused the purposes of the policies, or because two separate  policies were being  
applied for one had to be completed  on the form marked Personal/Family 
Protection. Subsequent correspondence suggests two policies  were  taken out to 
cover two mortgages rather than family protection. 
Theres no evidence the adviser told the consumers life cover  was mandatory in 
order to obtain  their mortgage.  The 2003  mortgage offer confirms  The Company 
strongly recommends  that adequate life cover should be arranged  to cover the 
mortgage to ensure  that in the event of your death  during the mortgage term the 
mortgage debt is repaid.
They wouldnt have breached their agreement by cancelling the direct  debit 
payments. 
They werent told life cover was mandatory, only that they wouldnt have adequate 
cover in the event  of death.
When the policies  started in August  2003,  one of the plans  was amended  and cover  
reduced to £93,000. This wasnt indicative of someone who didnt want  life cover. 
Mr S wasnt a nave first time buyer.  
Evidently there was discussion and the customers  were  looking to cover their 
mortgage on the most cost effective manner. 
It doesnt think the refund proposed by the ombudsman is fair. The focus of the 
complaint was that a level term assurance  policy wouldve been fair. It isnt fair that 
they had the benefit  of cover for 15 years and pay nothing  for it.  
The customers havent  suffered a financial loss as they wouldve paid more  for a 
level term assurance policy.   
The consumers disagreed with the businesss submissions and made the following key 
points:
Ref: DRN89381602They werent experienced  home  buyers.  Mr S was a first time buyer and Mrs M had 
purchased a property  20 years earlier. The 2003 home was their first purchase 
together. 
They were told that in order to get the mortgage they had to get the cover.  The 11 
page terms and conditions did nothing to undermine  their reliance  on what they were  
told by the adviser. 
The ombudsmans decision doesnt  rely on the consumers  being told it was a 
condition, which is why its complaint in relation to the level term assurance  wasnt 
upheld. 
The inference that they cancelled the direct  debit payments in 2006 because  they 
knew from the outset  the cover  wasnt needed  is unfounded. After they cancelled  the 
direct debit  payments  they were contacted by the adviser and told they had to 
reinstate the policy. 
Whatever the advisers motivation, they were persuaded  that the mortgage would be 
compromised and felt they had no choice but to reinstate the direct debit payments. 
Its not true that they decided to keep the decreasing term policy  over the level term 
assurance policy when  presented  with other  options and monthly costs.  They  
cancelled the policy to reduce costs and the options suggested  by the adviser 
wouldve made them worse off. 
The ombudsman was right to say that the business sold something that fell short of 
what it was meant  to do.
The business seems  to suggest the decreasing term assurance policy was their idea 
which is wrong. And certainly  inaccurate to conclude  this from a change  in the level 
of cover in 2003. 
In terms of the redress they were paying  for cover they didnt  seek, want, or could 
afford and it wasnt even suitable  mortgage  protection. So they agree with the 
ombudsmans proposed redress. 
As they havent  had a pay-out they dont need  to pay the insurer anything.  Asking the 
business to repay the premiums the consumers have paid will leave it in the position 
it shouldve been in but for the error  it made. By not awarding  a full refund  would  
mean the business is profiting from its mis-sale. 
They hope the ombudsman will not change the provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered  the case, including all responses to my provisional decision,  my 
conclusion on balance  remains as set out previously,  for principally  the same  reasons. 
The key points that I consider relevant to this decision  have been  covered. But in light of the 
additional points  made by the business I would  say the following:
I dont think theres anything wrong with taking a holistic  approach, circumstances permitting, 
but in this case it doesnt change my decision.  I still dont  think  a decreasing term assurance 
policy in respect of an interest only mortgage is suitable, notwithstanding  the level term 
assurance policy the consumers had.    
 
The application referred to by the business is only one part of the evidence I considered and 
wasnt the focus of my decision. I acknowledge the theory put forward  by the business, but 
Ref: DRN89381603other than what it says Ive seen  no other  evidence that it might have been  a possible 
oversight by the adviser, or that the second application had to be put on the form entitled  
family protection. I appreciate the business says subsequent correspondence suggests the 
policies were for mortgage  protection but Im unable to safely  conclude this was the case. In 
any case, Ive taken into account  all of the available evidence and my conclusion remains 
the same. 
For clarity,  Im not considering the position  the business would be in if it hadnt made the 
error. My consideration is to return the consumers to the position they would  be in but for the 
business error, or as close  to it as possible.  I cant say that they wouldve opted for cover. 
Thats why I think the business should  refund  the premiums paid for the decreasing  term 
assurance policy, with interest. 
Whilst the consumers  may have  had the benefit  of the £240,000 level term assurance  
policy, in respect of the buy-to-let mortgage, they were running the risk of being considerably 
out of pocket in respect of the £340,000  mortgage  covered only by a decreasing term 
assurance. So, overall I think the proposed redress, taking a holistic  approach,  addresses  
this imbalance, and offsets the risk that the business  was also on. 
I appreciate the point  the business makes,  but in this instance  on balance I dont think  it 
would be fair to deduct anything from the refund. 
Ive already explained that I dont think a change in the level of cover in this case  suggests 
that the consumers  knew  what they wanted,  or that they elected to maintain cover they didnt 
need. It may be that Mr S didnt know what he was doing but this wasnt the deciding factor 
in my decision. 
Im mindful the consumers were given the option  to re-write  the decreasing term assurance 
policy  if the business  got it wrong   and whilst  they wouldnt  have  to pay any back dated  
premiums they would have to pay a much higher premium moving forward,  but the 
consumers disagreed. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, in this instance I cant  blame the consumers for 
refusing to do so. They were sold a product which simply didnt do what it was meant to, and 
they remained on risk and liable to pay back a large  mortgage, despite paying for cover  
which was of very limited  help.  
Finally despite what  the business says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  Im 
satisfied that the consumers  only reinstated  the direct debit payments based  on what they 
were told by the adviser. On balance I think its unlikely to be any other reason given that 
theyd taken the step to cancel the payments  in the first place. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint. 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should in respect  of the decreasing term 
assurance policy:
Refund the premiums  paid, with 8% simple interest from the date of payment of each 
premium, to the date of settlement.   
Ref: DRN89381604Pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  as a result  of 
providing incorrect information regarding which business was responsible  for the sale 
of the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89381605COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr S and Mrs M (the consumers) complain they were mis-sold a decreasing  term assurance policy by 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (the business). They say theyve paid for life cover they 
didnt need.  
Theyre also unhappy about the service theyve received from the business.   
background
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  the policies were  mis-sold. In 
summary, he said:
Kingswood  Law Partnership  (KLP) Ltd  acting as an agent  of the business   had made the 
recommendations, so the business was ultimately  responsible for the sale of the policies.  
In recognition of the incorrect information  that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the 
policies  the business  offered £150 compensation for the trouble  and upset  caused, which is 
fair and reasonable.  
If the consumers werent told that the adviser was a tied adviser  in other words that he 
could only advise on the business products  this could  mean the cover was mis-sold. 
However, he was unable to determine whether or not the consumers were told the adviser 
was a tied agent, and therefore was unable to conclude if the business had made a mistake in 
this instance.  
The consumers  maintain it was recorded  on the 2003 mortgage application form  that they 
didnt want cover  because they answered no to the question of whether they required  
mortgage  protection  insurance.  But the question was ambiguous,  because it wasnt referring 
to life cover. Unhelpfully it also didnt mention the specific  type of cover it was referring to, so 
he could appreciate why the consumers  thought  the question was about life cover.  
Despite what the consumers say, he wasnt satisfied that this was evidence  that they only 
took two term assurance policies  because they were told they had to. 
In terms of suitability, the advice was suitable. The consumers had two policies with two 
purposes. 
The policies  were set up to pay out in the event of a valid claim during the term of the policy. 
Although the consumers  say they were told they had to take out the policy covering the 
mortgage, hed seen no other evidence  that this was the case, so was unable to conclude that 
they were told they had to apply for and maintain the policy.  
The mortgage offer letters makes clear  that only buildings insurance  was a condition of the 
loan  as shown in the mortgage offer letter  in 2005. 
Point three of the correspondence dated 24 August 2018  that the consumers refer to  
should be looked  at in conjunction with point two of the email.  The business  accepts that the 
recommendations werent the most suitable. But given  the consumers  circumstances the 
recommendations were nevertheless suitable. 
Whilst it wouldve  been  an option to have a single  policy covering the combined  mortgage 
balance he doesnt  agree this was suitable. It wouldve  been cheaper but as there were two 
separate mortgages, it was reasonable  to have separate policies covering them.
Its not entirely clear  why a decreasing term assurance  policy was recommended. Affordability 
was identified as an issue, and its possible this was the reason.  Nevertheless  it was still 
appropriate to recommend life cover. 
To clarify  the consumers  werent  over insured,  they were underinsured.  But this didnt of itself 
mean the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Whilst the adviser would have been in receipt of commission hes unable to say that this was 
the advisers sole motivation. If it was, then its likely hed have  recommended  two level term 
assurance policies and required the consumers  to increase their level of cover in 2005.  The 
Ref: DRN89381606consumers have  declined the business  offer to re write the policies as level term assurance 
policies from 2003 and 2005.  
In 2006 the consumers cancelled the direct debit payments but the investigator cant  say that 
they reinstated the payments because they were  told they had to. The consumers had a 
choice about whether or not to reinstate  their direct debit payments.  A call note suggests  that 
the consumers were  enquiring if they could reinstate  their direct debit  payments after they (or 
the bank cancelled) by mistake. 
Its likely  there  was discussion about increasing the sum assured and thats why the 
consumers were  told their premiums were likely to increase by 70%. 
The consumers disagreed with the investigators view. They maintain the recommendations were 
unsuitable and the investigator has given  more weight to whats been said by the business than their 
recollection of events. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and subject to any further submissions, Im provisionally  minded to uphold  this 
complaint. On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im not persuaded that the recommendation  
to take out a decreasing term assurance policy in respect of an interest only mortgage is suitable. 
In 2003, the consumers took out an interest only mortgage.  It seems they had no cover in place at the 
time to cover  this balance. The policy  matched  the term of 15 years. But it only provided £240,000 of 
initial life cover. The amount  of cover wasnt  the same as the actual mortgage amount which was 
much higher. And the provided benefit would  decrease during  the policy  term.  Its not clear  how this 
has come  about. But it seems there must  have been a change since the application for cover  was 
made.   
But the main question is whether or not the recommendation was suitable in the circumstances, given 
the consumers were  sold a decreasing term assurance policy. 
In this instance,  the level of cover would  go down. But the mortgage amount would  remain the same. 
In the event  of a valid claim  the consumers would be left with having to pay the outstanding  (and 
much higher) mortgage  amount. In my opinion  this defeats the purpose of the term assurance 
protection. Im mindful that they would  have  been  liable to this risk through the life of their mortgage. 
A level term assurance policy, in respect of an interest only mortgage (that matched the term and 
amount of the outstanding mortgage) would  be suitable, because the level of cover stays the same as 
the outstanding mortgage for the duration of the repayment period.
I dont accept the business  argument that just because there was a more suitable  option this doesnt 
mean its recommendation was unsuitable. The point is that level term assurance policy in respect of 
an interest only mortgage is suitable and a decreasing term assurance policy, unless theres a good 
reason  which Ive seen  no evidence of  isnt.  
Im aware that costs were possibly  an issue. According to the business a decreasing term assurance 
policy appears to have  been  a compromise  to have some cover in place  rather than having no cover 
at all. But I dont think that analogy applies  in this case and its no justification for selling something 
thats unsuitable.  
If costs were an issue, as suggested, having taken out a level term assurance policy in the sum of 
£240,000 for family  protection,  and separate cover wasnt a condition  of their mortgage,  I dont think 
Ref: DRN89381607there was any need to sell them something that fell considerably  short of the cover it was meant to 
provide. 
I appreciate what the consumers say about being told that cover was a condition of their mortgage, 
its possible that they were,  but regardless of this, the decreasing term assurance policy was 
unsuitable anyway. 
I know they had an existing mortgage at the time that they were  changing to a buy-to-let mortgage, 
which they didnt take any cover for. In my opinion  this was an existing mortgage,  and a different type 
of mortgage to their residential  mortgage,  which  is likely to have different conditions.  
I note the business said life cover wasnt a condition and the mortgage offer letter  made this clear  that 
only buildings insurance was the only insurance necessary. In this instance, I note the 2005 mortgage  
offer letter made this clear.  But I think its more  likely than not the consumers  simply relied  on the 
advice they were  given rather than the documentation provided. 
Im mindful in 2005, when the consumers increased  their mortgage term and amount, the cover 
remained the same, and no additional cover was advised. I think  this rang alarm  bells for the 
consumers and thats  why they cancelled  the direct debit payments in 2006. 
But having cancelled the direct  debit, they reinstated it. They say this was because they were  told 
they had to continue  to maintain the policy. Whilst Im unable to say what  they were told, I cant see 
that having  taken the step to cancel  the direct debit, they would reinstate these, without being  advised  
to do so. And certainly not for a 2003 policy  that neither matched the mortgage amount, term or type.  
Im conscious  they had a choice, and their bank wouldnt  have been able to collect the payments 
without their authority.   But I think its more likely than not, theyd have relied on what they were  
advised. Im not satisfied that the payments were cancelled by mistake and they reinstated these  of 
their own accord.  
I appreciate what the consumers say about the advisers  motivation, but I dont need to decide  
whether the adviser was motivated by commission in order to make my decision.    
I note that the consumers were given the option  to re-write the decreasing term assurance policy  if 
the business got it wrong   and whilst  they wouldnt  have to pay any back  dated  premiums they would  
have to pay a much  higher premium moving forward, but the consumers disagreed. In this instance I 
cant blame the consumers for refusing to do so. They were sold a product which simply didnt do 
what it was meant  to, and they remained on risk and liable to pay back a large mortgage,  despite 
paying for cover which  was of very limited  help. 
In the circumstances,  in respect of the decreasing term assurance  policy, I think  the business should 
refund the premiums paid, with 8% simple interest from the date of payment of each premium, to the 
date of settlement.   
The business  should also pay £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience  caused as a 
result of providing incorrect information regarding which business was responsible for the sale of the 
policy. I think  this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold 
this complaint.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  should pay redress as set out above. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8938160