K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he thinks Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) owes  him a refund of the excess  
commission, over 50%, related to the premiums for a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with his credit card.
background
Mr T took out a credit card in June  2004  and at the same time took out a PPI policy. In 2012 
Mr T complained the credit card had been  mis-sold. BoS assessed  his complaint and didnt 
agree it was mis-sold. He brought his complaint at that time to this service and we agreed  
the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
In September  2017 Mr T contacted BoS again and raised a complaint about any excess  
commission he may have  paid as part of the PPI premiums charged to his account. In 
November 2017  BoS wrote  to Mr T and said no commission refund  was due as the 
undisclosed commission and profit  share was less than 50% at the time of sale.  
BoS also said in that letter that no compensation would  be due in any event as Mr T had 
never paid any PPI premiums on his credit card.
Mr T wasnt happy with the answer BoS gave  to him and brought his complaint to this 
service. He also said he didnt receive a response  from BoS about his commission  complaint 
for over six months, as he didnt get its letter  until June 2018. Mr T also raised a number of 
issues hed had with BoS throughout his financial dealings with the business  over a number 
of years.
Our adjudicator said BoS had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt owe Mr T any 
compensation. 
Mr T was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2013 this service  considered Mr Ts complaint that his PPI was mis-sold and we said we 
didnt think it was. So we cant look again at the mis-sale issues. 
But as the PPI wasnt mis-sold then it is possible that if the commission and profit share 
charged as part of any PPI premiums  was over 50%, and this wasnt  disclosed to Mr T when 
he took out the policy, then he would be entitled  to get back  the amounts of commission paid 
over the 50%. This is in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requirements put in 
place following a Supreme Court  judgement.
BoS has checked the commission rate at the time Mr T took out the PPI in June 2004 and at 
that time the rate wasnt over 50%.  Therefore  Mr T wouldnt be entitled to get any 
commission and profit share back.
However Mr T never  actually  paid any PPI premiums for the policy  on this credit  card ending 
0743. The PP was taken out at the same  time as the card in June  2004.  This is shown on 
Ref: DRN87989812the credit  card application. The records  also show the PPI was cancelled in September 
2006. 
BoS has provided copies of the credit card statements for the account from June 2004  to 
2009 and I can see that Mr T never spent anything on the card.  The only charge ever made  
to the card was in July 2004 for £15.00 and this was refunded within  a few days, and it 
wasnt for PPI and incurred no PPI charge  or any other charge or interest.
So based  on everything I have seen I dont  think Mr T ever bought anything on this credit  
card and never paid anything for the PPI, even though it was attached to his card account. 
So in any event,  even  if the commission had been  more than 50% he wouldnt be due any 
commission back as none was ever paid.
I have also looked  at Mr Ts issues about the time it took for BoS to send a response  to his 
complaint. It seems he didnt receive  the letter  BoS sent dated  November  2017.  He chased a 
response to his compensation complaint by telephone on 8 June 2018  and a copy  of the 
letter sent in November 2017 was sent out to him on 11 June. 
Why Mr T didnt receive the letter in November 2017 is unclear, the address on the letter is 
the correct address. But I dont think BoS can be held responsible  for any unnecessary delay 
as once it knew Mr T hadnt received the letter it sent it out again  within  3 days.
From the complaint  Mr T has made  it seems  he has many issues  with BoS over many years, 
but I can only consider  the specific points about his complaint regarding any excess 
commission. And as I have explained,  the commission rate was less than 50% and Ive seen 
nothing to show Mr T paid any PPI premiums. So I dont think  BoS owes  him anything.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I dont  think Bank  of Scotland plc owes Mr T any excess  
commission and profit share so Im not telling it to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8798981