K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland  Plc BOS mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by completing a paper application.
BOS hasnt been able to provide a policy  document from the time of sale  as this policy was 
sold so long ago, I dont think its unreasonable that all the documents  are no longer  
available. But I have  looked at the nearest  available  policy document  and Im satisfied that 
it is likely  to be the same as, or similar to, the terms that wouldve applied  to Mrs P.
At the time,  Mrs P was employed as a checkout  operator. She has told us she was entitled 
to less than three months sick pay, redundancy pay and death in service provided by her 
employer. Mrs P has said had a medical  condition and, separately had a medical procedure  
carried out before the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ps credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  Mrs Ps credit card statements show it cost 69p per £100  
of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would continue  to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit  card account  closed in 2002.
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ps representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs P and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN87356252The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN87356253I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ps case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and BOS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN87356254Mrs P says she applied for the credit card and PPI by completing  a leaflet. BOS has 
provided a copy of this document  titled Application form. In it, there  was a section for 
customers to select  other  products and provide additional instructions to BOS  by ticking the 
relevant boxes. For example, customers could select whether they wanted a VISA card or a 
Mastercard. PPI is also listed here for customers to select  if they wanted it. There  was 
nothing in this section suggesting that taking PPI was compulsory, so Mrs P couldve left it 
blank if she didnt want it. Mrs P has left other boxes blank in accordance with her wishes.  
I can see the box requesting cover  has been ticked and Mrs P has then signed the form to 
confirm the selections made. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says it didnt provide  advice during this sale. Mrs P hasnt said whether BOS gave 
advice or not. Looking  at what happened  when BOS  sold Mrs P the PPI, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.  I say this because I cant see that an advisor was present when Mrs 
P completed  the form (like you would expect if shed applied  in branch). I also havent  seen 
anything to suggest that BOS conducted any kind of suitability assessment or that it provided 
any form of tailored recommendation. 
This means  BOS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs P. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs P to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
BOS has provided us with Mrs Ps application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says she wouldve received,  including the 
nearest available policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities   
applied to policies  like Mrs Ps. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs P at the time,  I dont think BOS gave Mrs P the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
BOS says this sale took place by post.  The application form didnt give Mrs P any 
information about the PPI but it referred her to a policy about it. I think  its unlikely Mrs P 
would have agreed to take it out without  at least having a broad understanding of the cover it 
provided  i.e. accident, sickness  and unemployment cover. And I think  its unlikely Mrs P 
would have thought it was free.
But it was BOSs responsibility to draw  to Mrs Ps attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Ref: DRN87356255Im not persuaded BOS did enough to do this. For example,  I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs P, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BOS  adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think BOS  gave  Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mrs P? To what extent  did Mrs P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs P. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs P suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs P would have still 
taken out the policy,  had BOS done  things properly.  
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs P had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN87356256As Ive found above, Mrs P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs P thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs P ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form. But, I accept that BOS didnt make  clear the on-
going cost information. So while Mrs P didnt  know some  things,  the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms of those 
conditions, whether diagnosed or not, that Mrs P had received treatment, advice or 
investigations about in the 12 months  prior to the start date, and which  recurs within 
12 months of the start sate. It also excluded claims relating to chronic  diseases  that 
Mrs P knew  about  which recurs within 12 months of the start date. 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be prevented 
from doing her own job or any other work which  her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified her to do. 
 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality.
Although Mrs P says she had a medical  condition when  the PPI was taken out and the policy 
might not have provided cover for the first 12 months had she needed time off work because  
of this condition,  I dont think better information  about this exclusion would have put her off 
agreeing to it. I say this because she appears to have suffered from this condition  over 10 
years before the sale and doesnt appear to have had any ongoing  problems with it. She 
also had a procedure  separately shortly before  the sale, but this was treated with painkillers. 
She hasnt  told us she needed any significant  time off work because  of it and again, it 
doesnt appear she had any ongoing problems with it. So given that: it doesnt appear her 
condition or the procedure  she had would likely be the main  reasons she would need  to 
claim on the policy; and because Mrs P had limited means (including her sick pay) of making 
Ref: DRN87356257her card payments if she wasnt working,  in these  particular  circumstances I dont  think  more 
information about the exclusion  clause  wouldve  prevented her from taking out the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs P, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her job 
but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would do. And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  given Mrs Ps circumstances and the limited other 
means she had to make her repayments  if she wasnt working, on balance, I still think she 
would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs P would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she had limited means of meeting  her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, she thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN87356258proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mrs P compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mrs P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs P and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8735625