K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited have handled his legal expenses insurance 
claim unfairly. 
Aviva uses  intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer in this decision should  be taken  as including  the intermediaries  acts or 
omissions.
background
I issued my second provisional decision  on this complaint in June  2019,  which  forms part of 
this final decision.  In summary,  I said I was minded to uphold Mr Es complaint and direct  
Aviva to pay his claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions from the date 
positive prospects were  reported on his case.
Firm C, on behalf of Mr E, accepted the proposals set out in my decision.  However,  they 
clarified that under the court guideline  hourly  rates they are deemed to be a London grade 3 
practice rather than a national grade 3 practice, meaning their hourly  rates would range from 
£121 to £267 per hour. Ive noted  this, but the scope of my decision does not extend to 
making any finding on the applicable hourly  rate. As I set out in my provisional  decision,  it is 
for Firm C and Aviva to use their best endeavours to agree on what  the applicable rate ought  
to be in these  circumstances and, if they cannot reach such an agreement,  then the matter 
will need  to be referred back to this service  for a further  decision.  
Aviva did not provide  any further evidence for consideration, but expressed their concerns 
that some  of their policy terms  and conditions were being made redundant, such  that 
solicitors would be able to disregard them in the future.  Ive taken Avivas comments into 
consideration, but I ought to make  clear that the conclusions reached in this decision are 
very much in relation to the individual circumstances of this case. And as Ive set out 
previously, I acknowledge that Firm C did not comply with some of the policy  terms and 
conditions. But it has long been  the approach of this service to consider how any non-
compliance with a policy term has actually prejudiced an insurers position. Indeed,  this is a 
general principle of good insurance practice  incorporated into the Insurance Act 2015.  And 
for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable, in these  particular circumstances, for Aviva  to avoid liability under the policy 
when ultimately there position hasnt been  demonstrably prejudiced as a result  of any 
breach. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  arguments have been made other than those responded to above   and given 
that neither of the parties  has submitted any further  evidence for consideration  I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my previous provisional decision.
However, I do want to expand upon some  of the initial reasoning  set out my previous 
provisional decision where I said that I considered  Avivas proposed rate of £100 per hour 
would likely  render Mr Es freedom  to choose  his own solicitor  meaningless.  I said this 
because. Mr E had chosen  Firm C to represent  him in proceedings (which, given the 
Ref: DRN82793482circumstances of his case, I didnt think  was inappropriate or unnecessary)  and that Avivas  
proposed rate would  not even cover the lowest  fee earner of his chosen firm. But in addition  
to this, I cannot see that Mr E was ever provided with any other choice  of panel solicitor that 
couldve acted on his behalf at Avivas proposed rate of £100  per hour. I appreciate  that the 
most likely reason for there  not being  any discussion regarding alternative  solicitors was as a 
result of the delays and eventual dispute that arose  between Firm C and Aviva. But given 
that there  was no such discussion around alternative solicitors,  this is another reason  why I 
believe it was reasonable for Firm C to take the dispute forwards, and which  is also why I 
dont think it would be fair for Aviva to insist  on paying their rate of £100  an hour in these 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr Es claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions and cover all 
reasonable and necessary legal fees in relation to the trespass dispute from the date 
positive prospects were  reported.  
Pay 8% simple interest per year on those costs from the date they became payable 
to the date of indemnity.
Pay £150 compensation.
Pay Firm Cs reasonable copying  and postage  charges in relation to the invoice sent 
by Firm C on 28 March 2018.  
Aviva ought  only to cover the initial costs to the extent it wouldve cost them  if theyd been  
managing the claim from the outset, and then at the applicable rate according to the court 
guidelines from the point the insurer agreed to appoint Firm C in principle on 18 March  2017. 
Firm C and Aviva should use their best endeavours to agree on what that applicable  rate 
ought to be  and may refer the matter back to the ombudsman service if theyre unable  to 
agree. 
Interest may be paid less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82793483COPY  OF SECOND  PROVISIONAL  DECISION  12 JUNE 2019
complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  have  handled his legal expenses insurance claim 
unfairly. 
Aviva uses intermediaries to administer their legal  expenses insurance, so any reference to the 
insurer in this decision should be taken  as including the intermediaries  acts or omissions.
background 
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint in March 2019, which  sets out the background 
to Mr Es dispute and is attached to this decision. In my first provisional decision, I was minded to 
uphold Mr Es complaint in part and made the following findings:
The requirements of cover for a claim  in trespass under Mr Es policy were seemingly  met, so 
I didnt think it was fair for the insurer  to refuse cover for costs incurred from January  2017 
onwards just because legal Firm C did not return the relevant paperwork.  So I intended  
asking Aviva  to cover  Mr Es reasonable  costs in relation to the claim  in trespass from the 
point counsel opined there were  positive  prospects, plus 8% simple interest per year on those 
costs from the date they became payable  to the date of indemnity; 
In terms of the rate at which such costs ought to be covered, I said that Aviva wouldnt have 
necessarily incurred the same level of costs as Firm C, so I only intended asking them  to 
cover expenses to the extent  it wouldve  cost the insurer if theyd been managing the claim 
from the outset,  up until the point they agreed to appoint Firm C in principle on 18 March  
2017;
From the point Aviva agreed to appoint Firm C in principle,  I intended  to ask them to cover 
costs incurred at their non-panel rate;
But given that Firm C elected not to include the claim for mesne  profits in the original 
particulars of claim, I said that Aviva ought only cover such  costs in relation  to the trespass 
claim up until vacant possession was secured (which appeared to be from 28 June  2017)  as 
I thought it likely  that Aviva and/or their solicitors wouldve  included both claims  to have been 
considered by the court  together  if theyd managed the claim from the outset.  So I didnt think 
it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover further costs in relation to a separate claim or further 
court action toward securing a judgment for mesne profits.
I agreed that Avivas  service had been poor given their lack of response to Firm Cs 
correspondence from June 2017 onwards,  but I felt their offer to pay a contribution  towards  
costs incurred between 28 June 2017 and 2 December  2017  plus £150 compensation  
was fair in the circumstances.
I also said that Aviva should cover Firm Cs reasonable copying and postage charges given  
that this was what theyd agreed to in their initial  correspondence with the solicitors.
developments 
Aviva disagreed with the proposals  set out in my previous decision and said in response:
Firm C failed to adhere to reasonable timescales and provide the insurer  with signed terms of 
appointment, and their (Avivas) correspondence clearly  set out that cover would  not 
commence until such time that the terms were signed and returned.  Costs were  also incurred 
prior to written acceptance  of the claim,  which  is excluded  under the policy terms and 
conditions;
Paying an additional 8% simple interest is unfair, seeing as Firm C did not adhere to the 
requirements of the policy;
Aviva should not have  to pay for copying and postage charges as this is not covered by the 
policy;
Ref: DRN82793484They  should not have  to pay costs at the non-panel  rate because  if Firm C had returned their 
terms of appointment, they wouldve agreed to funding at a rate of £100 per hour. And while 
there may have  been  scope for negotiation, the standard rate was not challenged  by the 
solicitors, so the requirement to pay costs at the non-panel rate is unreasonable. 
Firm C also responded with further submissions and points of clarification:
Whilst the original claim form and particulars of claim  did not make provision  for mesne  profits  
to be pursued, the judge still made  an order in the hearing of 22 March  2017 in relation to the 
question of mesne  profits. The matter was subsequently listed for a further hearing on 28 July 
2017, and Firm C later made an application  (in line with the judges earlier  consideration of 
mesne profits) to coincide with the July 2017 hearing  so as to advance the claim for mesne  
profits and incorporate it within the original trespass claim;
As a result, the judge made an order on 28 July 2017 for delivery of the property at the same 
time as an award  for mesne profits to be paid  rather than any distinct  action having to be 
pursued for the damages. So the only additional cost incurred would  be in relation to the £255  
court fee paid at the time and the time spent drafting the separate  application  as counsels 
attendance was already  required for the main possession hearing;
An award of £16,426.91 in costs was also made at the July 2017 hearing;
The enforcement action for which  permission was being sought  was not only in relation to the 
mesne profits and interest, but also in relation  to the costs order made  at the possession 
hearing on 28 July 2017;
Firm C were required to attend further hearings  on 5 March 2018 and 4 June 2018  to continue 
to preserve Avivas  position on costs,  so they submit that the insurer should  also cover these 
costs.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In light of the further submissions made by both parties, I now intend 
to uphold Mr Es complaint  and alter the proposals set out in my first provisional  decision, and Ill 
explain why.
Aviva submit that Firm C did not comply  with the policy terms  and conditions, as they failed to adhere 
to reasonable timescales and return their signed terms, and because they also incurred costs prior to 
Avivas written acceptance  of the claim.  Aviva say its unfair that theyre  being  asked to cover  Firm Cs 
costs from 19 January 2017 just because they could have been covered  if theyd responded to the 
relevant terms of appointment. 
As I set out in my previous  decision,  I appreciate  that Firm C incurred costs prior to Avivas written 
acceptance of the claim. But I said that this was the sort of groundwork the insurer wouldve carried 
out in any event.  So although Firm C may not have always acted strictly  in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions,  I do not consider that this has prejudiced Avivas  position in any way. So I dont 
think it would be fair to deny Mr E cover that he was seemingly entitled to under  the policy  by virtue of 
a technicality which has seemingly made no difference to the insurers  position. Indeed, this principle 
of good insurance practice is expressly  addressed in the Insurance Act 2015.  
The only prejudice that can reasonably be perceived  as a result of any breach of the abovementioned 
policy terms was the rate in which costs had been incurred prior to the insurer agreeing to appoint 
Firm C in principle. But I also addressed this point in my previous decision  when I said that I only 
intended asking Aviva to cover Mr Es costs from 19 January 2017  to the extent it wouldve cost the 
insurer if theyd been managing the process from the outset  and I still consider this to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances. I appreciate that Firm C also caused some delay when 
they took a while to send over their case  file, etc. But again, I cannot see that this has ultimately  
prejudiced Avivas position,  as Firm C continued to progress the claim throughout  this time and carry 
out the necessary  action  required in any event. 
Ref: DRN82793485Is cover available  under the policy?
In my first provisional decision, I noted that Firm C had not included  the claim  for mesne  profits  in their 
original particulars of claim, which appeared to result in further legal action being  taken after vacant 
possession was secured. And as a result,  I only intended asking Aviva to cover Mr Es legal expenses 
to the extent  of securing  vacant possession of the property, as I thought  it likely  that the insurer 
wouldve included a claim for mesne profits from the outset. 
However, Firm C have  since  clarified  that both the trespass and mesne profits  claims  were in fact 
heard together  because,  despite the original particulars  of claim not making provision for mesne 
profits to be pursued, the judge still made an order in the hearing of 22 March  2017 in relation to 
mesne profits. And given that only ten minutes had been granted for this initial hearing  by the court, 
the matter was subsequently listed for a further hearing  on 28 July 2017. Firm C then took this 
opportunity to make  an application to the court  to amend  proceedings so as to utilise  the later hearing 
to seek  damages from the defendants as well as possession of the property and costs.
So no separate  legal  action was in fact required in relation to the claim for damages,  as Firm C and 
counsel were  always required to attend the hearing  of 28 July 2017 in respect of the original trespass 
claim. And it was in that hearing that the judge then ordered  the defendant to give Mr E possession of 
the property,  as well as an award of damages, plus costs of around £16,000. 
Further to the reasoning  in my previous decision, Ive reconsidered the policy  terms and conditions in 
light of this to determine whether the entire legal dispute ought now to be covered  under  the policy. 
Section 1A of the policy  states:
We will represent an insured person in any Legal Proceedings for civil action relating to physical  
damage to the premisesfollowing..
(3) any nuisance or trespass including the eviction of squatters or any person  occupying the Premises  
owned by you. 
Ive already outlined previously how I consider the eviction of trespassers from Mr Es property and 
subsequent claims for possession to be covered under this section of the policy. And given that the 
claim for mesne  profits was heard as part of the possession hearing and did not constitute any 
separate legal action,  I now consider that this should also be covered under the same section.  As I 
said in my previous decision, mesne profits can merely be a form of compensatory  or restitutionary 
damages if liability is established against the trespasser/tortfeasor  which  in these  circumstances it 
was. So it doesnt have to constitute a discrete cause of action for wrongful occupation that would  
need to be covered by a discrete  section of the policy  as it should be considered as part of the 
action in trespass.  
So I no longer intend to separate the trespass and damages elements of this claim  now it has 
become apparent that they were heard together.  As a result, I now intend asking Aviva  to pay the 
whole claim   in line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions  and cover all elements of Mr Es 
trespass dispute from the date positive prospects  were reported. Aviva  should pay all of Mr Es 
reasonable and necessary  legal costs unless they can demonstrate that any costs incurred  were 
unreasonable or unnecessary (for example, those that would  be considered the subject of a wasted 
costs order). If Aviva  do object to any costs incurred pursuant to Mr Es trespass dispute,  they must  
specify why and provide  evidence.  This consideration should include the costs incurred towards 
securing the judgment  for possession, damages and costs, as well as the subsequent  costs incurred 
towards preserving  that judgment and costs order thereafter. Otherwise, I will be directing  Aviva to 
pay the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions.  
As a qualifying point, however, I still think that Firm C ought to bear the costs of amending the 
proceedings to include mesne profits (which would appear to consist  of the £255  court fee plus the 
time spent drafting the separate application) due to them not having  included this in the original 
Ref: DRN82793486particulars of claim, as I still think its likely the insurer wouldve done this irrespective of the 
defendants impecuniosity. 
applicable rates 
Aviva argue that the most they should have to pay towards  Mr Es costs is £100 per hour, as this is 
the rate Firm C wouldve  agreed  to if theyd returned the terms of appointment. They also say that 
Firm C did not object to this rate, so they shouldnt now have to pay a higher non-panel rate.
The terms  of appointment were not sent to Firm C until 18 March  2017 when  Aviva agreed to appoint  
the solicitors in principle.  But Firm C were  unable to open the attachment containing the terms of 
appointment. They  responded  to Aviva on 28 June 2017 to advise them of this, as well as asking the 
insurer to consider reimbursement of [Mr Es] legal  costs  incurred and inviting  Aviva to meet our fees 
in relation to the work carried  out up to the point of possession being  secured .  So although  Firm C 
didnt directly object to Avivas standard rate of £100 per hour at this point, they did ask that their fees 
be met. They also wrote  to Aviva around a month later on 2 August 2017 asking for the court allowed  
rate rather than the significantly reduced rate of £100 per hour. So I do not accept  Avivas argument 
that Firm C failed to ever object to the insurers  standard rate. But Ive considered whether it would be 
fair and reasonable for the insurers standard rate to apply in any event.
The standard  terms of appointment that were sent to Firm C set out that if the solicitors are unable to 
recover their costs and expenses from the other side then at our discretion we will consider paying 
your costs at an hourly rate of £100 plus VAT and expenses if we think  that is in the customers best 
interests. 
Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies  (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations  1990 provides a 
policyholder with the freedom to choose their own solicitor from the point  they need  to commence  
legal proceedings. So Aviva had to ensure  that they didnt  frustrate Mr Es choice of solicitor by 
imposing terms  that are too restrictive. But they are entitled to ensure  that the costs being incurred 
are reasonable.  And when an insurer  is looking to limit the indemnity recoverable  under the policy, 
theyre obliged to ensure  this is made clear. 
So although the rate may be set out in the insurers  standard  terms of appointment, there is no 
corresponding term or restriction of cover mentioned  anywhere in the policy document  itself. So I 
dont think its likely  Mr E wouldve been aware  of the indemnity limit as the terms and conditions  do 
not refer to any specific amount. I therefore  do not think it would be fair for Aviva  to now rely on this 
indemnity limit. 
Ive also considered whether  the £100  limit Aviva is seeking to impose  would restrict Mr Es freedom 
to choose his own solicitor.  Our approach  to such issues  follows the Court of Appeals decision in 
Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management  Ltd & Anor [2012]  EWCA Civ 1633,  where the 
court held that a legal  expenses insurer has the right to restrict  what  they would pay to a non-panel 
solicitor, provided the remuneration is not so low as to render the policyholders freedom  of choice  
meaningless.
Mr E chose to appoint Firm C which, according  to the court guideline hourly rates,  appears to be a 
national grade 1 firm. It isnt clear what pay band of fee earner was assigned  to Mr Es dispute, but 
the guideline hourly  rates for this sort of firm range from £118 for a trainee or paralegal to £217 an 
hour for the most experienced  solicitor.  And Avivas proposed rate of £100  an hour wouldnt even 
cover the lowest fee earner (such as a paralegal) of a national grade 3 firm.
I havent seen any evidence to persuade  me that Mr Es choice of firm was inappropriate or 
unnecessary in the circumstances of his legal  dispute. And given the unusual  circumstances of Mr Es 
dispute, it would appear likely that his case would require  someone more  experienced than a trainee 
or paralegal  to oversee it. So in light of the court guidelines, I consider that Avivas proposed rate of 
£100 would likely render  Mr Es freedom of choice meaningless in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN82793487The policy terms and conditions state that Aviva will pay All reasonable  and necessary legal  or 
accounting costs charged by the appointed representative  and agreed by us. As such, I intend to ask 
Aviva to cover Mr Es reasonable and necessary legal costs  at the applicable rate according  to the 
court guidelines from the point the insurer agreed  to appoint  Firm C in principle. Firm C and Aviva 
should use their best endeavours to agree  on what that applicable rate ought  to be. But if the parties 
cannot reach  an agreement, then the matter will need to be referred  back  to this service  for a further 
decision.  
compensation
In my previous decision,  I thought  Avivas offer to pay Mr Es costs incurred in relation to the claim  for 
trespass from 28 June 2017 to 2 December 2017  plus an amount  of £150   was fair compensation  
in the circumstances.  But this was in light of Aviva paying solely towards  the trespass element of the 
claim up until vacant possession was secured. And given  that Im now intending to ask Aviva to cover 
all elements of the trespass claim, I consider this to now supersede  Avivas previous offer to cover 
these costs, as they will seemingly now be absorbed  by the direction Ive set out above.
I acknowledge that the service and delays caused  by Aviva were poor. But Ive reconsidered the 
impact this caused and, although Firm C did have  to chase Aviva a number  of times, I cant see that 
this necessarily hindered  or obstructed the solicitors progress with Mr Es legal claim, as they 
continued to take all the necessary action  pursuant to his claim irrespective of any substantive 
response from the insurer. So in the circumstances, I consider Avivas  offer of £150 to be fair 
compensation. I cant ignore  the fact that Mr E did have professional legal  advice and assistance 
throughout, which ought  reasonably to have shielded him from some of the distress or inconvenience 
that an unrepresented consumer might face. 
interest
Aviva say its unfair that theyre being  asked  to pay 8% on top of the Mr Es reasonable legal costs.  
But it has long been the approach of this service to award  8% simple interest per year on top of a 
money award or directions  where it can be said that a complainant  has been deprived of an amount 
that ought  to have  been  paid. In Mr Es case, Ive explained that I think Aviva ought  to have always 
covered his costs  from 19 January 2017 onwards  even though the signed  terms were not returned  
as this this was when he received positive  prospects and met the requirements  of cover  under the 
policy. As such, Mr E was deprived of money that he was entitled  to under the policy meaning that, in 
line with our approach, Aviva ought to compensate him for this with 8% simple interest per year on the 
amount owing.
copying and postage charges 
Aviva have also objected to paying Firm Cs reasonable  copying and postage charges  that I intended 
awarding in my previous  decision.  However, I ought to clarify that this was not in relation to all copying 
and postage  charges incurred  throughout the claim, but only in relation to the undertaking  Aviva had 
already given  in a letter  sent to Firm C on 19 January 2018, where they agreed to meet any 
reasonable copying and postage fees for the provision  of Firm Cs file. The solicitors provided the 
requested file on 28 March  2018 along with an invoice  for these charges, but this has still not been  
paid. So I also intend asking Aviva to honour this promise as part of my direction.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold  Mr Es complaint and direct Aviva Insurance  Limited 
to:
Pay Mr Es claim  in line with the remaining policy  terms  and conditions,  and cover all 
reasonable and necessary  legal fees in relation  to the trespass dispute from the date positive 
prospects were  reported.  If Aviva object to any costs incurred pursuant to Mr Es trespass 
dispute, they must specify why and provide  evidence  to substantiate  their objections.
Ref: DRN82793488Pay 8% simple interest per year on those costs from the date they became payable  to the 
date of indemnity.
Pay £150  compensation.
Pay Firm Cs reasonable  copying and postage charges  in relation to the invoice  sent by Firm 
C on 28 March 2018. 
Aviva ought only to cover  the initial costs to the extent  it wouldve  cost them if theyd been managing 
the claim from the outset, and then at the applicable rate according to the court guidelines from the 
point the insurer agreed to appoint Firm C in principle on 18 March 2017.  Firm C and Aviva should  
use their best endeavours  to agree on what  that applicable rate ought to be  and may refer the 
matter back  to the ombudsman service if unable to agree.  
Interest may be paid less any tax lawfully  deductible.
Ref: DRN82793489COPY OF FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION  26 MARCH 2019
complaint 
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  have  handled his legal expenses insurance claim 
unfairly.
Aviva uses intermediaries to administer their legal  expenses insurance, so any reference to the 
insurer in this decision should be taken  as including such intermediaries.
background
Mr E owns various  properties and holds a property owners insurance policy  with Aviva, which  
includes property owners legal protection. He made a claim through  his solicitors   whom  Ill refer to 
as Firm C  in December 2016 for legal expenses relating to a dispute whereby he required 
assistance in evicting trespassers from one of his properties.  
After trying to establish cover, Firm C raised a complaint in relation to Avivas handling  of the claim, 
which they submit was subject to significant delays due to a lack of response and co-operation from 
the insurer.  And after cover was initially agreed, a dispute later arose  after Aviva eventually decided  
that the claim should not be covered. 
A significant amount  of correspondence  was sent between the parties over several months. For the 
sake clarity  and based on the evidence available  the below appears to be the approximate  
timeline of what happened  once the claim  was submitted:
9 December 2016 Aviva notified of claim and further information requested. Mr E tells Aviva to 
contact Firm C as he was on holiday.
16 December 2016 Aviva unable  to locate copy of policy schedule,  so they ask Firm C to provide 
this along with details of the claim.
19 January 2017 Counsel for Mr E reports  that the dispute  has positive  prospects.
24 January 2017 Firm C respond to Aviva,  explaining Mr E has just returned from holiday, but 
that theyd already instructed counsel and were  now awaiting the bundle.
25 January 2017 Firm C requests Avivas address to provide  counsels bundle.
6 February 2017 Aviva provide address and advise theyre waiting on Mr Es policy details from 
the broker. 
7 February 2017 Mr Es policy details provided by the broker
22 February  2017 Aviva ask Firm C to complete  claims management report (CMR) on the 
claims prospects  of success. 
28 February  2017 Court proceedings issued by Firm C.
1 March 2017 Completed CMR and prospects assessment received by Aviva  for a claim 
under trespass.  Firm C inform Aviva that court  proceedings had already been 
issued on 28 February  2017. 
18 March 2017 Aviva agree cover for a claim against trespass , with a view of obtaining 
possession, and send terms of appointment to Firm C, advising  that cover will 
not start until the signed form is received.
28 June 2017 Firm C email Aviva advising  that they couldnt open the attachment containing 
the terms of appointment,  but state that vacant possession of Mr Es property 
had since been secured via court order. Firm C request  to change claim 
mandate to include  a claim for mesne profits, as well as all previous costs  
incurred. 
5 July 2017 Firm C chase their previous  email following no response from Aviva.
7 July 2017 Aviva send  copy  of terms of appointment to Firm C again,  but do not respond  
to request  to change the claim mandate.
12 July 2017 Firm C chase response to their email of 28 June 2017 and reiterate that 
possession has already been  obtained, rendering the previous claim mandate 
inaccurate. Firm C request a revised mandate and inform Aviva they will be 
instructing counsel to take action due to a lack of constructive  response.
Ref: DRN82793481025 July 2017 Firm C chase Aviva for a response.
30 July 2017 Aviva advise  that the claim for mesne profits  will not be covered under the 
policy. Aviva  request that Firm C sign and complete  the original  terms of 
appointment before any costs are to be considered. 
2 August 2017 Firm C say they will not sign the terms of appointment until it had been 
amended as per their request,  and confirm that the possession claim relates 
entirely to a commercial premises. They  reiterate that the claim  now concerns 
costs and mesne profits,  and theres now no need  to enforce repossession. 
Firm C claim  total legal costs of £45,516.78.
18 August 2017 Firm C chase Aviva for a response.
15 November 2017 Firm C inform they are instructing counsel to consider  a complaint against 
Aviva. 
2 December 2017 Aviva acknowledge complaint and state  that theyre prepared to consider a 
contribution towards costs  incurred  in relation to possession of the premises  
following receipt  of a time cost breakdown.
19 January 2018 Aviva issue  final response upholding the complaint, acknowledging poor 
communication and offering to cover reasonable legal costs  incurred  in 
relation to the trespass  claim from 18 August  2017  to 2 December 2017, as a 
result of the delay caused during that period. Aviva  also offer £150 
compensation for delays.  
13 February  2018 Aviva agree to backdate consideration of reasonable costs to 28 June 2017 
when the service issues and delays began.
17 February  2018 Aviva send  standard account  form (SAF)  to Firm C for completion in order  to 
consider costs.
28 March 2018 Firm C provide file of papers  relating to costs incurred between 28 June 2017 
and 2 December  2018  to Aviva for consideration,  but not the SAF. Firm C 
raise concerns that the majority of legal costs in relation  to the trespass had 
been incurred prior to 28 June 2017. So Firm C request  that costs be 
reimbursed as of 19 January  2017 when  positive prospects were received 
from counsel.
1 June 2018 Firm C chase Aviva for a response.
16 June 2018 Aviva write  to Firm C explaining that the claim  should not have been covered  
given that it relates to commercial premises,  as the policy  only provides cover 
for residential lets. So they inform the solicitors that they will not be providing 
further assistance with the legal  dispute. But due to the delays, they agree to 
continue to cover costs from 28 June 2017 to 2 December 2017. Aviva send 
SAF again  asking for it to be completed.
10 July 2018 Firm C provide SAF, and confirm costs of £2,919 plus VAT for the relevant  
period, but challenge decision to decline the commercial  aspect of the claim.
27 July 2018 Cost instructions sent to an external costs assessor.
Firm C referred  a complaint  to this service alleging:
Aviva had provided contradictory information on whether the policy provided cover in respect 
of an action against a trespasser in connection with a commercial premises;
The terms of the policy made no distinction between commercial and residential  properties  
(and if it did, this was not communicated  to Mr E at the time the policy was sold), so Aviva 
have breached their contractual obligation to provide cover, citing an exclusion that did not 
exist. 
Aviva have caused considerable distress and inconvenience in failing to communicate  fairly, 
promptly and in a consistent manner. 
As such, Firm C requested that Aviva pay all reasonable legal costs in relation to the entirety of the 
possession claim from the date of counsels  positive  advice on 19 January  2017 to the conclusion of 
the enforcement action, as well as paying reasonable  copying and postage charges. In addition,  Firm 
C submit that Aviva should pay a significant amount of compensation in recognition  of distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN827934811Aviva argued  that the claim  submitted by Firm C was for assistance in removing  a trespassing third 
party, which would be covered as there is no requirement  for a trespass claim to relate to residential 
premises only. But following the order of possession, Aviva submit  that the claim that was actually  
being pursued  was one for commercial repossession  for which there is no cover  rather  than a 
claim in trespass.  Aviva say its clear that there is no cover for commercial  repossession given that the 
relevant section of policy cover is entitled residential repossession which  is also stated in Mr Es 
policy schedule.
However, Aviva  acknowledged the errors made and the delays caused, and maintained  that their offer 
to cover litigation  costs  between the period  of delays   as well as an additional £150  was fair 
compensation. 
Aviva also argue that Firm C was never actually formally appointed, as they failed to ever sign and 
return the insurers terms of appointment,  which  they submit is a requirement that needs to be met 
before any costs will be covered. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es case, as she concluded:
The legal expenses insurance only provides cover  for residential lets, and does not cover 
commercial properties, so the claim  is not covered;
Aviva were not responsible for costs  incurred between January 2017  and June 2017 as 
they did not receive any of the case information until March 2017,  and Firm C provided  no 
response in relation  to the terms of appointment until 28 June 2017.
Aviva were not responsible for any delays prior to 28 June  2018  by which  point the 
trespass issue had already been resolved  as court proceedings had been issued prior to 
the insurers involvement;
The policy  makes it clear that any costs  incurred  prior to written acceptance of a claim will 
not be covered,  and Firm C didnt ever sign the insurers terms of appointment for the 
trespass claim, so the insurer would not be liable  to cover these costs; but
Given the poor service  and delays caused  by Aviva  from 28 June 2017 onwards, their 
offer to cover  the trespass related costs from this point  onwards  plus the £150 offered  
was fair compensation  in the circumstances.
Firm C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to uphold it in part.
The terms  and conditions of Mr Es policy set out that Aviva will provide  cover for legal  expenses 
incurred in respect  of legal proceedings  following the occurrence of a contingency provided for in the 
policy.
Mr Es case concerned the rather unusual scenario of the eviction of trespassers from his property 
rather than tenants, because rather than being deemed as squatters, the trespassers actually  
occupied the property  on the basis  of a fraudulent tenancy  agreement. So Aviva say they understood 
Mr Es claim was for assistance in removing a trespassing third party,  which would be covered under 
section 1A of the policy:
1A Property  Protection
We will represent  an insured person in any Legal Proceedings for civil action relating to 
physical damage to The Premisesfollowing
(3) any nuisance or trespass including the eviction of squatters or any person  occupying The 
Premises owned by You
Ref: DRN827934812Firm C completed  Avivas  claims management report on the basis that they were seeking to evict the 
trespassers with a view to obtaining possession of the property.  But Aviva say that in June 2018, it 
transpired that Firm C were no longer  pursuing  a claim  in trespass as theyd already obtained  an 
order for possession and were now pursuing a claim for mesne profits   i.e. the sums owed or lost 
value to the true owner for occupying land without  permission  and a money  judgment against the 
trespassers, with a view thereafter for enforcement, at which point they asked Aviva to revise  the 
claim mandate.
But In light of this  and given that an order for possession has already been obtained  Aviva said 
that cover under section 1A Property Protection ceased to be applicable, so the insurer  considered 
whether cover was still available under the policy for the legal claim relating to the repossession that 
was now being pursued. 
The policy provides cover for residential repossession claims (1B Residential Repossession).  But 
Aviva say they were unaware  up until that point that Mr Es claim actually related to commercial 
premises, so they declined to cover the claim as there  was no such  cover available  under  the policy  
for commercial repossession claims. 
However, the claim initially brought  concerned the eviction of trespassers, for which I do consider that 
cover was available under section 1A of the policy, as this section makes no distinction  between  
commercial and residential lets. So I dont think its fair for Aviva to say that the entire claim was one 
for commercial repossession all along, meaning  that no cover  is available for any element of the 
dispute, as there was clearly an action in trespass to be pursued, which  was successful before the 
court. And I believe  that mesne profits can merely be a form of compensatory or restitutionary 
damages if liability is established against the trespasser/tortfeasor; so doesnt have to constitute a 
discrete cause of action for wrongful  occupation or wrongful  damage,  and hence be considered 
discretely under a separate section of the policy: see, for example, McGregor on Damages (20th ed., 
39-046 et seq).
 
Aviva have since conceded  that a claim  for trespass would be covered, despite the property being  
commercial premises. But they submit that Firm C had never  actually been formally  appointed, as the 
solicitors never  agreed to or returned  their terms of appointment   which Aviva say is a requirement  
before they will consider covering any costs.  
But given the poor service and delays that had been caused, Aviva agreed to cover a proportion of 
the costs in respect of the trespass claim  from 28 June 2017  the date in which the insurer  deemed 
the poor service to have started  until 2 December  2017. But Firm C argue that the costs in relation 
to the claim should be considered from 19 January 2017 when they received positive  prospects from 
counsel, not from the point the delays  began.  So the matter that remains  to be considered  is the 
extent to which Aviva  should be liable for any further costs in respect of the trespass claim.
There has been much  dispute about which  party  was responsible for the delays, which  has so far 
dictated the matter of what  costs Aviva should be responsible for. And having considered the 
evidence, I can see that both parties have been responsible for delays in this case. Aviva had to be 
chased by Firm C a number of times after failing to respond; but I can also see that Firm C did not 
provide adequate information in order for Aviva to assess the claim until March  2017,  and the 
solicitors also did not respond in relation  to the terms of appointment until June 2017,  at which point 
vacant possession  had already been  obtained.
But irrespective of which party was responsible for the delays  and given that the claim in trespass 
was ultimately accepted  by Aviva  I dont think its fair or reasonable for the insurer  to refuse cover 
for the majority of costs incurred from January 2017  onwards, just because  Firm C did not return the 
terms of appointment. I appreciate that Firm C incurred  costs prior to Avivas  written acceptance of 
the claim in March 2018  such as instructing counsel  and that they also launched legal 
proceedings without the insurers agreement. But this is the sort of ground work the insurer  wouldve 
had to carry out in any event, and its highly unlikely  that court action  couldve been avoided in the 
Ref: DRN827934813context of a claim in trespass, which was also very time pressured.  So I intend to ask Aviva to cover 
Mr Es costs  from the point in which counsel issued positive prospects on 19 January 2017  as this is 
when the requirements of cover under the policy for a claim in trespass were seemingly met.
However, Im conscious that Aviva  wouldnt have necessarily incurred the same level of costs  if theyd 
been managing the claim from the outset. An insurer wouldnt typically go straight to a barrister for a 
prospects assessment, for example, and would usually  instruct  panel solicitors to undertake such 
tasks at a preferential  rate due to their economies  of scale. So I only intend asking Aviva to cover Mr 
Es costs  to the extent that it wouldve  cost the insurer if theyd been managing the process from 19 
January 2017. But given that Aviva had agreed to appoint Firm C on 18 March 2017, I intend asking 
them to cover  costs at the non-panel rate from this point. I think this is a fair compromise  in the 
circumstances, particularly  given  that Firm C did incur costs without Avivas  permission,  and also 
failed to provide the insurer with any substantive information until 1 March 2017.
But I will only be asking  Aviva to cover costs in respect of the initial mandate of a claim  in trespass 
with a view to obtaining possession  i.e. up until the point that vacant  possession was obtained. It 
was always open to Firm C to include a claim  for damages or mesne  profits  for the trespass in the 
same particulars of claim. However, it appears that Firm C did not seek  damages in the original 
proceedings, which seem to have been  solely  concerned  with obtaining  vacant possession.  This 
meant they had to incur further costs in seeking permission to amend the particulars  of claim to 
secure a further judgment in relation to the outstanding mesne profits. 
Had Aviva  been overseeing  the claim from the outset,  I consider it likely that they wouldve sought  to 
manage costs and proceedings in the most  efficient way possible, which  would mean incorporating  
the action of evicting the trespassers with the claim  for damages so that it could all be considered by 
the court  in one go, rather than having to waste further costs  by submitting another  application for it to 
be considered  separately. So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Aviva to cover any costs in respect of 
the separate claim for mesne profits  just because Firm C didnt include this in the original particulars  
of claim to be considered  by the court. And I cant see that the policy would  cover such a claim 
independently of the trespass action in any event,  and neither would the policy cover any related 
enforcement action.  So I dont intend asking Aviva to cover these costs.
compensation
In terms of compensation, Aviva acknowledged that their service  had been poor from June 2017 
onwards, so they offered to pay a contribution  towards the costs incurred  in relation to the possession  
of the premises   which  Firm C have accepted and cost instructions have since been sent to an 
external cost assessor. 
On top of this, Aviva  also offered to pay £150 compensation. I can see that the poor service,  
contradictory information and delays have caused Firm C a substantial degree of inconvenience and 
uncertainty, meaning the firm has had to invest a significant amount of time and correspondence in 
chasing up the insurer. But I consider Avivas offer to pay a contribution towards costs from 28 June 
2017 to 2 December 2017  which Firm C have reported to be within the region of £2,000 to £3,000  
as well the £150 offered to be fair compensation in the circumstances, so I dont intend asking  them to 
pay any additional compensation on top of this. But I would also expect the contribution towards  these 
costs to also be at the non-panel rate they wouldve paid Firm C if theyd been properly appointed in 
line with the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I intend to uphold this complaint and ask Aviva  to:
Cover Mr Es legal  expenses incurred in respect of the claim for trespass from 19 January 
2017 to the time vacant  possession was secured   plus 8% simple interest per year on those  
costs from the date they became payable  to the date of indemnity;
Ref: DRN827934814Pay any further costs incurred  in respect of the claim  for trespass from 28 June 2017 to 2 
December 2017 (with no interest payable  on these costs given that it is a compensatory  
payment for Avivas  poor service,  rather  than money in which they ought  to have always  paid 
under the policy);
Pay £150  compensation;
Pay Firm Cs reasonable  copying and postage charges  (subject to reasonable proof).
Aviva ought only to cover  the initial costs to the extent  it wouldve  cost them if theyd been managing 
the claim from the outset, and then at the non-panel rate for any costs  incurred after 18 March 2017 
when they agreed to appoint Firm C. 
Interest may be paid less any tax lawfully  deductible.  
Ref: DRN8279348