K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls unhappy Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  added markers to his credit file 
after it set up a repayment plan on the account   and it didnt tell him this would  happen.
background
Mr L opened a Capital One credit  card account  in November 2014. In May 2017, he got in 
touch with Capital  One as he was struggling  financially.  He set up a payment plan of £17 per 
month instead of the monthly repayments agreed  under the credit agreement. And he 
planned to pay the balance off once he got back on his feet.
Mr Ls explained a payment  was due on the date he called Capital One and made  the 
arrangement. But hes said it didnt let him know during the call that the agreement would be 
recorded in any way on his credit file. Hes said he thought Capital One accepted  reduced 
payments from him as a gesture of goodwill or because it was legally obliged  to. 
Capital Ones said it no longer has a recording of the call that took place.
Around August  2017, Mr Ls said he noticed default markers had been added  to his credit file 
so he got in touch with Capital One. But hes said it wouldnt  remove the markers because 
they were applied correctly and in line with the original agreement.  Hes said they were 
changed to arrangement  to pay markers after he got in touch with the credit reference  
agencies. But hes also unhappy about arrangement to pay markers being on his credit file. 
Hes said these markers also have  a negative impact on his credit score. And he thinks  
theyll stay on his file indefinitely rather than being removed after six years.
Capital One says it added the markers  to Mr Ls credit file correctly.  Its said if an 
accountholder doesnt  make  the contractual repayments on time, it must report it to the 
credit reference agencies  even if an arrangement is in place. Its said it sent Mr L a letter 
explaining how it reports information to the credit reference agencies. Mr Ls said he didnt 
receive this letter  and in any event,  he thinks if Capital  One had explained things clearly 
over the phone, he wouldnt  have  entered the arrangement. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained she thought  Capital One had 
reported the information correctly and she thought it was more likely  it had sent a letter  to 
Mr L. She thought Mr L shouldve been reasonably aware the outstanding debt would affect 
his credit file. Mr L didnt agree with the investigators opinion  so the complaints been 
passed to me to reach a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
I understand Mr Ls said he wasnt aware when he reached an agreement  with Capital One 
in May 2017  it would add markers to his credit file. Ive looked at the arrangement that was 
put in place at the time and it was for Mr L to pay £17 per month towards the agreement for 
12 months. Usually, if a temporary repayment plan for less than the contractual  amount is 
agreed between  a lender and a customer, the arrangement  will be reported to the credit 
reference agencies   and thats  whats happened  here. So, in principle, I dont think 
Capital One has acted unfairly by not removing this. 
Ref: DRN81320802I agree  with Mr L that it was important for Capital One to let him know that the arrangement 
would show on his credit  file and how it would work. But Capital One has given us a copy of 
a letter  dated  18 May 2017 to show it did send Mr L this information. I understand Mr L says 
he didnt receive  this letter from Capital One.  Hes explained he sometimes  has issues  with 
receiving post which  I dont doubt.  But I dont  think Capital One is responsible  for Mr L not 
receiving this letter. From what Ive seen, the address was the same  as the address shown 
on other correspondence Capital One sent to him around that time.  So I think its more likely 
it was the address it held for him at the time. Im satisfied Capital One sent the letter  to Mr L 
and I dont think its responsible for checking  hed received it. 
Mr Ls said at the time of the call when the arrangement was made,  his payment for 
May 2017 was already due. So he thinks Capital One shouldve made it clear on the call 
what the impact of the agreement would be  as the letter wouldve arrived too late to act as 
a warning. He says,  if Capital One had made  things clear during the call, he wouldnt have 
entered the arrangement.  I cant be sure what was discussed during the call, the recording is 
no longer held and the notes are relatively brief.  Its possible Capital One explained what 
would happen  with Mr Ls credit file.  But, Im not persuaded this makes  a difference  in this 
case anyway. The payment was due on that day and if Mr L hadnt entered the arrangement,  
I think its still likely his credit file wouldve  been adversely impacted by him missing the 
payment  or paying  late. But in that circumstance,  there would be nothing  reported to show 
hes at least reached an agreement with the business to make  payments and that situation  
might be viewed more  favourably  by creditors looking at his credit file than a situation where 
no payment is made at all.
I know Mr Ls said he wouldve borrowed money  from family  if Capital  One had explained 
things more clearly. But I cant  say its more likely he couldve arranged  this at such  late 
notice on the date the payment was due. And considering  his repayment history before and 
after this date very carefully   in particular, he made a reduced payment in July 2017 late 
rather than borrowing the amount from his family   Im not satisfied its more likely he 
wouldve done anything  differently. 
Mr Ls said hes concerned this information  wont be removed from his file  like a default 
marker usually would be  after six years. But I can assure Mr L arrangement  to pay 
markers are removed after six years. 
Overall, I think Capital  One took reasonable steps to notify Mr L of how the arrangement  to 
pay would  work. And from what Ive seen in this case, I think  Mr Ls credit file accurately 
reflects the conduct of his account. So I dont think Capital One has acted unfairly or needs  
to do anything more  in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8132080