K821x#15Complaint
Ms B has complained about  credit  granted to her by Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn). She says that the credit was unaffordable for her and Moneybarn would have 
known this had it carried out adequate checks beforehand. 
Background
Moneybarn agreed  credit for Ms B on 20 February 2014 via an intermediary in order for her 
to acquire a car. The cash price of the car, as per the agreement, was £7,1251. Ms B paid a 
deposit of £595 and borrowed the remainder. The deposit and the credit, along with £4,551 
interest and charges, came to a total £11,676. This was to be repaid by 47 instalments of 
£236, following  the initial payment. 
The credit was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Ms B would own the 
car when  the credit  had been  repaid. Moneybarn was the owner until that point and Ms B 
was, in essence, paying for the use of it. 
Ms B says that Moneybarn should not have agreed  to lend to her because she couldnt  
afford to meet the repayments. She says that she had outstanding debts at the time and 
struggled to meet her repayments  alongside  her other costs. Moneybarn says that it 
undertook suitable  checks  to ensure  the credit was affordable for Ms B and that it wasnt 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to her. 
Our investigator looked into what happened when Ms Bs credit was agreed and didnt 
recommend that her complaint  be upheld. Ms B didnt agree with this assessment and asked 
for the complaint to come  to an ombudsman to review and resolve.  
I issued my provisional decision on 2 February  2021 explaining why I was thinking  of coming
to a different  view of Ms Bs complaint and provisionally found that Moneybarn was 
irresponsible to have  agreed credit  for her. Ms B has accepted my provisional decision and I 
havent had a response from Moneybarn. 
This is my final decision on the matter.  If Ms B accepts this then it will be legally  binding  on 
both parties. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. Neither party  
has provided any new information or comment  so I see no need to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  Ive set out my final conclusions and my reasoning  below.  
As Id explained in my provisional decision, this is a finally  balanced case. The credit  was 
agreed in 2014  and there is limited information available. I have made my decision on the 
basis of the available information  and on the balance of probabilities, in other words on what 
I consider most likely to have been the case.  Having considered everything carefully, Im 
upholding Ms Bs complaint.
1 Ive rounded all figures to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
Ref: DRN81988182The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT) was the regulator  when Ms B borrowed from Moneybarn.  
The relevant  rules  and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
(ILG) said that before agreeing credit it needed to check that Ms B could afford to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner.  This meant Ms B being able to meet  her repayments 
out of her normal income without having to go without  or borrow further. Ive set out some  of 
the relevant guidance below for ease.
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning  credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without  undue difficulty  in particular  without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case  of open-end agreements,  within a 
reasonable period  of time 
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
And Paragraph 4.4 described  undue  difficulty:
The OFT would regard  without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable  outgoings 
and
without  having  to borrow  further to meet these repayments. 
Paragraph 4.26 gave an example of irresponsible lending as Granting an application for 
credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or reasonably ought to 
be suspected,  that the credit is likely to be unsustainable. 
The regulations werent prescriptive  about what checks Moneybarn  needed  to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Ms B would be able to meet  her repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks  needed  to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same  checks might not be appropriate for all borrowers, or for the same 
borrower in all circumstances. In general,  Id expect a lender to seek more  assurance, 
potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
-the lower a persons  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
-the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the borrower  is required to make  payments for an 
extended period).
Ref: DRN81988183Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Bs case, I have considered  the 
following questions:
-did Moneybarn  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing 
Ms Bs application to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay the credit  in a 
sustainable way? And, if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown?  
-did Moneybarn  make a fair lending decision?
Moneybarn says that it asked Ms B about  her income and expenses when she applied  for 
credit. It says it also checked  her credit file but it hasnt been  able to provide either the 
results or a summary of them. The lender provided a copy  of the bank statements and 
payslips it used to check Ms Bs income  and says its checks were sufficient to enable it to 
make a reasonable assessment of her ability to meet the repayments. Moneybarn says that 
after reviewing the information it concluded that the credit would be affordable for her.
Ms B says that she was hasty  in filling out her application form for this agreement and 
missed out some expenses and mis-calculated  others.  She says that Moneybarns  checks 
werent adequate  because  it ought  to have seen  inconsistencies between  what shed said 
about her finances  and the arears it would have seen on her credit file and the expenses on 
her bank statements. 
I dont know what Ms B told Moneybarn about her expenses or her circumstances. So its not 
clear to me whether there were any obvious mis-matches between  what  shed declared and 
the information it had. Given the size of the repayments relative to Ms Bs income and the 
length of time over which shed need to meet this level of repayment, I think  a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment by Moneybarn would have included verification of Ms Bs 
income and usual outgoings.  As mentioned, Moneybarn saw copies of her payslips and her 
bank statements which covered the period 27 November 2013 to 12 February 2014. Ive 
reviewed all this information  in considering whether Moneybarn made a fair lending  decision 
based on the information it had.
The information shows that Ms Bs monthly net pay was £1,057 in December 2013  and a 
total of £963 in January  2014. Moneybarn says that the monthly credit repayments  of £236 
didnt take up more than 25% of Ms Bs monthly net pay at 23.34% which, I assume,  refers  
to the average  of these income  deposits.  I appreciate that this percentage was lower than 
Moneybarns internal criterion, nevertheless it amounted to almost a quarter of Ms Bs net 
monthly income which she would need  to set aside,  potentially  for a period of four years. 
Moneybarn could also see from her payslips that these were  her first two months pay from 
this employer. 
Ms B says that at the time of taking out the credit agreement she had two existing  credit  
cards and was paying monthly for football season  tickets. As mentioned,  I dont know what 
Moneybarn might have  seen on Ms Bs credit file. Ms B hasnt provided a copy of this either 
so I have no information about   how she was managing any existing credit commitments 
beyond what shes said, which is that she was behind  in her payments on one of her credit  
cards. However, it doesnt seem to me that Moneybarn  would  have declined  to lend to her 
solely on the basis of missed payments on one of her lines of credit. 
Ms B says that she was living with her father  at the time as she was his carer. She says she 
contributed to the household expenses through  buying food and paying rent and bills. She 
paid rent and bills in cash  (the latter through shop counter payments) and altogether  these 
living costs  came to about £600 a month. Let me say at this point that Ms B has been  
Ref: DRN81988184consistent in what shes said about  this matter  and what  shes said about her circumstances 
seems plausible  to me. 
On investigation,  I can see from the bank statements that from Ms Bs payday on the 20th 
December 2013  she withdrew £400  in cash and paid about  £300 on food shopping. She also 
spent about £90 on payments for season tickets, her mobile  phone, credit card and petrol.  
From her January payday (23rd) to a week before her February payday Ms B withdrew £400, 
spent £190 on food plus £115  for the other  costs Ive mentioned.  Ms B was left with on 
average £250 each pay period and this is without considering any other usual living  costs  or 
one-off expenses. I note that Ms Bs bank  balance was £12 before her December pay and 
£6 about a week  before her January pay. I think this information supports what Ms B said 
about her circumstances at the time.
I think this level of disposable income,  taken  together with Ms Bs relatively low level of 
income in the circumstances  of this agreement ought to have alerted Moneybarn  to the 
likelihood that Ms B wasnt  going to be able to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. I also think any further investigation of her finances would not have  provided  any 
assurance to the contrary. Ms B has provided more  of her bank statements from around that 
time. I dont know what her source of income was in the months  before December but I can 
see she had far less coming in than she spent. And so Ive concluded that Moneybarn was 
irresponsible to have  lent to Ms B on this occasion.  
I appreciate that Ms B managed to meet her payments for about  18 months before raising 
concerns about  being able to pay. However,  in this case  I dont  think  its reasonable to 
conclude that successfully meeting repayments  meant that Ms B was able to do so without 
undue difficulty.  Ms B said of this time I was left struggling financially every  month  and was 
unable to properly  afford my other  living costs. I was left feeling  stressed  and anxious. 
In November 2015 Ms Bs direct debit  was returned  and I can see from the customer contact  
notes that she had various  discussions  with Moneybarn  after that about refinancing and 
early settlement. The notes record that when her father suffered a medical emergency mid-
2016 Ms B took several weeks of unpaid leave from her job and undertook  a repayment plan 
to clear her arrears.  Ms B settled the agreement in full early in August 2017.  
What Moneybarn needs to do to put things right
As I think  the credit was irresponsibly agreed, Ms B shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount she borrowed.  In other words,  she isnt liable for any interest,  charges  or fees 
associated with the agreement. To be clear,  this includes  any unpaid  direct debit fees.
Id expect Ms B to repay the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of these funds or, in 
this case, the use of a car in exchange  for the funds.  This has the effect  of reducing the 
amount Ms B owes under  the agreement to the capital borrowed, in other words £7,125 
being the cash price  of the car. 
Ref: DRN81988185Moneybarn should:
a)Treat all payments, including the deposit and any upfront fees, Ms B made as 
payments towards the cash price of the car; and
b)Refund any payments  Ms B has made above  the cash price along with 8% per 
annum simple interest*  from the date of each  overpayment  to the date of settlement 
to reflect  the fact that she should  not have been  deprived of these funds; and
c)Remove all adverse information about  this credit  from Ms Bs credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn  to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn   
must give Ms B a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am upholding Ms Bs complaint about  Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited and require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8198818