K820xAviva14complaint
Mr S complained that Aviva Insurance Limited  avoided his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr S reported to Aviva that his car had been vandalised when parked overnight.  But Aviva 
decided that Mr S had deliberately misrepresented his home address where the car would 
be kept overnight, and if hed told them his correct home address, they would have charged 
him a higher  premium or wouldnt have insured him at all. 
So Aviva avoided Mr Ss policy, meaning they treated it as if it hadnt existed from the start. 
They wouldnt pay his claim for his car and wouldnt refund the premiums hed paid.
Mr S denied having made a deliberate misrepresentation. He said that he did live at the 
address hed given Aviva.  He wanted them to accept his claim, accept that he hadnt made a 
deliberate misrepresentation, apologise,  and refund the premiums hed paid. He also felt that 
theyd delayed in replying to his complaint and in telling  him his right to complain to this 
service. Mr S brought  his complaint to us, via his solicitor.
The investigator didnt  recommend that is complaint be upheld.  He thought that Aviva  hadnt 
been unreasonable on the evidence they had. Mr S disagreed  so his case  was passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain  remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA  describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must  show that they would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  and the insurer can show that they would 
not have offered the policy at all, or that they would  only have offered it on different terms, 
they are entitled  to avoid the consumers  policy.  This means they will not have to deal with 
any claims under it. They may also keep  the premiums paid. 
When an insurer claims that a consumer misrepresented information thats important to the 
insurer, we check whether the insurer  asked  the consumer a clear question about  that 
information when  they took out the policy. 
Ref: DRN84605952Ive seen the questions the online comparison site asked of Mr S when he took out the 
insurance policy, and his answers:
What is your address? Mr S answered,  Address  A. 
Is the car kept overnight at home  or elsewhere? and he was given the option  of 
At home or Elsewhere . He answered, At home . 
I think that those are clear  questions. So I must consider whether Mr S took reasonable care 
to answer them.
Aviva claimed that Mr S deliberately or recklessly  misrepresented his home  address where 
he said his car was kept overnight. When Mr S reported to Aviva that his car had been 
vandalised, they asked if it had happened  at his home (address A). Mr S said it had 
happened at a different address, B, which he said was a friends  address and he had been 
staying there  while  his friend was away. But he also said that he owned  address B and used 
it as a business and correspondence address.  
Aviva said that if theyd known that his car would be overnight at a different address from 
address A, which hed said in the application was his home address, they wouldnt have 
insured him at all. And if hed given address B as his home address at the start,  theyd  have 
charged him a higher premium. Theyve shown us evidence  to confirm this. They  felt hed 
deliberately miss-stated  his home address  to obtain a cheaper  premium.
Aviva asked him to prove that address  A was his home address. Mr S gave them  a letter  
from HMRC about tax credits, which was addressed to him at A. But he said he couldnt 
provide any other documentation, such as utility bills, with address  A as they were all in his 
wifes name.  He provided two letters to him from the council, confirming  that he paid the 
council tax on both addresses A and B. But both of those letters  were  addressed  to him at 
address B.
His cars registration document didnt show either address A or B, as it was still in the 
manufacturers name. But he produced several  other documents  which showed his address 
as being address B. This included a copy of his driving licence which  hed only just renewed 
the month before he took out the policy,  and a bank statement for a period  just after he took 
out the policy. Taking all this together, Aviva thought that Mr S s home was address B not 
address A, contrary to what hed said when he took out the policy, and that he did not take 
reasonable care in answering Aviva questions  about his home address and this was 
deliberate. 
I think that on the above evidence that Aviva  had, it was reasonable for them  to take that 
view, and to declare Mr Ss policy void from the start.  So I dont ask them to do anything 
different there. 
Aviva also showed  us that his policy schedule made it clear  that theyd asked Mr S to check  
his policy  documents  carefully afterwards, as if the information was incorrect  it could affect 
his policys validity. A similar warning was given in the policy  itself.  So I think  that Aviva  gave 
warnings about  the effect of not checking the documents carefully. 
Ref: DRN84605953Taking all the above evidence  together,  I think that Aviva fairly decided  that Mr S did not take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. And theyve shown us evidence that if Mr 
S had not made this misrepresentation, they either  wouldnt  have offered Mr S insurance at 
all or would have  offered  it on at higher premium shown  so the mis-representation 
wouldve affected the terms. So Im satisfied that Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Under CIDRA, Aviva  can retain  the premiums  Mr S paid, if they can show 
that his qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And I think that theyve done 
that, so they havent acted unfairly  there.
I realise that Mr S is likely to be disappointed  with this decision,  But I think  that Avivas  view 
that Mr S deliberately  mis-represented  information in taking out the policy  was reasonable. 
And so their decision to avoid his policy was also reasonable. 
Mr Ss solicitor  complained that Aviva didnt  deal with Mr Ss complaint promptly enough or 
explain his rights when  they avoided the policy. Aviva acknowledge they didnt reply prompt  
to his solicitor but said this was because they needed Mr Ss authority to do so first. They  
gave Mr S the reasons for their decision in about  August, but they didnt have to give him his 
complaint rights then as he hadnt  complained. And though it seems  that they didnt send 
him a final response  to the complaint  as they should, Im not persuaded that this caused  Mr 
S any prejudice, as Mr S did then bring his complaint to us. And so, I dont ask Aviva to do 
anything else about this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.  
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8460595