K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (trading as Tesco  Bank)  wrongly recorded 
a fraud  marker  at CIFAS,  the national fraud database.
background
Mr C received a credit  of £4,000 to his account  on 1 August  2017.  Tesco  Bank then had 
notification from the sending bank that the funds had been reported as fraudulently  obtained. 
Mr C told it that he had received the money from a client  to purchase a car at auction. He 
says that the client changed his mind about the purchase and that he paid the money back 
in cash.
Tesco Bank didnt  accept what Mr C said because the funds were transferred from his 
account to other accounts at different financial businesses some  of which were in his name  
and then withdrawn  in cash. It wasnt returned  to the original  account.  It told Mr C that his 
account would be closed but in error  didnt do so until 4 June  2018.  It paid him £50 for this 
but said it wouldnt be removing the CIFAS marker. It suggested this service contact the 
other banks  involved  for further clarification.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said that the bar for 
reporting fraud to CIFAS was a high one. There needed to be more  than suspicion and clear  
and rigorous evidence.  She didnt think Tesco Bank could fairly  rely on what  it had been told 
by other  financial businesses but needed to show its own investigation to support what  it 
said. Mr C hadnt provided  evidence to support his account of how he had paid the money to 
other accounts to withdraw in cash for the auction. But the onus here was on Tesco  Bank to 
show it met the criteria.  She said that Tesco  Bank should remove the marker and pay Mr C a 
further £150 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Tesco Bank didnt  agree. It said it had met the following key principles established by CIFAS 
for reporting a marker which it said are as follows:
1. That there are reasonable grounds  to believe that a Fraud  or Financial Crime has been  
committed or attempted;
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police;
3. The conduct  of the Subject must meet the criteria of one of the Case Types;
4. In order to file the member must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated  a Product on the 
basis of Fraud unless  the member has an obligation to provide the Product or the Subject 
has already received the full benefit of the Product.
It said that it didnt have to suffer a loss or actually  to report  the matter  to police. The fact that 
fraudulent funds had passed through Mr Cs account and our customer was aware of the 
transaction was enough for us to record this with CIFAS. It went  on to say that Mr C hadnt 
provided any evidence  to support his version  of events and that it didnt  make  sense for the 
said client to pay money  into Mr Cs bank  account if he needed cash for the auction. He went  
to great  lengths to withdraw this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84691252Tesco Bank has correctly  identified the relevant principles I need to think about  here.  In 
summary it needs to have  more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I dont doubt that these  funds were fraudulently obtained in the first place. Tesco Bank  had a 
report from another financial business  about  this. And also the mere fact that Mr C received 
these funds into his account was a ground for some suspicion. His account of needing to pay 
for a car in cash,  and of remitting the funds  through different accounts before withdrawing 
can be seen as suspicious  too given the origin  of the money.  However, as our investigator 
has pointed out suspicion isnt enough to make a report. It is up to Tesco  Bank to provide the 
evidence that it had when it decided to add the marker.
Looking to point  2 using the numbering above  I dont  think Tesco  Bank has established to 
the required standard that Mr C knew or must have known that the funds were fraudulent. 
Its noted in its records  that he has been an officer of a company since  2014 which  may be 
involved in the relevant  business area. And the other evidence  linking him to the fraud is 
third hand.  Mr C doesnt have to prove  his innocence here but the burden is on Tesco  Bank 
to demonstrate its met the bar for a report.  
So while I share its concerns about the way in which fraudulent funds have  been  dispersed 
in this way its not satisfied  me that its met the principles as far as Mr Cs involvement is 
concerned. Absent that it didnt have  a basis to report a marker. Technically speaking  it also 
seemed not to have actually withdrawn the account as it was available  to Mr C until June 
2018. But thats not the reason for me saying it had no reasonable basis  to apply the marker 
when it did.
Tesco Bank has paid £50 compensation already for not closing  the account and I agree with 
the suggested resolution by the investigator of further compensation of £150 to reflect the 
impact of the marker  on Mr C and which hed confirmed he was happy with.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance plc (trading  
as Tesco  Bank) to:
1)Pay Mr C a further £150
2)Remove any record of the marker relating to this specific  payment from the CIFAS 
database.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8469125