K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly 
and unreasonably when dealing with their mortgage  enquiry.  They want  compensation and 
their credit records  changed.
background
Mr and Mrs H discussed with Halifax the possibility of getting  a mortgage for £140,000.  They  
got a decision  in principle that Halifax would potentially lend up to £126,000 and chose not to 
proceed. Later, Halifax wrote to say the application  wasnt proceeding. Mr and Mrs H felt 
insulted and that their integrity had been called into question. In particular, they said that 
they hadnt applied for a mortgage and had simply made an enquiry, though they accepted  
that they knew a credit  search was required to generate the decision  in principle.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Halifax. It said Mr and Mrs H knew that a credit search was 
being carried out and that they got a decision in principle, which said that they couldnt 
borrow more than £126,000. Halifax questioned if Mr and Mrs H didnt know  what was 
happening (having deal with other  lenders), it didnt  understand why they didnt ask why a 
credit search was needed and about  the decision in principle. Halifax  denied that its letter 
about the mortgage application not proceeding was offensive, and commented  that the credit 
search didnt say if the application had been  declined. It reiterated that all that had happened 
was that a mortgage application for the amount sought by Mr and Mrs H didnt proceed.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that, having listened to the call 
between Mr H and Halifax, it was clear  that he had agreed twice  to the credit search and 
getting a decision  in principle. She also pointed out that there was no footprint in the credit 
records of the credit  search  and she didnt think that Halifax  had nothing anything wrong. 
The adjudicator thought  that Halifax had explained  what it was doing to Mr H and the 
contents of its letter  was accurate.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They said that they only made an enquiry, and not an application. 
They also said the tone of the letter was inappropriate as it was their choice not to proceed 
with the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, this complaint is about  whether Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage. Having 
considered all the evidence available to me, its clear a full application wasnt made, but the 
process was started. Mr H wanted to know  if he and Mrs H could borrow £140,000 and to 
get a good idea about the likelihood,  he did start the mortgage application process.  The first 
stages include carrying out a credit search  and getting a decision in principle.  Mr H agreed to 
this.
What happened  next was that Mr H decided to not proceed with the application. Halifax 
confirmed this in writing. Its this letter to which  Mr and Mrs H object. But the letter isnt 
inaccurate  it says that the mortgage  application  isnt proceeding. Mr and Mrs H did start 
the process and ended it at an early stage. I cant say the letter is unfair or unreasonable  in 
the circumstances, and I dont think its offensive.
Ref: DRN84968752I thought about  whether Mr H realised that he was starting a mortgage application by getting 
a decision in principle  and agreeing to a credit  search, and in particular whether Halifax 
made it clear  enough to him what was happening.  Halifax sent this service  a copy of the call 
recording. Its clear that Halifax did explain to Mr H what was happening  and about  the credit  
search. Mr H said that he didnt want to proceed any further.
I also dont think that merely reporting that a credit search was undertaken is unfair  or 
unreasonable. Halifax is required to accurately report such  events  to the credit reference 
agencies, Mr H agreed to the search, and it isnt in itself negative information.  And in any 
event, the credit search isnt in the credit records shown to me.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before  11 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8496875