K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1995 on 
both a Visa card and a MasterCard. Mr K says Lloyds Bank PLC,  trading as TSB, mis-sold 
him PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
I am not upholding  Mr Ks complaint and I will explain why.
Mr K says he wasnt aware PPI was optional and he has no recollection  of being told about 
it. But based on the evidence Ive seen  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr K didnt have  to 
take out PPI and he chose to take out this cover   although due to the amount of years  that 
have passed I can understand  why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive seen a 
copy of Mr Ks credit card application form. This included a section for PPI with both a yes 
and no option  for the cover. The yes option  has been ticked  and Mr K signed  the form, 
agreeing for PPI to be added to both his Visa card and MasterCard.  So I think this reflected 
what he wanted at the time. 
I think its more  likely than not Lloyds advised Mr K to have the PPI policy  in the meeting. So 
as it did this, it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for him. Based on what  Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the cover. Ive also considered  what Mr K has said about his 
sick pay at the time but I think he would have found  value in having the cover as it would  
have paid out for an extended period of time longer than his sick pay. So I think  the cover  
was suitable and I think it wouldve been  useful  for him had he needed to make a claim. 
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better 
information about PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mr K. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mr K because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
cover to Mr K.
Ref: DRN83221862But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8322186