K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Brightside  Insurance Services Limited  renewed a car insurance 
policy he asked it not to. Brightside  passed  Mr Ms details to a debt collection  agent. 
background
Mr M bought  a car insurance policy through Brightside in 2017.  In 2018 it wrote  to Mr M to 
invite him to renew  his policy.  Mr M contacted Brightside before the renewal date to cancel 
the renewal. 
A few weeks  later Mr M received a message from a debt collection agent. It said he owed 
money due under a cancelled policy. Mr M was very upset about this as he was worried  any 
adverse credit record would impact  on his job. He told his manager about the issue and 
complained to Brightside.
Brightside apologised. It hadnt  cancelled the renewal as Mr M had requested. It had 
incorrectly passed Mr M's details to a debt collection agent. Brightside  said it contacted the 
debt collection agent to remove Mr M from their records. It paid Mr M £30 compensation.  
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. He was concerned that Brightside  had breached  
data protection  rules  by passing  his information on incorrectly to a debt collection agent. He 
didnt think the compensation it had paid fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused him. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  investigate complaints about a breach of GDPR  
but we can decide if an insurer has breached confidentiality. She thought  it had. She didnt 
think Brightside should have forwarded Mr Ms details  to the debt collection agent. 
The investigator recommended  Brightside  increase  the compensation it paid Mr M by £70, 
making a total of £100.
Mr M accepted the investigators view. Brightside  didnt  agree. It hasnt said why. So the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
I think Mr M was caused worry and inconvenience by Brightsides failure to carry out his 
request to cancel the renewal of his car insurance policy.  Mr M explained that he felt obliged  
to report the issue  to his manager. His job required Mr M to have a clean credit record. So 
he was very worried about the impact the referral to a debt collection agent would have on 
his credit record  and therefore  his job.
The letter sent by the debt collection agent is strongly worded  which might be reasonable if 
Mr M owed  the debt. But he didnt. 
Ref: DRN85314942Mr M has checked his credit record and told us theres no reference  on there in relation to 
the incorrect referral by Brightside. This is good  news. But I dont think  £30 compensation is 
enough to compensate Mr M. Brightside  passed  Mr Ms details to a third party because it 
failed to correctly  carry out his instructions.  
So I think its fair and reasonable for Brightside  to increase the compensation it paid Mr M by 
£70, making the total sum £100  to resolve  Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr M £70 compensation in addition  to the £30 
its already paid him. 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8531494