K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the service she received from Covea Insurance  Plc when she 
made a claim under  her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs C bought a car insurance policy through a broker. The underwriter of her policy is 
Covea. 
Mrs C called her broker  on a Saturday  to report an incident. The broker provided her with a 
contact number for Covea. Mrs C wasnt able to speak to an agent ay Covea to report  the 
incident until Monday morning.  
Mrs C complained to Covea. She wanted  to progress her claim on the Saturday  and wanted  
Covea to provide  her with a courtesy car. She said she had to use taxis over the weekend  
and on the Monday morning. She wanted Covea to compensate her for her losses  and the 
inconvenience it caused. 
A week after Mrs C reported the incident; her car was still outside her home.  Mrs C was 
unhappy that Covea hadnt  arranged for it to be collected by a salvage agent  as Covea had 
declared her car a total loss. 
Covea said it couldnt help Mrs C with her complaint about information  the broker  had given 
her. Covea said its opening hours at the weekend were until 1pm on Saturday. It said that in 
any event, this wouldnt have meant  a courtesy  car would  have  been  provided for Mrs C on 
the Saturday. Her car needed to be inspected by an approved repairer. If it was repairable, 
Mrs C was able to have  a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs.  
On the Monday, to progress her claim  sooner,  Covea asked Mrs C to provide photos of her 
car as the second agent she spoke  to believed it may not be economical  to repair.  And 
Covea arranged for Mrs C to have a courtesy  car as a goodwill gesture by 6pm on the 
Monday. 
Three days later, Covea tried to contact Mrs C to confirm the total loss settlement for her car. 
It tried to speak to Mrs C again on the Friday and the following Monday. It provided 
Mrs C with a courtesy car until 8 October 2018. This was 2 and a half weeks after it first 
called Mrs C to confirm  the total loss settlement to her. 
Covea apologised  for the delay in arranging for Mrs Cs car to be collected.  For this it sent 
Mrs C a hamper gift. 
Our investigator thought Covea had dealt  with Mrs Cs complaint reasonably.  
Mrs C didnt agree. She said when  she called Covea on the Saturday  she received an 
automated message to say they were having  system difficulties. It wasnt clear  that the office 
was closed. She said most insurers are open seven  days a week. Mrs C said she paid for 
taxis because a courtesy  car wasnt provided for her at the weekend.  
Mrs C said nobody inspected her car. The decision not to repair it was based on photos she 
provided. She doesnt think  this was the correct way to deal with her claim. 
Ref: DRN83806242Mrs C has raised  a concern about  roadside assistance. This is a new issue  and so it isnt 
something that forms part of my decision. 
Mrs C would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
Fortunately it isnt something that happens  every  day. As the investigator  explained,  I cant 
comment on what the broker told Mrs C about the possibility of a courtesy  car on the 
Saturday  or about Coveas opening hours. 
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to take a couple of days  to arrange  for a customers  car 
to be inspected by an approved repairer.  So I think even if Mrs C had been able to speak to 
Covea on the Saturday, I wouldnt have found  it had been unreasonable by not providing  a 
courtesy car for a few days   until the approved repairer had inspected  Mrs Cs car and 
decided if it was repairable. 
Mrs C spoke to Covea  on the Monday morning. She waited for an approved repairer to call 
her back  to arrange collection of her car. By 12pm  Mrs C hadnt had an update.  So she 
called Covea back. To assist Mrs C, Covea asked her to send photos of her car as the agent  
thought her car might not be economical to repair. The agent  was correct. To compensate  
Mrs C for not explaining  this earlier, Covea made  arrangements for Mrs C to be in a hire car 
later that day as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs Cs policy provides  cover for a courtesy car for the duration of repairs  once an 
approved repairer  has decided  the car is repairable. So I think Covea acted  reasonably here 
- as the provision of a hire car was over and above what Mrs Cs policy provided.
It isnt always necessary for an insurer to arrange a physical inspection  of a vehicle. So it 
isnt unusual for an engineer to carry out a desk based review  and rely on photos.  And in this 
case, Covea asked Mrs C to provide photos so that it didnt cause any delay in dealing with 
her claim by having her car physically inspected by an approved  repairer. So I cant criticise 
Covea for relying  on photos in order to settle  Mrs Cs claim sooner for her. 
Three days later an engineer had decided a market value for Mrs Cs car. Covea called 
Mrs C and left messages over the next week on a number of occasions  - but wasnt  able to 
speak to her. It also wrote  to Mrs C. As it didnt  hear from Mrs C, Covea made arrangements  
for the hire car to be returned. 
Mrs C called Covea on 4 October 2018.  She said she had left messages for the agent at 
Covea. Mrs C said she hadnt received any update from Covea. Unfortunately Covea  
couldnt trace any contact  from Mrs C. But it was able to listen  to call recordings which 
showed it had left messages for Mrs C. And it checked it had written  to Mrs Cs home  
address.
Covea accepts it could  have arranged for Mrs Cs car to be collected sooner by a salvage 
agent. It sent Mrs C a gift hamper and apologised for this delay.  I think  this was reasonable.
Ref: DRN83806243Overall I think  Covea  dealt with Mrs Cs claim promptly. It was in a position to confirm a total 
loss settlement to her five days after the incident.  As Mrs C was provided with a hire car until 
8 October 2018  even though her car wasnt repairable  I think  Covea  acted reasonably. 
So Im not asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8380624