K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (t/a Halifax) reported  incorrect information to credit 
reference agencies  about his credit  card account and took longer than it shouldve to correct 
this.
background
In June 2018 some transactions  were  charged to Mr Hs credit card that he didnt make.  He 
contacted Halifax  to report these as fraudulent. It said the transactions  would  be refunded 
straight away. Most of the transactions were. One transaction however  was not immediately 
refunded. This led to there being  an outstanding  balance on the account. As Mr H had 
understood all of the transactions  would be refunded, no payment was made  to the account.  
This resulted in a missed  payment and information  being reported to credit  reference 
agencies about  this.
Mr H contacted Halifax about this again  in September 2018.  Halifax refunded the remaining 
disputed transaction  as well as interest  applied to the balance. It also said it would arrange  
to remove any adverse information reported to credit  reference agencies and paid Mr H £50 
to cover the inconvenience  caused and call costs.
In November 2018, Mr H got back in touch  with Halifax  as hed noticed his credit  file had not 
been updated. Mr H said the error had led to his credit  score reducing. He says he and his 
partner were about to apply for a mortgage  and had worked hard to build their credit  scores 
in advance of this. He was also concerned about  the potential  ongoing future  impact  of the 
information. Halifax apologised  and arranged for the information to be updated straight 
away. It also offered Mr H another £100  for the inconvenience caused and to provide a letter  
for Mr H to give to his mortgage  lender  to confirm the adverse information  was not his fault.
Mr H didnt accept this offer and felt it didnt reflect the upset these actions had caused.  He 
asked our service to look into the complaint.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Hs complaint. She agreed there  had been an error by Halifax 
but as Mr H had not applied  for a mortgage  or suffered a loss thought  that what Halifax  had 
offered was fair. Mr H did not agree. So as a result  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Halifax has accepted  that the disputed transactions were not made by Mr H. And they have 
now been refunded. I can see there was no other activity on the account  around this time. 
So the outstanding balance, and in turn the missed  payment, came about as a result of the 
delay in refunding one of the transactions. Halifax has acknowledged  it made  a mistake in 
not refunding  all of the transactions and by reporting  a late payment.  It has shown that the 
information it is reporting to credit  reference  agencies no longer  shows a missing  or late 
payment in respect of this. It has also acknowledged there was a delay in updating this 
information and that this shouldve been done sooner than it was.
Ref: DRN88249332So what  is left for me to decide is if the offer, totalling £150, made by Halifax  for the distress 
caused and call costs  is fair.
I appreciate that it wouldve been  frustrating for Mr H that this was not resolved when he first 
notified Halifax about the transactions. And I also understand why the information recorded 
with credit reference agencies wouldve been  concerning as he was hoping to apply for a 
mortgage. And I accept  there have been  mistakes by Halifax. But our role is to put people  
back in the position they wouldve  been in had an error not occurred  which  I think Halifax 
has now done. As Ive said Halifax has shown that the information being reported  to credit 
reference agencies  has now been corrected. And Mr H hadnt applied  for a mortgage  before 
this happened. So I cant see that he has suffered  a loss as a result of the error. 
Mr H has said he is concerned how the information  previously recorded might  impact him 
moving forward. But as the adverse information has been removed I cant see how it would. 
And Halifax has confirmed in its final response that this was not Mr Hs fault and offered to 
provide another letter if necessary. I dont think I can reasonably ask Halifax  to do anything  
more in respect of something that hasnt  happened, and indeed seems  unlikely to.
So while I can see that Mr H feels strongly  about this I think Halifaxs  total offer, in respect of 
the trouble and upset caused by the delays in refunding the transaction and rectifying his 
credit file, is fair. And I dont think it would be reasonable to ask it to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I think the offer made by Bank of Scotland  Plc (t/a Halifax)  
to pay a total of £150 compensation and provide a letter  confirming its error  if required  is 
fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8824933