K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund him for spending on his credit card 
account, which Mr M says he didnt carry out. He wants  HSBC to refund him the money.
background
The details of whats said to have happened  here are well-known to both Mr M and HSBC. 
So I dont  need  to repeat  them in any great  length  and trust both parties will accept the 
following as a brief summary:
Mr M noted some  unusual activity  on his credit card account  so he contacted HSBC 
and confirmed  he hadnt used his card for the five transactions in question;
The bank put a stop on his credit card and looked  into things for Mr M;
HSBC said it wouldnt refund the money because:
oits records showed that a mobile  phone registered to Mr Ms account had been used 
to spend the money   this same  phone had been used  to make genuine transactions  
in the past;
oMr Ms online banking (and other  phone  use) was only accessed using fingerprint ID;
othe transactions had been  made through the same  internet connection  (IP address) 
as used by Mr M on previous occasions;
oMr M had told the bank hed kept his card secure   nobody else had access  to it as it 
was always in his pocket or under  his pillow when he was asleep;
oUnusually, there were no further  attempts  to use Mr Ms account after he reported the 
problems; in other words  how would  the fraudster know to stop using the account 
details?
In summary, HSBC  thought Mr M had either carried out the spending himself or 
authorised somebody else to do so.
Mr M wasnt happy with HSBCs  response. So he contacted us and one of our investigators 
looked into things  for him.
Our investigator agreed with HSBC. He didnt think the bank should refund Mr M for the 
spending on his account. In coming to this conclusion, the investigator considered the 
requirements of the Payment Services Regulations  2017 (the PSRs),  as these set out when 
a bank can hold a customer responsible for spending on their account.
The investigator was able to confirm two of the five transactions had been refunded by the 
retailers in question. And Mr M had been sent a text message  by HSBC about a (further) 
suspicious transaction  to which  hed responded saying  he hadnt carried  it out.
A further  message was sent asking Mr M to contact  the bank, but he didnt  do so until a 
couple of days  later (when he says he noticed the unusual activity on his account). Both 
these messages were  sent to the mobile phone number used to carry out the disputed 
spending.
Ref: DRN86752382The investigator noted Mr M had said his mobile phone had been  returned to his employers  
IT department for a couple of days around  this time  although he hadnt mentioned  this to 
HSBC initially. Mr M thought somebody in that IT department could have used  his phone to 
carry out the spending.
The investigator didnt  think this was likely. HSBCs records showed Mr Ms online  banking 
had been accessed through fingerprint ID. That wouldnt  be possible without Mr M being 
there. And it would be strange for a fraudster to respond to a text message to tell the bank  
one particular attempted purchase wasnt genuine.
But the investigator did confirm some  information HSBC first gave Mr M wasnt  correct. The 
bank had indicated  some of the goods purchased were due to be delivered to Mr Ms 
address. This wasnt the case.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators view.  In summary, he was adamant he hadnt 
carried out the spending and didnt think HSBCs records  supported  what was being  said. 
After a number of exchanges between  the investigator and Mr M, the investigator said he still 
wasnt persuaded by what  Mr M had said. So his complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to both us and HSBC. And thats not surprising. After  allowing for the two refunds, over 
£1,000 has been spent  using Mr Ms credit card. Thats a large amount of money.  So Mr Ms 
bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr M that I agree with the investigator.  I dont think HSBC has to 
refund the money to Mr M.
Indeed, theres  very little I can add to what the investigators already said to Mr M. I think  the 
investigator set out the position  quite  thoroughly  and clearly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mr M that Ive considered his complaint  afresh  and 
Ill touch on the main issues that lead me to come to that same conclusion. That means 
I may not cover every item Mr M has raised  with us in this formal decision.  But I have 
considered everything  hes said to satisfy myself  about the right outcome.
Ive looked at the banks  records in terms of the mobile phone  used to carry out the spending 
on his credit card. This appears to be the same  device as Mr M used to make genuine 
transactions before the ones that are being  disputed.
Mr Ms said that mobile phone may well have been  with his (now former) employers IT 
department at the time for repair. But that wouldnt fit with his online banking being accessed  
using fingerprint  ID  as shown in HSBCs  records. It would also mean the person in the IT 
department would have had to know Mr Ms credit card details (as the security number on 
the back of the card was needed).
Ref: DRN86752383And in one of the call recordings  Ive listened to, Mr M tells the bank that he responded to a 
text message from HSBC  about a (further) suspicious transaction  around  this time. The 
same IP address Mr M had used previously  was used when placing the orders  with the 
retailers  and after the disputed spending.  When I combine all this information,  its hard to 
see the phone in question was anywhere other  than with Mr M.
Mr Ms said his credit  card was with him at all times. Its good that he takes great care of it. 
But it does  mean  that its very hard to see how anybody  other  than Mr M could  have carried 
out the spending  particularly when combined  with the information about the mobile phone.
It does seem odd that if an unknown  third party had got access  to Mr Ms phone together 
with the necessary credit card information that the spending didnt carry on after Mr M 
contacted HSBC. I dont  know  how a fraudster  would know to stop using the card. Id expect 
them to carry on until the card was declined because the credit limit was reached  or it had 
been cancelled  by the bank.
I do understand Mr Ms frustration at being  given wrong information by HSBC about the 
ordering and delivery arrangements  of the items in the early stages of its investigation. That 
wont have helped matters. But that doesnt  change the outcome. And the correct  position 
has now been established.
Im as satisfied as I can be it was Mr M that used his credit  card.  I realise thats a difficult  
message to give. But its where the available evidence leads me. The only other possible 
explanation would be that he allowed somebody very close  to him to carry out the spending. 
Either way, HSBC can hold him responsible for the transactions.
And, like the investigator, Ive considered the PSRs and the guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in reaching this conclusion.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. He may want  to take the matter further 
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve  his 
dispute with HSBC informally, can do for Mr M. Im sorry we cant help him any further on 
this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8675238