K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about Tesco Underwriting  Limiteds handling  of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to Tesco  includes their agents.
background
Mr Ks car insurance policy with Tesco renewed at the beginning of April 2016.  He was the 
policyholder and his wife was a named driver.
On 4 April 2016,  Mr Ks wife was driving  when she was involved in an incident that resulted 
in a cyclist making a claim against Mr Ks policy. The cyclist said he was hit and knocked to 
the ground by Mr Ks car. Mr K said the cyclists claim was false and Tesco shouldnt pay it. 
Mr Ks wife was prosecuted over the incident  for driving without due care and attention. Her 
trial was set for mid-January 2017. Mr K said he was confident his wife would be acquitted 
and asked Tesco to investigate the claim and to wait until after the trial before they made a 
decision on liability. Tesco  assured Mr K they would  wait until after his wifes trial to decide. 
But around a week before the trial, Tesco settled the cyclists claim. Mr Ks wife was found 
not guilty after her trial.
Mr K complained when  he found out Tesco had settled the cyclists claim. Tesco recorded 
the incident as a fault claim on Mr Ks policy and his no claims bonus (NCB) was affected as 
a result.  Mr Ks renewal premiums also increased  in subsequent years. 
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mr Ks complaint.  They apologised for settling the cyclists claim before 
Mr Ks wifes trial. But they said even if they waited until after the trial, the outcome wouldnt 
have been any different  and they would have  still settled the claim. Mr K didn't think that was 
fair, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. 
She felt that Tesco hadnt investigated  the claim reasonably. But she said she thought  even 
if Tesco had, the outcome  would have still been  the same. She suggested that Tesco  should  
pay Mr K £250 compensation for how they dealt with the matter. As Mr K didnt agree with 
our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 16 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Under the policy, Tesco have the discretion to settle  claims as they feel appropriate 
without the need to get Mr Ks agreement. But I expect them  to exercise  that 
discretion in a fair and reasonable way. Especially  given a decision to accept liability 
has serious consequences for Mr K for years to come.
While Ive seen that Tesco  got an investigator to look into the claim and there was a 
witness who said Mr Ks wife was responsible for the accident, Im not satisfied that 
Tescos actions were fair and reasonable. For the following  reasons, I feel that 
Tescos handling  of the claim; their investigation;  and decision to settle the claim 
wasnt reasonable: 
Ref: DRN86930352Tesco told Mr K that liability could only be decided by a trial in a civil court. So 
they gave Mr K a reasonable expectation  that they would go to court  on Mr Ks 
behalf to defend the cyclists allegations.
Tesco assured  Mr K that they wouldnt make a decision on liability  or settle the 
cyclists claim until after the conclusion  of Mr Ks wifes criminal trial. Mr K 
therefore had a reasonable expectation  that Tesco  would  honour  that assurance.  
More importantly, once the trial concluded Tesco could  have obtained a copy  of 
the criminal courts  notes of the trial. Mr K, who was present at the trial, said that 
his wife was acquitted.  He said the witness for the cyclist didnt attend the trial; 
the cyclists evidence  was inconsistent; and that the judge said the cyclist wasnt  
reliable. Im aware that the criminal  trial was to establish whether or not Mr Ks 
wife drove without due care and attention. Im also aware that the standard of 
proof in criminal cases is higher than civil cases.  But a judge  saying the cyclist 
was not reliable  and dismissing his evidence is significant. Had Tesco waited  
until the conclusion  of the trial and obtained  the courts notes, I think that 
information could  have been  used  to Mr Ks advantage. Tesco  could have used 
the judges comments about  the cyclist and his inconsistent evidence in an 
attempt to convince the cyclists  solicitor  to withdraw  the claim.  And I understand 
if the liability matter  did go to court, the cyclist could have been questioned  about 
what happened during the criminal  trial, such as his evidence  that was found to 
be inconsistent and that he was said to be unreliable.
Tesco said they would get the police report of the incident. The police  report 
could have contained important information  that might have supported  Mr Ks 
case that could  have been  used  to convince the cyclists  solicitor to withdraw his 
claim. Tesco were told the police  would only give their report  once Mr Ks wifes 
trial had concluded.  So I think Tesco should  have  waited  and obtained the police 
report, but they didnt.
I understand Tesco paid the cyclist around  £20,000 to settle his claim. And I 
understand they did so without obtaining  a medical report  about the cyclists 
alleged significant physical and psychological injuries. This is something I would 
have expected Tesco to obtain  before  settling  to ensure the injuries claimed  were  
consistent with the alleged  accident. Especially given Tesco  had evidence  that 
put into question  the cyclists credibility.
Tescos file notes say that during  their investigation they gathered  evidence  that 
directly contradicted the cyclists  claim and which discredited him. That evidence 
could have been used to challenge the cyclist either  through  his solicitor  with the 
aim of getting the cyclist to withdraw  his claim, or if the matter went to court to 
show the cyclist was being dishonest.
Given the complex and important  issues  detailed  above and the fact that Tesco  
paid a significant amount of money  to settle the cyclists claim, I think it would 
have been reasonable  for Tesco  to have at least obtained a legal opinion from a 
solicitor as to the prospects of successfully defending the cyclists claim. But I 
understand they didnt do that.
I dont think Tesco were  reasonable  in settling when they did without first carrying  out 
a proper investigation. Its difficult to say what the outcome would have been  had the 
matter gone to court. But there  is a possibility that had Tesco  dealt with the claim 
reasonably Mr K might have been successful. So I dont think its fair for Mr K to be 
affected in the way he has been.
Ref: DRN86930353Given the above, I dont think Tesco have dealt  with Mr K reasonably. I therefore 
intend to uphold this complaint. I intend  to require Tesco to amend the fault claim 
marker against Mr K on all internal and external databases to non-fault.  Tesco  should 
provide Mr K a letter confirming that incident  has been amended to a non-fault claim. 
Tesco should also award Mr K a NCB  year for the policy year in which  the accident 
happened, provided there were no other claims during that policy  year. Tesco  should  
also recalculate all of Mr Ks subsequent premiums for the renewals with Tesco  on 
the basis of him having a non-fault claim and his NCB years  being intact. If that 
results in a refund Tesco should also pay simple interest at 8% a year on any refund  
they make  from the dates  Mr K paid his increased premiums until the date of the 
refund. Given this matter  has been ongoing for almost four years and has been a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr K, I also intend to require Tesco  to pay 
him £500 compensation to address that. In reaching this figure  of compensation, I 
have taken into consideration  the fact that Tesco paid Mr Ks wifes solicitors  
defence fee of £500.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Tesco didnt comment  on my 
provisional decision. Mr K said.
Following the April 2016 incident,  he took out policies with other  insurers in 2017, 
2018 and 2019,  for a number of cars.  His premiums for those policies increased due 
to the fact that he wrongly had a fault claim on his record  and because he wasnt 
awarded a NCB year for the policy year in which the incident took place.
Tesco refused  to provide him a solicitor or legal advice despite him having  legal 
cover under  his policy. As a result  he had to use his own means and spend his own 
time to get legal advice and representation for his wifes defence.  That meant he had 
to take unpaid time off work and pay for child care. His wife was so traumatised by 
the incident that she resigned from her job. A lot of trouble could have been avoided  
if Tesco provided legal  assistance that was included under  his policy.
He therefore  thinks £5,000 compensation is reasonable to address the distress and 
inconvenience he and his family  suffered.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But Id like to address the issues Mr K has raised.
I understand that Mr K used other insurers after his policy with Tesco came to an end in April 
2017. And that his premiums for those subsequent policies  increased. I dont have the 
information for those  policies so I cant say if they were  like-for-like with the policy Mr K had 
with Tesco. And I havent seen  how those  insurers calculated Mr Ks premiums. But I think it 
is likely  that Mr K having a fault claim on his policy and not gaining  an NCB year for the 
policy he had with Tesco affected the cost of his subsequent premiums. As I explained  in my 
provisional decision, Im asking Tesco  to amend all the records to change the fault claim on 
Mr Ks driving history  to a non-fault claim. And for them to award him a NCB year for the 
policy he had with Tesco. Im also asking Tesco to provide Mr K with a letter  confirming 
thats been done. Mr K can then show that letter  to his subsequent insurers  and ask them  to 
retrospectively recalculate his premiums  on the basis he had a non-fault  claim and an extra  
years NCB. If as a result of those recalculations Mr Ks premiums  are lower than what  he 
paid, then I would expect Mr K to be given refunds. If Mr K isnt happy  with how those 
insurers deal with his request to retrospectively recalculate his premiums,  then he can raise 
Ref: DRN86930354complaints with them. And if he remains dissatisfied he can ask our service to look into 
them.
Mr K has said that Tesco refused to provide him a solicitor  or legal advice despite him 
having legal  cover under his policy. He said he made multiple  requests that were turned  
down. Mr Ks policy said Tesco will pay solicitors fees for representation at any 
magistrates court The policy didnt  say Tesco had to provide Mr K with a solicitor or legal  
advice. And when Tesco found  out that Mr K had arranged for a solicitor  to represent his 
wife at her magistrates court trial, Tesco  offered  to pay the solicitors fees, which I think was 
reasonable and in line with the policy terms. But I dont think they were required to provide a 
solicitor or legal advice  under the policy.
Finally, Mr K feels that Tesco should pay him £5,000 compensation. It might  help if I explain 
that our service awards  compensation where we feel that a business errors or omissions 
have caused an individual  to suffer a financial loss or significant distress  and inconvenience.  
But we dont  award punitive compensation to punish  a business. And while  I agree that 
Tesco didnt  deal with Mr K reasonably which caused distress and inconvenience, I think the 
prosecution of Mr Ks wife caused  the most  significant distress to both Mr K and his wife. But 
prosecuting Mr Ks wife was a decision taken by the police and the Crown Prosecution  
Service, not Tesco. So, having thought about  it carefully, I think  £500 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances as its in line with awards we make in other cases of similar 
seriousness. Im also mindful  of the fact that Tesco paid Mr Ks wifes solicitors fee of £500  
for her representation at the magistrates  court, which I think  was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco  Underwriting 
Limited to:
Amend all internal  and external records and databases to change the fault claim  to 
non-fault against Mr K.
Award Mr K a no claims bonus  (NCB) year for the policy year in which  the accident 
happened.
Provide Mr K a letter explaining that all records have been amended to show the 
April 2016 incident was non-fault and that a NCB year for that policy  year has been  
awarded.
Pay Mr K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr K has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Tesco consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr K how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8693035