K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2007  to protect a 
hire purchase agreement.  Mr D says Black Horse Limited mis-sold him the PPI. 
The policy covered Mr D for PPI (accident, sickness and unemployment)  and for life and 
critical illness cover. Mr D has only complained  about the PPI element, so in this decision I 
have not considered the life and critical illness elements of the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr Ds complaint is that he was led to believe  he had to take out the PPI in order  to secure 
the borrowing  and he didnt know it was optional. But Ive seen a copy  of the hire purchase  
agreement Mr D saw and signed. In this PPI is described as Optional  Payment  Protection  
Plan  and I can see that this section of the agreement hasnt been completed so Mr D hadnt  
agreed to the policy at the time the agreement was signed. The agreement  was also signed 
by a Black  Horse representative  so I think Mr D wouldve known the PPI was optional  and 
that he had been accepted for the credit without  taking out the PPI. 
The PPI was sold over the phone, but unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed 
there is no call recording  for me to listen to. So I cant say exactly what was discussed at the 
time. But Black Horse has provided a copy of a call script it says wouldve been  used at the 
time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt this. This script shows that the sales person 
wouldve been required  to present  the PPI as optional and obtain Mr Ds consent  to add it to 
his account. Ive also seen a copy of a Demands and Needs document  which recorded 
Mr Ds responses  to questions about his circumstances at the time and suggests  he agreed 
to the policy.
So overall I think its likely Black Horse  made  it clear  Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr D has also complained  that he didnt need  the policy as he was entitled to a generous 
level of sick pay from his employer and had sufficient savings to keep  up his repayments.  
Mr D also told us he couldve relied  on his partners income for support, but while  Im sure 
his partner wouldve  wanted to support him, help from others cant always  be guaranteed  as 
their circumstances can also change. Upon a successful accident and sickness  claim the 
PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 24 months,  and for a successful unemployment  claim up to 
12 months. This wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ds sick pay or other  means  so these 
funds couldve been used for other expenses. And had Mr D lost his job or been  suddenly 
Ref: DRN83657462unable to work he is likely to have had other expenses to maintain as well. So I dont think 
Mr Ds existing means meant the policy was unsuitable for him  and he couldve  cancelled 
this policy  at any time without penalty if his circumstances  had changed at any time. 
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But for all the reasons I think the policy was suitable for him I also think  it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. And it looks  like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Black Horse doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Black Horse  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Black Horse  didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Black  Horse should  also pay back to Mr D any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Black Horse  should pay back to Mr D the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Black  Horse should also pay 
Mr D 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8365746