K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of Mrs Gs estate that Lloyds Bank PLC made various  mistakes  
when dealing with her trust between 2015 and her death.
background
Mrs G and Lloyds were  named as joint co-trustees of Mr Gs trust in 1972. Mr A was granted 
power of attorney for Mrs G in 2008.  On 2 June  2015, after Mrs G was diagnosed with 
advanced Alzheimers, Mr A wrote  to Lloyds asking it to forward her £5,000. It responded, 
explaining why it could not do this. Mrs G died in 2017.
Mr A complained that Lloyds had done nothing as a trustee and should refund all the fees it 
had taken over the years.  Specifically, he said the terms of the trust allowed  it to act as 
Trust Corporation following Mrs Gs diagnosis.
Lloyds rejected his complaint, saying that it could not have acted  on his sole instruction i.e. 
without a co-trustees  permission.
An investigator at this service considered the provisions of the 1925 Trustee act, concluding 
that  for various reasons  Lloyds did not have the power to act unilaterally or accept 
instructions from Mr A. She also felt that Lloyds acted reasonably in deciding not to apply to 
the Court  for permission  to appoint a new trustee,  mainly because of the time this would 
take, and the financial  cost.
She didnt  accept that Lloyds actions were motivated  by financial considerations and said 
she didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to conclude  that the estate had suffered as a 
result of any potential failures  by Lloyds.
Mr A did not agree,  and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. In my view she 
thoroughly invested  this complex legal/regulatory issue and rightly  concluded  that Lloyds had 
not behaved unreasonably.
I recognise that this was a very unfortunate situation  and that common sense  dictates that it 
ought to have been possible for Lloyds to do something to try and ensure this money could 
be paid. But the rules surrounding trusts, trustees  and any replacements  are designed to 
provide clear  safeguards and protection for beneficiaries and other parties.  Unfortunately  
there is not any flexibility in situations such as these, nor quick or inexpensive remedies. 
From my limited experience of occasions where court  action has been required in order to 
alter a trust,  this is invariably an expensive and time-consuming process. I dont think this 
situation warranted Lloyds going  down this route.
Ref: DRN84497222So I cannot fairly conclude that Lloyds did something wrong.  Further,  while I acknowledge  
that the release of £5,000 may well have benefitted  Mrs G in various  ways,  and the absence  
of it may have caused some trouble and upset, Ive seen no evidence that this created her or 
her estate a financial loss. 
This service can instruct a business to pay a complainant a sum in lieu of any trouble and 
upset where it concludes that this was the business  fault. But this can only be paid to the 
person affected,  in this case Mrs G, not to a representative or beneficiary of their estate.  So 
even if I felt Lloyds  should  have acted  differently, I could not instruct it to pay compensation 
to Mrs Gs estate.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A on behalf  of 
Mrs Gs estate to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8449722