K821x#15complaint
Miss J says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about twenty-three high-cost short term credit  loans that Sunny provided  to           
Miss J from February 2016 onwards. Miss Js last loan was provided  in February 2018. 
When Miss Js complaint was referred  to us, Sunny  agreed that shouldnt  have provided 
loans 11 to 23 to Miss J.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Js case  and didnt think that this went  far enough as he also 
thought that Miss J shouldnt have been  provided with loans 3 to 10 as well as loans 11 to 
20. Sunny  didnt  agree in full. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss J could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss J, I think  that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss J was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided her with loan three.  
Ref: DRN86908252I say this because  by this stage, Miss J already owed  Sunny a significant amount of money  
as a result  of having two outstanding loans. And this third loan was taken shortly after the 
second one. In my view,  this ought  to have shown Sunny that Miss J was struggling  to 
manage her money. Sunny continued lending to Miss J even when  this pattern was repeated 
and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were 
more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss J had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss J paid on loans 3 to 23;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Js credit file as a result  of loans 3 
to 5.
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans 6 to 
23 on Miss Js credit  file is likely to be adverse. So all reference  to these loans should 
be removed from Miss Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss J complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Miss J compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8690825