K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains the phone he acquired  through a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica 
UK Limited  (O2) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  it and obtain  a full refund.
background 
Mr G tells us in June 2016  he took out a loan, over an initial period  of two years, to purchase 
a mobile phone from O2. He says it turned out the phone  was faulty and so he had it 
replaced. He says several replacement phones also proved faulty and he ended  up paying 
off the agreement early  and buying a different model of phone. Mr G also says the original 
phone he was sold was misrepresented as it wasnt waterproof.
O2 told us it had provided Mr G with replacement phones - even though  hed not sent in the 
faulty phones  for repair and assessment.  It said hed not initially replied to the latest offer of 
a replacement. And hed then paid off the agreement  and changed  phones. And when Mr G 
took up his earlier complaint it no longer stocked  the refurbished  model it had intended to 
send. So it offered to credit his account with £100  as this was the recycle  value. It later said 
when Mr G had wanted to recycle the latest replacement, after hed upgraded, it had spotted 
an issue with the charging port and returned the phone to him. It considered  the damage had 
been caused by the customer. But O2 said it was prepared  to stand by the goodwill offer to 
credit Mr Gs account with £100.
Our adjudicator has issued two opinions. In the first he recommended Mr G should have his 
payments returned  apart from the first five months  when  the phone  worked.  But following a 
response, and further information,  from O2 he changed his recommendation. He said as O2 
had identified a fault with the charging port he thought  this would have been picked up 
earlier if it had been present at the point  of sale. So he thought  O2s offer was fair.
Mr G didnt agree and said he wasnt aware  of a fault with the charging  port. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G has experienced a number  of problems with the original  phone  and the 
replacement phones hes had through this agreement. I can understand his annoyance and 
frustration.
Mr G bought the original  phone  through  a fixed-sum loan agreement. Under present 
legislation O2 is responsible for the item supplied being of satisfactory  quality. And whilst I 
dont apply the law directly I do take it into account. So if I thought  the phone wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect  O2 to do something  about it.
And from the evidence  Ive seen O2 did replace items which Mr G reported  as faulty. The 
first phone was purchased in June 2016  and this was replaced  in December 2016. This 
phone was also replaced, in or around  April 2017,  before Mr G decided  to pay off the loan 
early and change  to a different model. This left him with the final replacement  phone which I 
understand he later tried to recycle. But this was returned to him when O2 identified  the 
charging port fault. 
Ref: DRN87353962Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I have to decide what  I think is the 
most likely explanation for whats happened.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a consumer has the right,  in certain  circumstances, to 
have faulty items replaced or repaired.  And Mr G opted in this case to have items replaced. 
He says hes returned all the phones - except the latest replacement. So thats the only 
phone I need  to consider.
Mr G has said he doesnt recognise  the fault with the charging port and thinks  the issue was 
with the speaker and the music jack socket. And Im prepared to accept it seems  likely hed 
have noticed a fault with the charging  port if it had prevented him from using the phone.
But I dont think the specific nature  of the fault affects my decision. The major  issue  is that 
Ive not been provided with any persuasive  evidence that this phone  was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  There  is no independent evidence of what,  if any, fault is affecting the 
phone. And in the absence of any such evidence it would  not be fair and reasonable to find 
O2 responsible.
Ive also seen no persuasive evidence that Mr G was ever offered a waterproof  phone so I 
cant say the phone supplied through the agreement was misrepresented.
In summary,  I do not think there is sufficient evidence to say the final replacement  phone -
with which  Mr G was supplied through the finance agreement - was not of satisfactory 
quality. So it would not be fair and reasonable to say O2 has done  anything wrong in 
refusing to refund the cost of that item.
I accept Mr G has had the inconvenience of having  to have two phones  replaced. But as O2 
has indicated it is willing to honour the offer to credit his account  with £100 that seems to me 
to be a fair and reasonable  resolution  of this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint but only in part.
Im ordering  Telefonica UK Limited to credit  Mr Gs account with £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8735396