K822xyour complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited provided  him with inconsistent, and at 
times incorrect, information about the calculation of a transfer value for pension benefits  that 
he held.
background
Mr D held pension benefits with Aviva. He contributed to that pension  plan by making regular  
monthly payments.  In December 2017  he decided,  after taking the appropriate advice, to 
transfer those pension savings to another  provider. So he asked Aviva to calculate  the value 
of that transfer  and expected to be provided  with details of the calculation Aviva  had 
performed.
Mr Ds pension benefits were complex.  His pension plan provided him with a guaranteed 
annuity amount.  This was made up of benefits  resulting from the monthly  contributions he 
had made,  and benefits arising from bonuses that had been  added by Aviva over the years.  
When added  together  these would provide Mr D with an annual annuity income from age 70.
But the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy also provided some guidance for Aviva on how 
to calculate the value  of Mr Ds benefits  if he wanted  to take them before he reached 
70 years  of age, or if he wanted to take them in an alternative form. And it is these terms that 
Aviva needed to take into account when calculating the transfer value of Mr Ds benefits in 
December 2017.
Aviva appears to have  provided Mr D with details of the transfer value it had calculated 
relatively promptly. But Mr D asked for further information about  the basis  of that calculation  
so he could ensure  its accuracy. And that appears to be when the problems that underlie  this 
complaint first started.  
The letter that Aviva  sent to Mr D with more  details of the calculation contained a number of 
inaccuracies. Later Aviva explained to Mr D that these were typing errors, though Mr D 
thinks they should better have been  described  as transcription errors. But in subsequent 
letters Aviva  confirmed to Mr D that the correct details had been  used in the original 
calculations it performed and that the transfer  value was an accurate reflection  of his 
benefits.
But those  letters also made Mr D aware  of another part of the calculation that caused him 
concern. Mr D had been sent a statement of his benefits showing the value of his pension  
benefits as at the start of December. But the pension amount that Aviva used in its 
calculations was lower.  Aviva explained  that this was because the December statement 
assumed that Mr D would  continue  making  his regular monthly  contributions until the year 
end. And since Mr D was looking to transfer his benefits before all those contributions had 
been paid, it needed to reduce the amount of pension he was entitled to receive.
Mr D complained to Aviva  about the information hed been given about  the calculation  of the 
transfer value.  Aviva  accepted that there was a lack of clarity  and consistency in that 
information. So it offered Mr D £100 to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused. But 
Aviva reiterated that the calculations it had performed  to reach the transfer value it had paid 
had been correct. Aviva did however note that it couldnt provide Mr D with all the details of 
these calculations for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
Ref: DRN86758202Mr D didnt accept the offer that Aviva  had made  to him. So he brought  his complaint to this 
Service. Our adjudicator  asked Aviva to independently recalculate the transfer  value of 
Mr Ds benefits. Aviva confirmed this had been  done and reached the same answer as the 
original calculations. But our adjudicator  thought that a payment  of £350 would better reflect  
the distress and inconvenience  that Mr D had been caused. Aviva accepted that 
recommendation.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
It is clear that Mr D has invested a great deal of effort  into understanding  the benefits that he 
was due from his pension with Aviva, and the methodology that Aviva  needed  to use to 
calculate an equivalent transfer  value  for those benefits. And I can understand his frustration 
that some  of the information he needs is not publically available  and so he needed to trust 
what he was being told by Aviva. But that trust was undermined at an early stage of Mr Ds 
discussions with Aviva when he was provided with information that he could quickly  establish 
was incorrect. So I can understand why he would  have  little confidence that Aviva  had 
performed its calculations accurately.
But Aviva assured Mr D that its calculations  had been performed based on the correct  
information. And after our adjudicator asked Aviva  to perform a further  independent 
calculation Aviva confirmed once more that the original calculation  had been correct. So 
I dont think there are any grounds here for me to question the calculation that Aviva 
performed. I think it is reasonable to conclude that the value Aviva transferred to Mr Ds new 
pension provider was a fair and accurate reflection  of the pension  benefits he held.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  Aviva has been sending to Mr D about his pension 
benefits. I can see that those statements make it clear  that they are based  on the 
assumption that the regular monthly  contributions Mr D was making would continue until the 
end of the plan year. Aviva says that in Mr Ds case each of those plan years  completed in 
May. 
So, given that Mr D was looking to transfer  his benefits around December, I think it 
reasonable for Aviva to take account of the fact he wouldnt pay the last few contributions  of 
that annual period. And so the guaranteed value of his pension annuity  would need to be 
reduced which in turn would reduce the transfer value of those benefits.  So I dont think 
Aviva was wrong to make that adjustment when  calculating  the transfer value for Mr D.
Ref: DRN86758203I dont think that Mr D made his transfer  request thinking that he would experience concerns 
over Avivas  calculations. But I also dont think it was unreasonable  for him to ask Aviva  for 
some more information about the basis of those  calculations. And when the information  
Aviva gave him was clearly incorrect it seems likely that he would have experienced a 
degree of trouble and upset. Having thought carefully about the level of that trouble and 
upset I have concluded that the payment recommended by our adjudicator is reasonable. So 
I require Aviva to pay Mr D the sum of £350  in that regard.
I appreciate how unsettling the transfer process  has been for Mr D. But I havent seen 
anything that makes me reasonably conclude  that Aviva incorrectly  calculated  the transfer 
value of Mr Ds benefits. It follows that I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint against Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited. But I direct Aviva  to pay the sum of £350  that it has agreed to pay to Mr D in respect 
of the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8675820