K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc, trading as Post Office  Money, wont  refund to 
her the money  that she paid for some patio doors. Her husband is also involved  with her 
complaint. 
background 
Mrs W used her Post Office Money credit card in March 2018  to pay £1,789  to a supplier for 
some doors in connection with some building works. The supplier had already supplied 
some other doors for the building works  and these doors were to match them. But Mrs Ws 
husband mistakenly ordered matching patio  doors   and not the matching French  doors  that 
were wanted. The doors  that were ordered were manufactured by the supplier to match  the 
doors that it had previously supplied  as they were the same colour and had a matching 
handle  but they were a different type of door.
When the doors were  delivered, Mrs W saw that they were different to what  was wanted  so 
she complained  to the supplier and she then claimed a refund  from Post Office Money under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. It replied to her complaint and asked her for 
more information   but she didnt  receive its letter and contacted it for updates about her 
complaint. She wasnt told that it had already written to her and that it was waiting  for further  
information from her  and her complaint  was passed to the wrong team  for investigation. As 
a result of that Mrs W didnt receive  a final response letter  from Post Office Money until 
about four months after shed contacted it. It apologised for that and offered her £250 
compensation. But it didnt uphold her claim for a refund of the money that shed paid for the 
doors.
She wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  The investigator  
recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mrs W and her husband 
clearly intended  to order the same type of door,  not just the same style, and that the supplier 
should have picked up on that. So he recommended that Post Office Money should pay 
Mrs W £250 for the poor service that she had received and reconstruct  her card account 
from when the transaction was applied to the card.
Post Office  Money has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. It says,  
in summary and amongst other things, that:
Mrs Ws husband had asked for matching aluminium patio  doors;
a clear quotation was provided stating the colour, the door type and the price  and 
Mrs Ws husband accepted it;
the goods were  not faulty or not as described  and were  provided exactly as 
described in the quotation;
the suppliers website describes the differences between patio doors and French  
doors so that information was available to Mrs Ws husband  and he would have  seen 
a different price  to the doors that hed ordered  before;
Mr Ws husband made a mistake in ordering the doors and then realised he could not 
return them but when  spending over £1,000 on doors that were  to be manufactured  
and knowing that they couldnt  be returned  there has to be some duty of care on his 
behalf to ensure that the information  provided  on the quotation was exactly  what  he 
wanted to purchase before going ahead with it; and 
whilst  the supplier  could have been more  accommodating, it has not breached the 
contract or misrepresented the doors  so it has no liability under section 75. 
Ref: DRN85792092Mrs W has provided detailed comments on Post Office Moneys response to the 
investigators recommendations.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W 
and to Post Office  Money  on 27 March 2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain  circumstances,  section  75 gives a consumer an equal  right to claim 
against the supplier  of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  To be able to uphold  Mrs Ws 
complaint about  Post Office  Money, I must be satisfied  that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the doors and that Post Office 
Moneys response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of Mrs Ws claim under section 75 as only a court  would be 
able to do that.
Mrs Ws husband ordered some  matching patio doors but he wanted to order 
French doors which were the same  as the ones that the supplier  had previously 
supplied  not patio doors. The supplier provided him with a quote for aluminium 
inline patio doors (which  was the same finish as used on the doors that it had 
previously supplied  so it was a match) and the quote was accepted by Mrs Ws 
husband. 
The doors were then manufactured  as set out in the quote and were supplied  to 
Mrs W. Theres no dispute that Mrs W wanted French  doors exactly the same  as the 
doors that had been previously supplied - so the doors  werent what  she wanted. 
I sympathise with her for that and the mistakes  that have been  made.  But the 
supplier supplied the doors as set out in its quote and theres  no fault with those 
doors. 
Post Office  Money can only be liable in these circumstances  to refund to Mrs W the 
money that she paid for the doors if theres been  a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. And I dont consider that theres  been  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Mrs Ws husband made a mistake with 
the type of door that he ordered and I agree with Post Office Money that the supplier 
could have been more accommodating and could have done more  to help Mrs W and 
her husband. But I dont consider that it has breached  its contact with them  or that it 
misrepresented the doors to them.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Post Office Money to 
refund to Mrs W the money that she paid for the doors. It accepts that there were 
customer service  failings  in its response  to Mrs Ws complaint and it apologised for 
the level of service that she received  (which  it said was not reflective of the usual 
high standards  of service that it aims to provide).  It also offered to pay her £250 in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset she had been caused. 
I consider that to have been  fair and reasonable compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience that Mrs W was caused by its customer service failings. So I find that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay her a higher amount of 
compensation than it has already offered to her. So other than paying her the £250 
Ref: DRN85792093compensation Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Post Office  Money to take any action in response  to Mrs Ws complaint.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs W or Post Office  Money,  my provisional 
decision was that Post Office Money should pay to Mrs W the £250 compensation that it had 
offered to her.
Mrs W says that, whilst my provisional  decision is disappointing, she accepts the decision 
that Ive made. Post Office Money  hasnt responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc, trading as Post 
Office Money, should pay to Mrs W the £250  compensation that it has offered to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8579209