K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase  agreement with 1st Stop Car 
Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
background 
In April 2019 Mr M acquired a used  car via a four year hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop 
Car Finance. The car was six years  old and had a mileage of just over 79,000. 
Within the first two weeks of having  the car it developed a problem with its gearbox which 
would Mr M said would occur after the car had been  driven for around 40 miles.  Mr M 
complained to the broker who had arranged the finance for the car and it arranged for the 
car to be independently inspected. Mr Ms complaint was then passed to 1st Stop Car 
Finance. 
The independent engineer wasnt able to replicate the problem with the gearbox.  They  found  
the car handled  and performed in a satisfactory manner and they said it was in general 
good condition  for its age and mileage. The independent engineer  said there were no fault 
codes in the ECU and there  was no leaking oil or coolant. 
The independent engineer said the issue with the transmission  complained  of by Mr M was 
probably not a physical fault  but was possibly the transmission clutches slipping under 
certain conditions . The independent engineer  advised that it may be prudent  to have the 
transmission fluid flushed and replaced so as to ensure it wasnt contaminated with swarf as 
this resulted in the valve within the transmission becoming sticky.  
A copy of the independent engineers report was provided to 1st Stop Car Finance. It replied 
to Mr Ms complaint that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a consumer had a right to 
reject a car if it was found to be faulty at the point of sale. But where  the car was a used one, 
as opposed to a new one then consideration had to be given to the age and mileage of the 
car and whether any faults were  due to wear and tear. 
1st Stop Car Finance said used cars can come with wear and tear or cosmetic  issues,  but 
this didnt always mean the car was unfit for purpose or not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. It said it was satisfied on the evidence that the car was of satisfactory  quality. 
Mr M took the car to a garage that was approved  by its manufacturer  and had a health check 
carried out. This check said that there  were  faults stored in two glow plugs and also with the 
mechatronic unit and gearbox valve. It said the mechatronic unit needed to be checked for 
further diagnosis.  
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator  didnt recommend that his complaint 
should be upheld.  The investigator said that under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there was 
an implied term that goods supplied would be of satisfactory quality. But that the satisfactory 
quality of the car would  take into account  things like its age, mileage and price  paid.  He said 
the independent engineer had reported that the car was in overall  good  condition and was of 
a satisfactory quality for a car of its age. 
Ref: DRN83378782Our investigator said he appreciated that the health check  carried  out by the garage had 
identified work that was needed. However, 1st Stop Car Finance had said the issues  raised 
in that check were ones  of wear and tear and would be expected to occur  at the cars age 
and mileage.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he had bought  the car with a 
broken gearbox  and that he had also been told he had a 14 day cooling off period in which  
he could return the car. He said he had raised the problems with the gearbox within  a few 
days of acquiring it.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer  credit  agreement. As such  this service is able to consider  complaints relating to it. 
1st Stop Car Finance is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
therefore responsible  for a complaint  about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that under a contract to supply goods, there  is an implied 
term that "the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".  And the relevant  law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances. So, in a case  involving a car, the other  relevant circumstances that are taken 
into account include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle's 
history.  
Under the relevant  law the quality  of the goods includes their general state and condition  
and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom  from minor  
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.  A new car would  be 
expected  to be fault free but this would  not necessarily  apply  to a used  car. If a used  car had 
a fault it would  not automatically  mean  the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.  Here  the car was 
six years  old and had a mileage  of 79,000  so it would  be reasonable  to expect  that there  
would  be issues  with wear  and tear.
Ive seen  that when  the independent  engineer  tested  the car they were  unable  to replicate  the 
fault with the gearbox  that Mr M had complained  about.  They  recommended  that some  
maintenance  may be appropriate.
Mr M had the car checked  by a garage  thats  approved  by the manufacturer.  Ive seen  that a 
warning  light for the gearbox  was illuminated  on the dash  and that fault codes  were  present  in 
the gearbox  and mechatronics.  The garage  had recommended  further  diagnosis  was required  
so I dont  know  what  the issue  was with the cars  gearbox.  Mr M says  it is a major  fault and he 
hasnt  used  the car but the report  doesnt  set out any details  and I havent  seen  any other  
evidence  about  what  is wrong  with the car. The dealership  has advised  that the issues  raised  
on the vehicle  health  check  are all things  that arise  through  wear  and tear and arent  
abnormal  for a car of that age and mileage.  Mr M says  he doesnt  have  any other  evidence  to 
provide.
Ref: DRN83378783As set out above,  durability  is part of satisfactory  quality.  This takes  into account  that a 
reasonable  person  would  expect  that various  components  of a car will require  maintenance  
and repair  overtime.  And the age and mileage  of the car will mean  that maintenance  issues  
may reasonably  arise  not long after the point  of sale.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act, if the goods  are found  to be faulty  and not of a satisfactory  
quality  within  the first 30 days,  then there  is a right to reject  them  and have  a full refund.  
However,  if the retailer  is able to show  that the goods  were  of a satisfactory  quality  then just 
because  a fault develops  doesnt  mean  that the goods  can be returned.
Here,  1st Stop  Car Finance  has provided  an independent  engineers  report  on the condition  of 
the car. The independent  engineer  said that in their opinion  the car was of satisfactory  quality,  
although  they acknowledged  that it would  be prudent  to undertake  some  maintenance  work  in 
relation  to the gearbox  due to the cars  age and use. Looking  at this report,  I dont  think  I can 
reasonably  say that the subsequent  vehicle  health  check  has provided  evidence  that 
undermines  what  the independent  engineer  said.  It doesnt  set out what  repair  work  the car 
requires,  or that any such  repairs  would  be unexpected  for a car of this age. The evidence  
Ive seen  says  its unlikely  the issues  with the gearbox  arise  from a fault with the car rather  
than being  due to wear  and tear as set out. And I cant  reasonably  say that such  work  is 
unexpected  in a car of that age and mileage.  So, I think  the car was of satisfactory  condition  
at the point  of sale.
Mr M has said he was told he had a 14 day cooling  off period  by the broker.  I dont  know  
exactly  what  was said but the terms  and conditions  of the agreement  does  include  a right to 
cancel  the credit  agreement  within  14 days  of inception.  However,  while  there  is a right to 
cancel  the credit  agreement  there  isnt a right to return  the car. The cost of the car would  still 
need  to be covered.  I think  its more  likely  than not that Mr M misunderstood  what  had been  
said about  this cooling  off period.
So, for the reasons  given  above,  Im not upholding  Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337878