K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he received a letter from TSB Bank Plc, which contained incorrect 
information about how customers could access closed accounts. Hes unhappy with the way 
in which  his request  for copy statements was handled and the service he received over the 
telephone. 
background
Mr W had an account with TSB, which he closed and transferred to another bank in 
July 2018. After this TSB sent him, and other customers  who had switched and closed their 
accounts at around  that time,  correspondence which contained  incorrect  information about 
how statements and account  activity could be accessed.
In March 2019 TSB wrote to all customers who had switched or closed their accounts at 
around the time Mr W had. In its correspondence TSB explained that it had used  incorrect 
wording in a previous letter it had sent about how to access historic statements and account 
information on closed  accounts.
TSB said the incorrect information applied only to customers who had registered  for online 
banking. But it said it had written to all customers who had closed their accounts  at around 
the time Mr W had because it hadnt  been able to identify which customers  had been 
registered for internet banking due to the high number of account holders closing their 
accounts. It said as Mr W hadnt been registered for online  banking  he hadnt  been affected 
by the incorrect  information.
After Mr W received this letter he asked TSB to provide him with five years worth of 
statements relating  to his closed account. But he said it refused to send them  to him. Mr W 
said TSB told him hed have to attend his branch to obtain the statements he wanted 
because he would need to prove his identity. But Mr W didnt want  to attend his local branch. 
During a subsequent telephone call Mr W had with TSB it told him the letter  it had sent after 
the closure of his account didnt apply  to him because he hadnt been registered  for online 
banking. Mr W took issue with the way he was spoken to by the call handler. He felt they 
were unprofessional and rude. 
When Mr W referred his complaint to our service our investigator  didn't  think  it should be 
upheld. There were  satisfied that the incorrect information applied  only to internet banking 
customers. And, because  Mr W didnt use internet banking, they didnt think he was affected 
by the error. Our investigator  didnt think that there was enough evidence to say that TSB 
had refused to provide copies of Mr Ws statements to him as hed requested.  And he didnt  
think TSB staff that Mr W had spoken to over the telephone had acted unprofessionally  or 
provided him with incorrect  information.  But Mr W rejected  our investigators view and asked 
for his complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal  nature  of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think 
Ref: DRN83501732are the key issues. I can assure Mr W and TSB that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. I should  also add, while I can see Mr W has referred our service to a 
previous complaint he made about  TSB,  that complaint isnt something Im able to address in 
this final decision as its already been  dealt with.
I understand Mr W feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would  like. Ill explain why. 
Neither TSB nor Mr W have provided  our service  with a copy of the letter  Mr W received 
after he closed his account. But Im satisfied it was received by Mr W and TSB dont dispute 
that. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint,  TSB sent this letter  to all customers  
who had closed their accounts at around  the time Mr W had. But, crucially, the incorrect  
information applied  only to customers who had registered for online banking. 
Mr W hadnt been registered for online  banking  at the time he closed his account. And, while  
I can appreciate that receiving a letter with incorrect information was inconvenient to him it 
didnt apply to him. So, Im satisfied that he wasnt affected by what TSB had written.
Ive carefully considered  the content  of the letter TSB sent Mr W in March 2019. This letter  
was intended  to correct the wrong  information  that had previously been provided.  It said due 
to our systems update you may have not received the correct wording in the letter we sent 
when you left us. This shouldnt have happened and were sorry. 
The use of may here is important because  TSB isnt saying that all customers were 
affected by its error. And, as Ive already  explained Mr W didnt use internet banking. So, he 
wasnt one of the customers affected  by the incorrect wording.
I accept that TSBs correspondence in March 2019 doesnt make  clear which customers  had 
been affected by the incorrect wording. I think TSB could have clarified  that only online 
customers were  affected. But that doesnt  mean  I think TSB did anything wrong in sending 
that letter to all customers. 
Its clear to me that what TSB was trying to do was to remedy the inaccurate information it 
had previously provided. It hadnt been  able to identify  which  customers  had been registered 
for internet banking  due to the high number of account holders closing their accounts.  So, I 
can understand why it decided  to write  to all customers to apologise if theyd been affected 
by the incorrect  information previously provided.
In the overall circumstances,  I cant conclude that the actions taken by TSB were  
unreasonable and unfair.  And Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to ask TSB to pay 
compensation to Mr W in those circumstances.  
After Mr W received correspondence from TSB in March 2019 he requested  copy bank 
statements spanning the previous five years. The letter he received in March explained how 
he could obtain  statements  relating  to his closed account.  Its clear that if he wanted  his 
statements posted to him he had to confirm his identity at a branch. Alternatively, he could 
visit a specific branch to collect statements provided he satisfied identification  requirements.
Mr W says TSB has refused to provide  copy statements  to him. But Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me that it tried to prevent  him obtaining  the statements hes requested.  Its clear 
Ref: DRN83501733that Mr W thinks its unfair that he must attend a branch in order  to verify his identity before 
copy statements can be provided to him. And I appreciate that he cant  attend  at his local 
branch and has health issues,  which prevent him from travelling to alternative branches.  But 
TSB has a duty to safeguard  confidential  financial information about its account holders. And 
it has to satisfy itself that the individual requesting statements is entitled to receive  that 
information. So, I cant fairly find that TSB acted unreasonably in stipulating  that customers 
must prove their identity in branch before theyre  able to receive  their statements.  
As our investigator told Mr W, TSB is entitled to set its own policies regarding identification 
with which  we cant interfere. But I can see theyve offered to discuss with TSB how it may 
be able to facilitate  alternative methods for Mr W to receive his statements. I think this was 
helpful. However, Mr W doesnt wish to speak with TSB over the telephone,  which  would be 
necessary if it was to consider making  reasonable adjustments to assist  Mr W. This limits 
what more our service can do here.  
Mr W says the letter  he was sent stated that he could  request copies of his statements over 
the telephone. But that isnt what the letter said. And I havent seen any other 
correspondence to make me think that TSB said customers could request statements in this 
way. So, I cant agree with Mr W about  this part of his complaint.
Finally, Mr W complains about  the manner in which he was spoken to by TSB staff over the 
telephone. He feels staff behaved in a rude and unprofessional manner towards  him. Having 
listened to the call recordings TSB provided our service, its clear Mr W was unhappy  about  
the letter hed received.  In those calls I can hear staff trying  to explain why the incorrect  
wording didnt apply  to him and how he could obtain  the statements he wanted. I think their 
tone was professional  and courteous.  So, I cant agree with what Mr W says here. 
I appreciate that Mr W feels very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But, for the reasons set out above, I think  that TSB 
acted fairly  and reasonably. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 March 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350173