K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a hire purchase agreement that was taken out in his name  with BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by his accountant who I will call Mr C.
background
I set out the background  of Mr Ss complaint in the provisional decision I issued last year.  Ill 
run through the background again here so that all relevant background information is in this 
one decision.
In October  2017 Mr S met an individual  who Mr S describes as a used car salesman,  I will
call this man Mr R. Mr R worked  for a company I will call H.
Mr Ss position is that he told Mr R that he wanted to buy a car. He wanted to spend  no more  
than £15,000  in total. He also specified the car must have a 2016  registration or later and 
must have  less than 25,000 miles on the clock, along with a Euro  6 registration.  Mr S tells us 
his requirements were very specific as he is a taxi driver  and needed a car with these 
specifications in order to be able to work. Mr R suggested he could  help Mr S out.
Mr S already  had at least one car at this point. He sold one of his cars, which I will call car 
1 to H. Mr S told us he thought he was part exchanging car 1 with H to help pay for the 
purchase of a new car, with the characteristics  Ive outlined above.  According to Mr S, Mr R 
told him car 1 was worth £7,500 but only gave  him an invoice from H for £6,500.  Mr S also 
said although Mr R gave  him an invoice for £6,500 and took car 1, he never actually gave  
him (Mr S) the money. Though it is not clear why Mr S might have expected to get the 
£6,500 directly from H, if that money  was meant to be used immediately, in part exchange 
for another  car that Mr R on behalf of H, was sourcing. Neither  is it clear  why Mr S went 
along with H giving him an invoice  for less than car 1 was apparently  worth.
However, despite repeated promises Mr R did not immediately find Mr S a new car. Rather, 
nothing further  happened until February  2018. At this point Mr S entered  into a car finance 
agreement with a third-party finance company, a limited company I will call C. The role of 
Mr R in this transaction  is unclear. As although Mr S suggested  that Mr R was acting as the 
dealership and the credit broker neither Mr R or H appeared to have this role, at least 
according to the written  documents. Rather, the contractual documentation shows  that a 
separate third-party company  acted as the credit broker. It seems this same company was 
also the car dealership.
Unfortunately, the car supplied by C, which I will call car 2 did not meet Mr Ss needs and 
Mr S told Mr R he didnt  want it. It does  not appear  that Mr S told C this though at the same 
time. Mr S appears only to have told Mr R about  his dissatisfaction, at this point. Mr S said in 
any event he never  took possession  car 2, instead  Mr R kept it.
Mr R it seems reassured Mr S yet again,  telling him, he would put things right,  he would 
return car 2, and that in the meantime,  Mr S should ignore any calls he got from C chasing 
for payment. In the midst of this, Mr S said he did indeed receive a call from C asking him 
where its car was, and he told it he did not know and had never had possession of car 2. 
This appeared to be news to C. Mr S told us that C told him, it would get in touch with Mr R. 
As far as we are aware Mr S then heard nothing further from C.
Ref: DRN84573952In May 2018  Mr S entered into a new finance  agreement, a hire purchase agreement  for a 
used car. I will call this car, car 3. This hire purchase agreement  was with BMW  FS. Mr S 
told us Mr R set up this deal too. However, the credit  broking was not done  by Mr R or 
indeed by H. Rather, according  to the relevant contractual documents, it was done by 
another third party, a limited company that I will call Z. Z was also the car dealership. It 
seems though that H was involved to some extent,  in that H sold car 3 to Z. It seems then Z 
sold car 3 to BMW FS. Then BMW  FS supplied car 3 to Mr S under  the hire purchase 
agreement.
When he complained  to BMW FS Mr S suggested hed never signed the hire purchase 
agreement with it. But when Mr C spoke  to us he said, Mr S had signed the finance 
agreement although  the details had not been  filled in. He, Mr S, also signed  a blank direct 
debit form. 
In addition, Mr S said that Z and BMW FS had the wrong contact details for him, and he 
thought this was significant. In particular, he thought this supported his stance that someone 
other than him had actually signed up for the hire purchase agreement.  Although, as I 
mention above,  Mr C contradicting Mr S, indicated Mr S had signed  the hire purchase 
agreement.
Mr S also suggested that the terms of the hire purchase agreement  had been 
misrepresented to him by Mr R acting for H, as he had not wanted to spend  so much on a 
car. And also, because  he would  not have gone ahead  if he realised how much  he was 
agreeing to borrow.
The details we have  of the hire purchase  agreement show the car supplied  by BMW FS had 
a cash price of £16,995. There was a payment which was noted as an advance payment of
£3,000 and BMW  FS provided  credit  of £13,995. There  was no mention in the contractual 
documents of any part exchanged car. Specifically,  there was no mention of the £6,500 from 
the sale of car 1 which Mr S said had been used to fund this contract.
Further, Mr S had been supplied by BMW FS with a car that had a 2015 registration and it 
had over 50,000  miles on the clock and didnt  have a Euro 6 registration.  Mr S told us he 
complained, once again, to Mr R. Mr R said as before, he would sort it out. One payment 
was made  towards  the car, but Mr S said he did not make that payment.
Mr C said Mr S is now out of work  because  he doesnt have a car so cant  work as a taxi 
driver which is his profession. Although it appears  that Mr S did have a second car in 2017,  
a car which I will call car 4. We are aware of this because as part of his complaint 
submission Mr C told us that Mr S had been intending to sell car 4 to a person I will call Mr 
M. Mr C also told us that Mr S then part exchanged  car 4 for another  car which I will call 
car 5. Car 5 was supplied by a finance  company that is not a party to this complaint. It is 
unclear what has happened  to car 5 and why this is not suitable for Mr Ss work.
Mr S has said he is willing  to return car 3 to BMW  FS which the mileage  information  shows 
he has been using.  But he asks for £6,500 which as I have mentioned already, he says 
relates to car 1 which  he thinks he part exchanged  to finance the contract  with BMW  FS. 
Albeit as the same  time he suggests he entered into no such  contract. He also asks that 
BMW FS remove  any negative information  it has asked the credit  reference agencies to 
register on his credit file. Mr S suggested  he has been the victim of a fraud orchestrated by 
Mr R acting for H. Mr S told us hed gone  to the police  about this.
Ref: DRN84573953BMW FS said its records  show that Mr S entered into the hire purchase agreement with it in
May 2018. Its records also show that only one payment was ever received, this was a
payment by card. It hasnt  been able to demonstrate who made  this payment. In December
2018 it sent out a notice of arrears  to the address it had for Mr S. It didnt agree that it had
done anything  wrong. In particular, it does not accept that it wasnt  Mr S who entered into the
contract with it.
Further, in summary BMW FSs stance is that Mr S could afford the lending.  In addition,  
BMW FS indicated, if Mr S couldnt afford  the lending it was up to him, rather  than it, to know  
this. It thought that given Mr S had passed  its checks it had done enough to make  sure that 
the lending to Mr S was appropriate.
Dissatisfied with progress  so far, Mr S came to our service.
I looked at Mr Ss complaint and I issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said although 
I realised that Mr S had mentioned a series of events involving Mr R and H, I only had the 
power to look at the agreement Mr S has with BMW FS. Further,  I explained Mr R and H 
were not a party to this complaint and so I had no power to require  Mr R or H to do anything.
In addition, I said that Mr S had given inconsistent information about  whether or not he had 
signed the hire purchase agreement with BMW FS. I would have expected  Mr S to know, in 
the circumstances whether  or not he had signed  the hire purchase  agreement.  So, I thought  
the inconsistencies in his account were significant. With these significant inconsistencies in 
mind, I had difficulty relying on his version of events. On balance, I was satisfied that he had 
signed the hire purchase agreement.
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard  to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice at the 
time.
The finance  agreement with BMW FS, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a
regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints
relating to it.
I thought that Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  is relevant law here. In essence, 
this provision makes BMW FS, responsible  for any misrepresentations about  the hire 
purchase agreement  made by a party who credit brokered the hire purchase agreement. 
That would mean, on the face of it, any misrepresentations made by Z before Mr S entered  
into the hire purchase  agreement. Moreover, BMW  FS was obliged  to give Mr S accurate 
information about the hire purchase agreement. Therefore, if I was satisfied that Z had 
misrepresented the contract to Mr S or indeed if I thought  BMW FS had, I would think  it fair 
and reasonable that BMW  FS be held responsible for this.
However, the difficulty for Mr S is that none of the misrepresentations he says were made 
were made by Z or BMW FS. Rather  he tells us Mr R and H had given him inaccurate  
information. It did not appear, on balance, that either  Mr R or H had acted as a credit broker 
in relation to the agreement with BMW FS. That meant there was no relationship  between  Mr 
R, H and BMW FS that meant BMW FS had to take responsibility for the actions of Mr R or 
H. 
Ref: DRN84573954I didnt agree that BMW  FS had to refund the £6,500. I had no reason to doubt the details set 
out in the agreement. It did not mention  any part- exchange of a car 1, or indeed any
part-exchange at all. Further, I noted  that there was quite a gap in time between  the sale of 
car 1 to H and the agreement with BMW FS, during this intervening period Mr S entered into 
other finance agreements where the £6,500 might have been used in those deals, as seems  
more likely. For these reasons, I was not sufficiently persuaded  the £6,500 Mr S refers to 
was actually included  in the BMW FS agreement. Further still, I took on board also that Mr S 
has sent us information that suggests that he wanted the £6,500 back  from Mr R. That does 
not suggest that this money was intended to be used as a deposit  for a car Mr R was going  
to help Mr S find.
I then turned to the decision to lend. I went through, in great  detail, the relevant regulatory 
provisions that BMW  FS, a regulated lender, must  take on board when deciding to lend. 
I said, taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I 
thought there are two very pertinent questions I needed to consider in order to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1.Did BMW FS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the money he borrowed under  the hire purchase agreement in a 
sustainable way?
2.If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
I noted that if I found that BMW FS didnt act fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr S 
and that he has lost out as a result, I would go on to consider  what  is fair a way to put things 
right.
BMW FS provided  us with information about the checks  it carried  out. In particular it said:
This agreement was an auto acceptance through our underwriting  system. This means  in 
reaching an auto accept decision, consideration was given to the applicant's declared 
employment status, residential status and age, in conjunction with the requested monthly
payment.
A Credit Reference Agency request for all of the applicant's existing credit account data was
also made, and data successfully returned.
The relevant  characteristics  from the above  data were then factored into the appropriate in- 
house scoring model, with an acceptable  result  achieved.
Subsequently the application was subjected  to our standard suite of policy  rules,  with no 
concerns raised.  The satisfactory results enabled an acceptance  to be generated by our
Credit Decision System without the need  for any manual underwriting.
From the information BMW FS provided  it relied  on information given by Mr S about his job, 
home and age. It looked at the monthly  payments but without reference to what  his 
incomings might be or his pre-existing  and continuing outgoings. And because  apparently  all 
his pre-existing finance agreements were in good order,  he was approved after going 
through BMW FSs policy rules, whatever those might be.
In thinking what  proportionate checks might  have looked like here, I took account, amongst 
other things,  of the amount of borrowing which was many thousands of pounds,  the monthly 
Ref: DRN84573955payments, Mr Ss other borrowing including that he had taken out two other car finance 
agreements, in February 2018, that is very shortly  before the agreement with BMW  FS. 
BMW FS had very limited information  about  Mr Ss overall financial situation it didnt 
seemingly know his income, or his expenditure. When  I factored  in all of this, I didnt find that 
the checks BMW  FS did were proportionate in the circumstances.
That being  so, I then had to look at whether  I thought Mr S could afford  the borrowing. To 
establish this, I needed  to look at Mr Ss financial situation. However,  when I did that, I was 
not persuaded that we had received  a full disclosure of Mr Ss situation at the time he 
entered into the hire purchase  agreement  with BMW FS.
For example, I pointed out Mr S said he had an account with a bank I will call I. Mr S 
tells us that in recent years he has not used the account and in fact says it is closed but 
I had not seen information that confirms this.
Further there were substantial incomings into his bank  account, that have also not been 
explained such as for example a large deposit  into his account with a bank I will call H the 
statements say this is a catering advance. Yet Mr Ss profession has nothing to do with 
catering as far as I am aware.
I said, if Mr S could  provide further information  about  his account with I and about  the 
several incomings to his account with H, which are not related to his income as a taxi 
driver, please  might he supply this, so I could take a look at this information  before issuing 
my next decision.
But as things stood  at the time I issued my provisional decision I did not intend to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint as on balance, I could not find that Mr S could not afford the finance.
I asked Mr S and BMW  FS to respond to my provisional decision, should  they wish to do 
so. Mr S responded  via Mr C. BMW  FS sent no response as far as I am aware, but I am 
satisfied that it has had an adequate opportunity  to do so, even taking into account that in 
the current circumstances given our country is in the midst of a pandemic, some  
businesses are needing longer than normal to respond.
In brief,  Mr C on behalf of Mr S responded by sending in several  documents,  including  the 
particulars of claim that Mr S, had had drafted for legal action that he began but then 
abandoned against H. Mr C went on to say, that Mr R and H were shady, and he sent 
online reviews of H from disgruntled customers. Mr C also sent in tax returns for Mr S 
which he suggested set out Mr Ss full financial position. But we received no further 
information about the account with I or about  the incomings into Mr Ss account  with H, 
which I mentioned above.
my findings
I thank Mr S for his response to my provisional decision. Ive re-considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Ive reviewed  the complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
Mr S has provided new information  in the particulars of claim about whether he did or did not 
enter into the hire purchase agreement with BMW FS. In this document he indicates that he 
did sign the hire purchase agreement with BMW FS. Albeit  he suggests he did this because 
he was given inaccurate information  about  car 3 by H.
Ref: DRN84573956Ive thought again about the nature of the relationship between Mr S, Mr R and H. If Mr R on 
behalf of H had acted as a credit broker in relation to the hire purchase agreement  for car 3 
with BMW FS then BMW FS could be responsible for any relevant misrepresentations made 
by H to Mr S prior to Mr S entering into the agreement. 
However, although Mr S has seemingly  very strong convictions about how H operated,  and 
although I think it likely that H was involved in some capacity in the deal, I dont find, on 
balance, that H was acting as a credit broker here. I say this because, H does not appear as 
the credit  broker in the agreement. Although it was possible  that H could have operated  as a 
credit broker  even  if it did not appear on the agreement, if for example H had introduced Mr 
S to Z in a way that made H a credit  broker too. That being  said,  the reality of the agreement  
between Mr S and H is somewhat opaque. Mr S has been  inconsistent in what  he says 
happened between  them, plus there are puzzling gaps in his account  of events. For 
example, he does not explain  why he accepted  that H should give him one valuation  of car 1 
verbally and a different one in writing.  Neither  has he given a persuasive account of why he 
continued to persevere with H when  according to Mr S, H let him down time after time. I 
accept that other customers of H may have been  disappointed with its services.  But that 
does not tell me what most likely happened  in the individual circumstances of Mr Ss 
complaint. Moreover,  those customers seem to have had one-off or limited interactions with 
H, whereas Mr S had an ongoing arrangement with H via Mr R that seemed to last for 
months. 
I note that it appears  that according to Mr S, BMW FS has provided him with a car that is 
unsuitable for his work. That has caused me to wonder  why Mr S went ahead  with the 
purchase. But I also take account of the fact that Mr S has been using the car, for what 
purpose I dont know. Plus, Mr S has told us about  five different cars that he appears  to have 
bought and sold, including car 4 which Mr S was intending  to sell to a buyer.  In the 
circumstances, I cant  discount  the possibility that Mr S had some other commercial reasons 
for buying and selling cars that did not involve his taxi driving role and that might have been 
why he went ahead  with the purchase of car 3. In any event, if Mr R acting for H did not act 
as a credit  broker in relation to car 3, it is not relevant what  Mr R said to Mr S before he 
entered into the hire purchase  agreement  because BMW FS would not be responsible  for 
this.
Mr S asks that the agreement be set aside on the basis that it was misrepresented to him. 
He also asks for the return  of his £6,500. But as I explained above, I find I have no proper 
basis to ask BMW  FS to end the hire purchase  agreement with Mr S on these grounds.
Since we have received no response from BMW FS I still find, for the reasons I set out 
above and in my provisional decision, that it did not carry out proportionate checks  before it 
lent to Mr S. However, as I previously explained,  if I am to decide that it is fair and 
reasonable to ask BMW  FS to end the agreement  and stop pursuing  Mr S for the debt he 
owes under  the agreement, I first need to be satisfied that on balance, Mr S could not afford 
the finance. Mr C has sent us additional information  about Mr Ss financial position  at the 
time he took out the finance. But this information  does not go far enough  to persuade  me 
that I have  sufficient information to assess whether the lending  was unaffordable.  This is 
because we still have  received no information  about Mr Ss account with I. Moreover, we still 
have received no information to explain the relatively large  payments into Mr Ss account 
with H. Mr S has not given us any reason  for not supplying  this information, and on the face 
of it, it appears he should be able to supply it with ease. It follows  that I cannot  fairly and 
reasonably ask BMW FS to take any further action in relation to this complaint point.
Ref: DRN84573957I have not been persuaded by the new information provided by Mr S. It follows I have 
reached the same conclusions for the same reasons that I outlined in this final decision and 
in my earlier provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8457395