K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that the cash settlement Admiral Insurance  Company Limited offered in 
settlement of her motor  insurance  claim isnt enough.
background
In October  2018 Mrs N contacted Admiral to make  a claim on her motor insurance policy,  as 
it was her insurer and her car had been damaged by another  driver.  Admiral accepted her 
claim. As it considered her car to be a total loss (known as a write-off), it offered  her a cash 
settlement amount of £5,175. 
But Mrs N thought this wasnt  enough  to allow her to buy another car and didnt take into 
account the £9,000  she paid for the car in 2013 or what  shes  recently spent repairing it. So 
she complained  to Admiral.
In its response,  Admiral  said Mrs Ns insurance  policy was there to put her back  into the 
same monetary position she was in just before the accident and it did this by offering the 
market value of her car. It explained it had based its settlement amount of £5,175  on the 
highest of three valuations given in the relevant  trade guides, and that what Mrs N had spent 
on her car wouldnt necessarily have increased its market value.
Mrs N remained  unhappy with the settlement amount so she contacted  our service. The 
investigator who looked into things thought Admiral had offered Mrs N a fair market value in 
line with the terms  and conditions of her policy. Mrs N disagreed  so her complaints been 
passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
In considering Mrs Ns complaint, Ive looked  at the terms  and conditions  of her policy. They  
say Admiral can pay a cash settlement to Mrs N instead of paying  for repairs and that the 
most it will pay in cash settlement is her cars market value. The terms and conditions define 
market value as the cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar  make, model, year,  
mileage and condition  based on market prices  at the time of the loss.
I need to decide whether the £5,175  Admiral  has offered Mrs N is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of her cars market value.  Our service  doesnt value cars, instead we look to see if 
the insurer has valued the car fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  
of the policy.
Admiral says it got three valuations for Mrs Ns car, these were  £4,050,  £4,320 and £5,175 
and based the settlement amount on the highest  valuation. Ive seen that it got these 
valuations from widely used motor-trade  guides. We generally find these guides persuasive 
as theyre based  on extensive nationwide research.
While investigating Mrs Ns complaint our service also checked the market value of her car 
using four trade guides. Based on the make,  model, year and mileage of Mrs Ns car, our 
service obtained  valuations of £4,400, £5,150, £5,175 and £5,464.  
Ref: DRN84931792Based on this, Im satisfied that the £5,175 offered  by Admiral  is a fair valuation of Mrs Ns 
car. I say this because  Admiral is not obliged to pay the highest  valuation, but what  it offered 
is within the range of valuations both our service  and Admiral obtained.
I understand Mrs N feels the settlement amount doesnt take into account  the £9,000 she 
paid for her car. But she bought it the car in 2013 and as per the terms and conditions, 
Admiral is only obliged  to pay the market value  of the car at the time of the loss, not when it 
was purchased. And similar to most cars, Mrs Ns car has lost value over the intervening  
years as shown by the recent valuations. 
I also understand Mrs N feels the settlement amount doesnt  take account  of what she 
recently spent on her car, including £1,500 to replace the timing belt. From what  shes  said,  
it seems the money Mrs N spent was to maintain her car in good working order. This isnt 
something that would  increase her cars market value as the valuations weve obtained from 
the trade guides  reflect the cars good  condition.  
I appreciate Mrs N will be disappointed as shes told us shes  not in a financial position to 
buy another car. But as Ive explained I think Admirals valuation is fair so I wont  be asking it 
to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8493179