K821x#15complaint
Mr J (by way of a representative) says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) 
irresponsibly lent to him and didnt carry out proper affordability checks. 
background
Mr J took 4 loans from QuickQuid between October  2010 and February  2011.  Although  all 
the loans have been repaid, it seems  that Mr J had some difficulties repaying his final loan.
A summary  of Mr Js borrowing,  based  on the information provided to us from QuickQuid, 
can be found in the table  below:
loan number loan amount received dateactual  
repayment datenumber of 
instalments
1 £150.00 13/10/2010 26/11/2010 2
2 £150.00 15/12/2010 21/01/2011 2
3 £100.00 21/01/2011 18/02/2011 2
4 £650.00 21/02/2011 28/04/2011 2
Our adjudicator didnt  think that QuickQuid should have given Mr J loan 4 because the final 
balloon payment for loan 4 represented  a significant  portion  of Mr Js declared  income.  This 
indicated the loan was not sustainable for him. 
Mr J appears  to have accepted the adjudicators view, but QuickQuid didnt agree. No 
agreement could be reached,  so the case has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
 
Neither Mr J nor QuickQuid provided any further comments  about the lending decisions for 
loans 1, 2 and 3. So it seems to me that these loans are no longer in dispute. It therefore  
follows that I wont be making findings  on these  loans  in this decision.  
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to figure out 
whether Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN89758482the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So QuickQuid was required to establish  whether Mr J could sustainably  repay  his loans   not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr J could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, proportionate checks for loan 4 would most likely have shown 
that:
Mr Js loan repayment represented  a significant proportion  of his monthly income. In 
these circumstances,  there was a significant  risk that Mr J wouldnt have been able to 
repay this loan without  undue difficulty or without borrowing further. I dont think  that 
QuickQuid could  reasonably have believed  that Mr J would be able to make the 
payment over two pay periods,  bearing  in mind hed failed to repay lower  amounts for 
loans one, two and three  (under  similar arrangements) without him needing to borrow 
again shortly afterwards. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and QuickQuid should  put things right as 
detailed below.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Js credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CashEuroNet UK LLC to take off tax from this interest. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC must  give Mr J a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Ref: DRN89758483my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Js complaint.  
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8975848