K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about the refurbishment  charges that Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited (VWFS) has applied after a hire purchase agreement  for a car was 
voluntary terminated.
Background
In May 2015 Mrs A entered  into a four year hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a 
new car.
In April 2018  Mrs A decided to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement and arranged to 
take out a new agreement  for another car. Mrs A contacted VWFS and asked it to supply the 
voluntary termination  figure. Mrs A says she was given a figure  over the phone which  
unfortunately she misheard. VWFS  also sent a letter to Mrs A setting out the settlement  
quote, but this didnt  confirm the VT amount as the settlement figure  didnt say how much  the 
car was actually worth.
Mrs A ordered a new car and paid the deposit.  She says it was only then that she found out 
shed misheard  the VT figure for the first agreement. However, she paid the required figure  
and made arrangements  to collect the new car and leave the original car with the 
dealership near the end of April 2018.
Mrs A says that she asked the dealership to check over the car as to any potential charges 
for damage. Mrs A says she was aware there was a chip in the windscreen and if the 
dealership had said there would be a charge for this she intended to have that repaired 
under her car insurance. Mrs A says the dealership assured her the car was in a 
satisfactory condition.
In May 2018 a direct debit  payment  for the original car was collected from Mrs As bank 
account. Mrs A contacted VWFS and said this was in error. Mrs A says that she didnt 
receive a reply to the enquiry so she emailed  VWFS for a second time in June. VWFS 
then said it hadnt  received a completed  VT form which had been sent to her in both April 
and June 2018. It asked  her to complete a form and said it would then arrange  for the car 
to be collected. Mrs A completed the form and returned it.
At the end of June  2018 Mrs A received a letter from VWFS confirming the agreement had 
been ended  via VT. This letter set out that an independent company would be in touch 
within one week to arrange  collection and inspection  of the car. Mrs A says she assumed  
this letter  was late as the car had been  handed to the dealership two months earlier.
In July 2018 VWFS repaid Mrs A the amount that had been  taken  from her account in May 
2018.
The car was inspected at the dealership at the end of August. A report was prepared  as to 
the condition of the car. This report set out there was damage to the bonnet, rear bumper, 
windscreen, one alloy wheel and the left hand front wing.  The cost of refurbishment  was 
set at £853.31 and an invoice for this amount was sent to Mrs A. Mrs A says this was the 
first thing shed heard  about the car being inspected.
Mrs A complained to VWFS when she received the invoice. She said the car had been  
with the dealership since the end of April 2018  and hadnt been under her control.
Ref: DRN87248292VWFS partially upheld  Mrs As complaint in that it reduced the amount of the invoice by 
deducting the repair costs for the bonnet as it accepted this didnt  need  a full respray. 
The invoice for the refurbishment charges was reduced to £721.03.
However, VWFS said refurbishment  costs formed part of the agreements terms and 
conditions. It said that the inspection  had applied the British Vehicle Leasing  and Renting 
Association (BVLRA) guidelines  as to what was fair and wear and tear and what  was not. 
The report  had set out the damage that had been  found on the car and that Mrs A was 
liable for those  refurbishing costs.
VWFS said it couldnt comment on any inspection carried out by the dealership, but if Mrs A 
believed the damage had occurred while that car had been at the dealership then she 
should complain  to the garage  directly.  VWFS said it and the dealership were two separate  
entities.
Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator  recommended that her complaint should 
be partially upheld.  He said Mrs A should be held responsible for damage  that may have 
occurred while she had control of the car. The investigator said the agreement  had ended 
by VT in April 2018 when  Mrs A had handed the car back to the dealership. And, as the car 
wasnt then inspected for over three months, this had left a large window when Mrs A didnt 
have responsibility  for it and couldnt  ensure  it was kept in a good condition. Our 
investigator said hed considered whether  the damage that had been noted was more  or 
less likely to have been present at the time Mrs A had the car in her possession. He 
considered each of the areas  of damage  separately.
Our investigator said that looking at the photos that were provided with the inspection report  
theyd shown two chips to the windscreen. And chips were outside  of whats considered fair 
wear and tear under the BVLRA  guidelines. He also noted that Mrs A was aware there was 
damage to the windscreen  and had raised this with the dealership. He said that if the car 
had been inspected promptly then Mrs A wouldve been able to claim for this under her 
insurance and only pay the excess.  Due to the delay, he thought it was unfair she should 
now be liable for the full refurbishment  cost of the windscreen.
Next our investigator considered the scratch to the alloy wheel. He said this was often the 
result of parking too close to the pavement. It seemed unlikely that the dealership  
wouldve driven the car very much  so it was more likely  than not that this damage 
occurred while Mrs A had the car. The damage to the alloy wheel was outside the BVLRA  
guidelines and so he thought it was fair for VWFS to invoice Mrs A for this refurbishment  
cost.
Our investigator also thought that the dent on the left hand wing was more likely  than not to 
have been Mrs As responsibility, as that type of damage arose from the car being driven. 
He also said he didnt  think  it was likely  the car had been moved much by the dealership 
while it was there. So he thought this cost was fairly invoiced to Mrs A by VWFS.
However, while the dent to the bumper  also fell outside the BVRLA  guidelines for fair 
wear and tear, our investigator said he thought that type of damage was more  likely to 
have happened  on a forecourt when Mrs A no longer had control  of the car. So he didnt 
think it was fair to include that refurbishment cost in the invoice.
Ref: DRN87248293This meant the total amount of the invoice  from VWFS to Mrs A should be reduced to 
£208.80.
Mrs A said she was still disappointed that shed  been found  liable to cover some of the 
costs of refurbishment. She said VWFS had never explained the reason for the delay in the 
car being inspected.
VWFS said the investigators  recommendation wasnt fair and reasonable. It said that Mrs A 
had chosen to leave  the car at the dealership, and hadnt requested  to VT the agreement  
until the end of June  2018. The damage noted  to the car was evidenced by the report and 
photos and it was accepted that the reported  damage all fell outside of what  was 
considered fair wear  and tear under the BVLRA guidelines.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued  a 
provisional decision along the following lines. 
Mrs A had acquired a new car in May 2015 under a four year hire purchase  agreement.  
However, before the end date of that agreement  Id seen shed wanted  to change cars so 
applied for the VT figure. Mrs A then chose and ordered a new car, entering into a new 
hire purchase agreement with payments that had started in May 2018.
Looking at Mrs As July 2018 account  statement for the original car, I could see shed made  
two large payments in April 2018. This amount was equal to the VT figure. These  payments 
were made only a few days before the new car was ordered and the original  car had been 
left at the dealership. Id also seen from this statement that a monthly payment was taken 
for the first car from her account  in May 2018,  but returned. The statement shows the car 
as sold at the end of June, though  I appreciated this was not actually the case and I 
assumed this was a device to show  the agreement had ended.
Mrs A had also provided a copy of her bank statement which confirmed a payment made in 
May 2018 had been repaid by VWFS in July and that no payment was taken under the 
agreement during June 2018.  So the last payment made under the agreement was in April 
2018.
VWFS said the agreement wasnt eligible for VT until June  2018  as no signed VT form was 
received until the end of that month.  It said it provided the VT pack to Mrs A in April 2018 
and that this made it clear that the car remained the responsibility of Mrs A up until the 
point it was collected.
However, Mrs A said she didnt get the VT pack in April and it was only because  the May 
direct debit was taken for a car shed handed back that she made contact with VWFS. She 
then completed the required VT form in June, but hadnt hear anything further until 
receiving the refurbishment invoice  from VWFS in August  2018.
Looking at the VT form the usual process was that when VWFS  received a signed form 
from the consumer  then it confirmed the agreement  was VT within five working days.  Id 
seen that this confirmation letter was received  by Mrs A at the end of June 2018. Next,  
once VWFS has confirmed termination, the consumer was contacted by the company 
who carries  out the inspection on the car and a date was arranged for this examination to 
take place.  Following the inspection a report  was prepared and a short time was allowed 
before the car was collected, in order that if the consumer  chose to do so they could 
Ref: DRN87248294arrange the repairs  on the car. The car was then collected and if there were  outstanding  
refurbishment costs an invoice would be sent to the consumer.
But this wasnt  the process that was followed in Mrs As case. But I couldnt reasonably say 
this was entirely VWFSs fault as the dealership shouldnt have taken the car back from 
Mrs A without confirmation from VWFS that the agreement  had been ended.  Although 
shed paid the VT settlement amount this was only part of the procedure of handing the car 
back and it appeared that it was the signed VT form which triggered the agreement being 
recorded as ended.
It didnt appear that the company that inspected the car had made any attempt to contact 
Mrs A so it must have  become aware about  where the car was. The report  was also not 
provided to Mrs A, and she was only made aware that the car had been independently 
inspected on receiving  the invoice from VWFS  in August.
So from the evidence  Id seen, VWFS  had confirmed in a letter that the agreement was VT 
at the end of June 2018 but actually treated Mrs As hire purchase agreement  as VT at the 
end of April 2018. This was because it had accepted that no further payments were due 
under the agreement from that month, and had also accepted the VT settlement payment in 
April. I thought VWFS had acted fairly by not taking any further payments under the 
agreement after April.
I thought it was only when  VWFS  received the VT form that the inspection of the car 
wouldve been arranged.  VWFS hadnt offered  an explanation as to why there was then a 
delay in the car being finally inspected or why this company  had made no contact  with Mrs 
A. I was unclear why no inspection had taken place until August when the VT letter  said it 
would happen  within the next seven days.
So I thought  it was fair to say that the car wasnt under  Mrs As control from the end of 
April 2018 and the issue for me to resolve was whether  she was responsible for any of the 
damage found when the car had been  inspected.
Id seen that Mrs A hadnt disputed there was damage to the windscreen. She said if the 
dealership had advised her she wouldve had this repaired under her insurance.  Shed 
provided a copy of her insurance policy to show this type of repair was covered. There  
was a £90 excess  for any claim to replace  a windscreen. And I thought it was likely that 
had the inspection of the car proceeded as it shouldve then Mrs A wouldve had the 
opportunity to arrange that repair. This wouldve limited her liability to that cost. So I 
thought it was fair for VWFS to invoice Mrs A £90 for the cost of refurbishing  the 
windscreen.
I appreciated Mrs A had relied on the dealerships reassurances as to the condition of the 
car but it wasnt acting  on the authority of VWFS  when it carried out any inspection. The 
process of the car being inspected independently and against the industrys guidelines as to 
the expected condition  of used cars was the usual one followed and I thought it was 
reasonable. So it was unfair for me to rely on what the dealership had said to Mrs A about 
the condition of the car.
Looking at the alloy wheel, Mrs A said shed taken  out insurance for those  repairs  but had 
been again denied the opportunity to make such a claim  by the delay in the inspection. By 
the time shed received the report and invoice, the car was no longer in her possession. Id 
seen the photos of the damage and I was satisfied that it fell outside  fair wear  and tear and 
Ref: DRN87248295I agreed with the investigator that this type of damage was more  likely than not the result of 
the car being  driven. I thought it was unlikely  to have  arisen while  the car was at the 
dealership as I didnt  think it was likely  the car wouldve been  used  as it was going to be sold 
via auction. It had also belonged to VWFS  and not the dealership at the time.  I thought it was 
more likely than not that the damage  to the alloy wheel occurred while  it was being driven by 
Mrs A.
I was aware that under Mrs As insurance  policy for damage to the alloy wheels a claim 
has to be made shortly after the damage  was done, if it wasnt then the damage  wont  be 
covered. I thought  it was unlikely in these  circumstances that Mrs A wouldve been able to 
make a successful claim and so I didnt think shed been disadvantaged  by the delay.  I 
thought it was fair that Mrs A was invoiced for this refurbishment cost.
I had no evidence  about how or where the car was stored throughout the time it was kept at 
the dealership.  I thought  it was more likely  than not that it was parked on the forecourt. 
Looking at the dent to the wing (a deep scratch that appears on the wheel arch)  and the 
dent to the bumper  I thought this type of damage was more likely to have occurred when the 
car was parked  rather than being  driven. It was the type of damage that would result from 
other cars being  parked  too close. And as the car had been  parked for several weeks  on a 
forecourt that was probably busy at times  with other  cars being moved I was satisfied that it 
was more likely than not that this damage  happened while  the car was at the dealership. 
This meant it had been outside  of Mrs As control at the time. So I didnt think it was fair for 
these two amounts  to be included in the refurbishment invoice and they should  have  been  
deducted.
So looking  at the evidence, I was satisfied  that the agreement  was treated by VWFS as 
ended by VT in April 2018 after which Mrs As responsibility for the car had ended.  Taking 
into the account the time that passed between Mrs A handing  the car to the dealership and 
it being inspected  I thought it was more likely than not that the dent to the wing and damage  
to the bumper occurred  while  it was no longer Mrs As responsibility. She was however 
responsible for the cost of refurbishing the alloy wheel and for the damage  to the 
windscreen albeit  limited to £90.
I intended to partially uphold Mrs As complaint. I required VWFS to amend the 
refurbishment invoice  to a total of £133.20  (£36 plus VAT for the alloy wheel and £90 for 
the windscreen). And for the other outstanding costs to be removed.
Mrs A has agreed with my provisional view. VWFS  hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been asked to look again  at my provisional view by either party and so I havent 
changed my mind. For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mrs As complaint 
and Im asking VWFS  to amend the refurbishment invoice to £133.20.
Ref: DRN87248296my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im partially  upholding Mrs As complaint.  Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to reduce the refurbishment  invoice to £133.20 
for the damage  to the alloy wheel  and windscreen.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8724829