K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mrs P says Lloyds  Bank plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs P took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1996. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover her repayments if she couldnt work.
Mrs P say she didnt know the PPI had been  added and she didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.  Mrs P disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. 
Mrs P would have filled out an application form to apply  for the credit  card and 
PPI. Ive seen a sample copy  of the form which was in use at the time. There  was 
a separate section  for the PPI which made it clear  it was optional. I think its likely 
Mrs P ticked  a box to say she wanted  it. And the PPI appeared each month on 
her statement,  so if she hadnt  chosen it I think shed have queried it when she 
saw the charge;
Lloyds say it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs P, so it had to check  that 
the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for 
the cover. Mrs P had some sick pay and a small amount held in joint savings. 
The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay. And it 
wouldve paid out for longer than her contractual full sick pay. 
Mrs P has told this service that she had life and critical illness  cover  which  
included accident,  sickness and redundancy cover.  This is very unusual as they 
are different types of policies. But Mrs P cant  remember  what  the benefit was 
and she doesnt  have any evidence of the policy, so I cant take it into account 
here. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
So I dont  think Mrs P lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds might have done wrong.
Ref: DRN84934132my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint so it follows  that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8493413