K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  gave him finance  
which was unaffordable
background
In March 2017 Mr T entered into a finance agreement to fund the acquisition  of a second 
hand car. The finance was for a sum of £13,189  and the monthly repayments were £245.86. 
Mr T was 18 and living at home.  He was earning £120 per week. His application was auto-
approved. Mr T made the payments, but his grandfather has explained that he had had to 
step in and cover these  for Mr T.
The car developed a gearbox problem which cost £4,460 to repair and the dealer  offered to 
cover half the cost. Mr T questioned whether VFS had carried  out proper affordability 
checks. It said that it had. The trained manager  at the dealership  had gone  through  a 
number of approved  questions  which had resulted  in the application being accepted without  
the need for further information. 
Mr T brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld. She asked VFS for details of the information Mr 
T had provided that allowed  the system to approve his application,  but these werent 
supplied. She said she would expect the business to enter into agreements responsibly by 
taking precautions to ensure that they are affordable  for consumers. She didnt think  that 
simply asking  Mr T if the agreement was affordable was sufficient.
The application form showed he was an apprentice and the payments amounted to half his 
monthly wage. Mr T had only managed to afford these with support from his grandparents 
who had borrowed money to help him out. They also helped  fund the cars  running costs.
She referred  to the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) handbook which sets out the rules 
and guidance  for lenders. These require the lender to consider the customers  ability to 
make repayments. She didnt think VFS had followed  these rules.
She explained that when  a business makes  a mistake, it was her role to make  a 
recommendation that puts the customer back into the position  they wouldve  been in had 
that mistake not happened  or as close to that position as reasonably possible. She said Mr 
T has had use of the car during this time, so she didnt think he should  be refunded the 
premiums he had paid.  So, she recommended  that VFS:
refund  any deposit that Mr T paid
cancel his agreement  and write  off the remaining balance
remove any information  that mightve been recorded from his credit file
pay Mr T £150 to recognise the inconvenience and stress this has caused him
collect the car from Mr T at no further  cost to him
VFS didnt  agree. It said Mr T had signed up to the agreement which confirmed it was 
affordable. It said Mr T was living at home with a relative and had zero financial 
commitments. It went on to explain that it didnt disclose its business  processes, but the 
correct questions were asked of Mr T. Mr T hadnt  raised any issues  of affordability until 14 
months into the agreement. It said that it seemed Mr T had an agreement with his 
Ref: DRN86880762grandparents to fund the car and he had six days to consider the agreement  before it was 
signed. It also question  the FCA extract quoted by the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since VFS dont disclose  its processes I cannot say what system allows an 18 year old to 
borrow money which would require him to spend  half his very small monthly income on loan 
repayments. I dont  find that a credible conclusion. Nor do I find it credible that it was 
presumed he would have no other  outgoings.  That presumes he lives the life of a hermit and 
spends no money whatsoever  or that he had an alternative source  of funding.
I also find it odd that the trained manager  didnt think to include  something for the running 
costs of the car. Insurance for an 18 year old is normally  pretty  expensive.  I suspect  it cost 
more each moth than the loan repayments.  I also presume the car was taxed, serviced, and 
filled with fuel.
The suggestion by VFS that Mr T had a pre-arranged agreement with his grandparents to 
fund the car is disingenuous. If it genuinely believed the grandparents were  to be the payers 
of the loan then the trained manager should have made them  party to the agreement. In fact 
what Mr T senior  has told us is that they helped their grandson out. There was no 
arrangement.
I agree  that the FCA extract used by the investigator  came  into force after this contract  was 
signed, but it doesnt change the substance of the rules as set out in the preceding version.  
That version also required the lender to take into account the the ability  of the customer  to 
make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit agreement . To do so it 
should carry out sufficient checks before lending.
I am satisfied that this loan was not affordable  and should never have been made.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
refund  any deposit that Mr T paid
cancel his agreement  and write  off the remaining balance
remove any information  that mightve been recorded from his credit file
pay Mr T £150 to recognise the inconvenience and stress this has caused him
collect the car from Mr T at no further  cost to him
this is subject to Mr T surrendering the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Ref: DRN86880763Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8688076