K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained  about a critical illness policy that was sold to her by Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G). She has said she didnt  need  the policy because 
she had ample cover  through her employer.
background
In May 2004, Mrs S took out a critical illness protection policy.  The sum assured was for
£30,000 and the term of the policy was for eighteen  years. She was 42 years  old at the time 
of the sale so this would  have taken her to around  retirement age.
L & G has said the policy was taken alongside a mortgage but this wasnt  the case. The 
policy was a standalone policy as the mortgage  was taken in 1997.
At the time of the sale Mrs S was a registered  nurse working for the NHS so she had 
significant pension  and benefits through the NHS as her employer. So she feels she had no 
need for the critical  illness  policy.
Mrs S also said that the amount of the benefit  under the critical illness policy  wasnt the 
amount she had remaining on her mortgage.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be 
upheld. She felt the benefits  Mrs S held through  the NHS meant that while the critical illness 
policy could have been beneficial, she didnt actually need  it because she already  held 
significant cover through her employer. She therefore recommended L&G refund the cost of 
the critical illness policy from outset  to date of cancellation, plus interest.
L & G didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the policy  was of use to 
Mrs S. It stated  that the sickness cover would  only have paid out for twelve months  and the 
income received  under  her employer benefits  would have been minimal  and wouldnt  have  
been sufficient  to be of use to her during a time when  she was unable  to work due to critical 
illness.
I issued my provisional findings on the matter in March  2019 where it set out why I disagreed 
with the investigator  and why I felt the complaint  couldnt be upheld.
An extract  is below and forms part of this final decision:
There is no doubt that Mrs S had significant benefits through her employer, and the 
payments her employer  would have made  if Mrs S was unable  to work due to illness are far 
more than I have  seen for the majority  of other professions.  Indeed  if Mrs S had become ill 
she could take her pension benefits immediately as a lump sum. Also if Mrs S was out of 
work due to sickness she would receive full sick pay and if she had to retire  early due to ill 
health, providing she had paid at least two years  membership to the scheme, she could take 
her pension benefits early. This would be for the membership period already built up plus an 
enhancement of two thirds of her prospective membership to normal  pension  age.
However, it can be seen that any payments made if Mrs S fell critically ill would be taken 
from her pension fund. So while the payments would be made in the event she became ill 
and couldnt work, when  Mrs S reached  retirement  age when she should have been taking 
Ref: DRN89182402her pension benefits through her employer,  this fund would be greatly reduced because  it 
would have been used earlier than retirement age. Therefore there is the risk that whatever 
she would  be in receipt of upon retirement if this situation occurred may not be enough and 
that, in my view, is a big risk to take.
With the policy in place, however, if Mrs S had to claim she would receive a £30,000 lump 
sum payment that could be used for anything  she needed, to support a standard  of living or 
to put by whilst she used  other benefits being paid to her to top up her pension  fund 
available to take upon her retirement.  This would  ensure that her pension  fund wouldnt be 
diminished and she would  receive  the most she was entitled to upon  retirement  age.
As well as this, the policy  appears to have been  a standalone one, not sold in connection  
with any borrowing. Therefore this indicates  to me that in 2004 when Mrs S agreed to take 
the policy she actually  wanted a specific standalone critical illness  policy. Otherwise I can 
see no reason why she would have taken  it.
I fully appreciate the significant benefits Mrs S employer provided her with. And I know  that
it may feel like she has paid all this time for something she hasnt  benefited from. But the fact 
that any payments through her employer cover would have been taken from the pension pot 
concerns me for the reasons explained  above.  Therefore I do think the stand alone critical 
illness policy  she took out in 2004  would have been of use to her had she needed to claim
on the policy and was unable to work  due to critical illness.
L&G accepted the findings of the provisional  decision but didnt provide any comments.
Mrs S didnt agree with the findings and provided  the following comments:
She didnt request  critical  illness policy; this was advised by a representative for L&G 
several years after having taken  out a mortgage.  
There was no discussion about  any financial  alternatives  that she may have had and 
the NHS  pension would have been  available should she have become unwell.  While  
this was never investigated how can it be said that the funds from this would be 
lessened by retirement age and that this would be too big a risk to take.  
Given the NHS pension wasnt discussed  she feels she wasnt given the opportunity 
to decide on that risk and at the end of the day, that should be her decision to take or 
not. 
She had an endowment policy which  was not linked to the current mortgage  which  
would have been available should she have  become unwell.
She agreed that critical  illness cover is in most circumstances beneficial but should 
she have become unwell during the period  of the policy she would have had 
sufficient funds  to be able to manage her financial situation.
Her husband was working and earning an income, so they had substantial  savings 
that couldve been used if required.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN89182403I know Mrs S has said there was no discussion around her NHS benefits and pension. I dont 
know for certain whether this was the case,  but if it was, while  this is disappointing, part of 
me making  my findings is to consider whether regardless  of whether a discussion took place, 
was the policy suitable in light of the employer benefits she held.  As stated in my provisional 
decision I think the policy was suitable  for her because any payment made under her 
benefits would have come  from Mrs Ss pension which was designed ultimately to provide 
her with an income when  she retired. Given her earning ability  would have diminished at this 
point in time it really  is important to ensure the pension benefits  were as much  as they 
possibly could be. I know Mrs S has questioned whether the sickness benefits would have 
been taken from her NHS pension pot but this is the information she has given us in the 
process of making  the complaint so I dont think she can dispute  it. Also,  its important to say 
that it was up to Mrs S to have mentioned these benefits to the adviser when  she was taking 
out the policy if she wanted them to be considered  as part of the sale.
While Mrs S has spoken about an endowment policy,  I am unsure why she feels this would 
have paid out if she became ill because,  normally, endowment policies only pay out upon 
death. And again, as mentioned above,  if this was in place  this should have been something 
Mrs S mentioned to L&G at the time of the sale if she wanted this to be considered.
I know Mrs S has said it was for her to decide whether to take the risk of receiving a 
diminished pension  benefit or not. However,  this is part of my suitability assessment which  is 
the basis of this decision. As the policy is in place, it is for me to ascertain whether Mrs S 
had a use for the policy or not, and this includes whether not having  such a policy could 
have been detrimental for her.
I appreciate Mrs Ss husband was working  and earning an income, however this doesnt 
make the policy  she was recommended unsuitable. There  is no guarantee that his earnings 
would provide the necessary financial cover  that could have been needed. Peoples 
circumstances change  all the time so having the policy  in place provided an element of a 
guarantee with regards  to a lump sum payment being made during a time which undoubtedly 
would have been difficult.
Overall therefore, whilst I know this will be disappointing for Mrs S I think the policy was of 
use to her despite the other cover  she had in place through her employer. Not having the 
policy could have left her in a difficult  financial position at retirement. And while I know  she 
hasnt had to claim  on the policy it would have  paid out had she needed  to. This is after all, 
the nature  of insurance cover.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8918240