K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains about how U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line Insurance) (UKI) 
has settled a claim that was made on her car insurance policy  following an accident in 2017. 
Shes unhappy that it has agreed to accept  liability and settle  the damages claimed by the 
third party.
Miss D is being assisted by her mother Mrs D, so Ive referred  to both throughout my 
decision. I should also mention that my decision solely relates to the liability  dispute and the 
customer service  issues  (including delays)  following the claim being made. Miss D has 
referred a separate complaint about the quality of repairs  carried out following this incident. 
An ombudsman will issue a separate decision in relation to that.  
background
In September  2017, whilst navigating around a roundabout, Miss Ds car collided with a lorry. 
As she was approaching the roundabout, Miss D was in the right hand lane and behind the 
lorry that was in the left hand lane.  Both she and the lorry driver continued around the 
roundabout at the first exit, but the lorry driver didnt indicate when he decided to continue 
further on at the second exit. The lorry entered Miss Ds lane resulting in a collision.
When Miss D contacted UKI to report the incident, she explained  the lorry driver told her at 
the time in his limited English, I late, I hit you, it your fault sic]. As part of her submission, 
Miss D also provided the dash camera video footage of the collision. Both Miss D and Mrs D 
strongly felt it showed the lorry driver was at fault since he deliberately  encroached Miss Ds 
lane without any indication. 
There were numerous  conversations between Mrs D and UKIs representatives after the 
initial claim notification call. It wasnt until later that UKI informed  Mrs D it wasnt  going to 
dispute liability and would  therefore settle  the third party claim. It explained the lorry requires 
more room to manoeuvre and the Highway Code states drivers must allow larger  vehicles 
more room to manoeuvre. It believed the footage  showed this didnt happen. But it paid a 
total compensation of £320   an initial  amount of £120 followed  by a further £200  for poor 
service.
Mrs D disagreed with UKIs  decision. She felt it had focused on a specific part of the relevant 
section of the Highway Code and not read in its entirety. She was also unhappy with the 
delays involved in considering Miss Ds claim. And during this time UKI had given her 
reassurances that Miss D wasnt at fault and that it would take the third party  driver  to court. 
Mrs D also pointed out that shed shown the footage to a retired  police officer who also 
concluded Miss D couldnt  be entirely at fault. Unhappy  with UKIs findings, Mrs D asked us 
to get involved.
Our investigator concluded UKI hadnt  acted unfairly. He explained  Miss Ds policy stated it 
was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. And that it wasnt our services  role to decide  on 
liability, but to consider  whether UKI had taken all the available  evidence into account in 
reaching its decision. Our investigator was satisfied  it did. He also thought  the compensation 
it had offered Miss D for the delay and customer service was fair (although  he only took into 
account the £200 compensation at the time of making his findings).
But Mrs D disagreed with the investigators findings.  She felt UKI was hiding behind its terms 
and conditions. Mrs D didnt think the investigator  had taken the time to fully review the facts 
Ref: DRN83047352and the false reassurances  Direct  Line had given her. Mrs D asked  for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below.
I would firstly like to reassure Mrs D, Miss D and UKI that although I have only summarised  
the background and arguments above, I have considered everything I have been provided 
with in its entirety.
It isnt my role to determine who was actually liable for the accident at the heart of this 
dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding  here is whether UKI has 
acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with 
the claim fairly. 
The starting point  is the agreement  between  Miss D and UKI  the policys  terms and 
conditions. These include  a provision that entitles UKI to take over and deal with a claim in a 
policyholders name.  Similar  provisions  are found in all motor  insurance policies Ive seen 
and I dont find it unusual  or surprising.
So under the terms of the policy UKI can decide whether to defend a claim or settle  it. That 
might mean it makes  a decision Miss D and Mrs D disagree with, as has happened here. But 
the terms and conditions of the policy allow UKI to make such  a decision. 
I know Mrs D is unhappy UKI quoted the Highway Code (the Code) but missed  out half of it. 
She feels theres a breach  of Rule 187  Watch out for their signals  as the lorry driver 
never indicated. Instead, he cut in front of Miss D without any warning. Ive carefully 
considered Mrs Ds comments. Ive also watched the dash cam footage. It is true that the 
footage doesnt show the lorry driver  indicating  as he continues on the roundabout  (this 
possibility is warned of in Rule 185). So I accept he could have indicated. But Rule 187 of 
the Code also explains that long vehicles,  like lorries, may have to take a different course  or 
straddle lanes when approaching or on the roundabout. And that in all cases drivers should  
watch out for and give plenty of room to long vehicles.  Having carefully  watched the footage 
myself, I dont think that happened in this case. 
So I think it was right that the matter was referred  to its legal team  for an opinion  on whether 
or not there was any prospect of success if the matter  was taken to court. They  believed  
Miss D would be held liable. Im satisfied  it was fair for UKI to rely on the advice of its legal 
team - as I consider  they would have experience of how courts  would view circumstances 
such as these. And by settling the matter when  it did, UKI saved incurring court costs. I 
would also add that UKI agreed settlement on a without prejudice  basis, meaning it hasnt 
admitted Miss D was liable for the accident,  so she is still able to pursue  legal  avenues  
should she wish to do so. 
I turn now to whether UKI has dealt with Miss Ds claim  fairly and reasonably. 
I can see from the file information  that UKI was originally  going to hold the other driver liable 
for the accident.  It was only after the third party insurer  reviewed the footage that UKI was 
told liability  would be disputed. So I dont think it was wrong to proceed  on the basis it did to 
Ref: DRN83047353that point. And once  it knew  the third party insurer was disputing  liability they involved their 
legal team. Given the circumstances  of the accident, I find it was fair for UKI to refer the 
matter for an opinion on the prospects  of succeeding in court. 
I appreciate Mrs D says her colleague,  whos a retired police officer, feels there is an 
excellent case to take it to court.  But as Ive explained, it would be for a court  of law to 
decide liability. What  Ive looked at here is whether or not UKI has taken  everything  into 
account when  deciding on Miss Ds claim. Im satisfied it has. I know  Mrs D feels very 
strongly about this. But considering the overall circumstances of this complaint, I dont think 
UKI dealt  with the claim unfairly.
Finally, I can see UKI has accepted things didnt always go as expected   it has accepted 
there were customer service issues as well as delays. For this it has apologised and paid 
£320 in compensation to Miss D. I understand  the two cheques totalling  this amount have 
been cashed. Having considered everything, I find UKIs offer for the service failings to be a 
fair one. So I wont  be making an additional  award.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304735