K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
he made on his home insurance policy. 
background
Mr A has a home  insurance  policy with Lloyds. He says that whilst he was at work and his 
wife was taking  their child to school, his house  was burgled. He says his wife discovered  this 
and contacted him, causing him to rush home. He noticed his bedroom door, which  he kept 
locked, had been broken  down and jewellery  had been taken from the wardrobe.  He later 
noticed other items were missing. He says he called the police the following day to report  
this. And he contacted Lloyds to claim for the items he says were  stolen.
Lloyds arranged for its representative  and then a loss adjustor to visit Mr A to gather details 
about his claim. Following  this it asked him for further information based  on inconsistencies 
in what he had told both Lloyds representative  and the loss adjustor. These specifically 
relate to what he had told them about  the intruder alarm, the date he had contacted the 
police and the items he was claiming  for.
Mr A initially  told Lloyds  hed contacted  the police straightaway after his home had been 
burgled on 4 July 2018 and this is the date the police report  recorded the burglary as 
happening. However Mr A then told the loss adjustor it took place on 3 July and hed delayed 
reporting it for a day. 
When asked about this Mr A confirmed  the dates hed initially  given Lloyds were correct. 
Then Mr A later said the burglary actually took place on 3 July and he told the police the day 
after and that he had an email from the police to support  this. But Lloyds said this isnt 
consistent with Mr As phone records. 
When Lloyds asked  Mr A to explain this he said hed been shocked, as hes never been 
burgled before.  And when it asked why Mr A didnt call the police immediately as hed initially  
said, he explained hed wanted to check what was missing first. He also told us he didnt 
want the police to attend when his daughter was at home.
Mr As claim to Lloyds is for more items  than he reported stolen to the police, including £420 
cash, a mobile  phone, a portable tablet and more  jewellery. Lloyds asked 
Mr A how this had come  about when he said hed waited to call the police so he could check  
what was missing. Mr A said he told the police  about  some  things, as he didnt  know  where 
everything was kept. And he got in touch with Lloyds after checking  and finding other  items  
werent where hed left them.  
In relation to the intruder alarm, Mr A initially said when  his wife returned  to the property she 
found it going off. And after being  asked why no one else heard it  particularly given that 
Mr As family lives next door, he said it wasnt going  off and only beeping as usual. Mr A also 
said the alarm doesnt always work.  And he told us its only connected to the front door and 
he thinks the burglar  came through the window.  
After considering Mr As responses, Lloyds said it wouldnt  pay his claim due to significant 
discrepancies in his testimony. 
Ref: DRN81354742Mr A complained to our service. Our investigator reviewed the complaint,  but said Lloyds 
had acted fairly in declining the claim. Mr A didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As testimony about the timeline and date of loss has changed more than once. Ive 
thought about this carefully and taken  into account  that it can be very stressful discovering a 
burglary. Some confusion  about what happened and when isnt unexpected and doesnt 
necessarily mean a claim will fail for this alone. 
However, there are a number of other discrepancies in this case which  I dont think  Mr A has 
adequately explained. 
The date on which Mr A says the burglary occurred  has changed  since he first made the 
claim. In discussing the complaint, Mr A has variously said that it occurred on 3 July and on 
4 July. This is not a detail that I would expect there to be much confusion  about. I can see 
why Lloyds is frustrated  that Mr A has changed his mind more than once about when the 
burglary occurred  and when he then reported  it to the police. I can see why this has raised 
questions about  the validity of his claim.
Mr A says he waited a day to report the burglary to the police. When asked why this was, he 
says its because he didnt want the police there when his child was there. But he also told 
the insurance company that his wife had been  away from the house taking their child to 
nursery when the burglary occurred. So it seems she wouldnt have been  there.  I have noted 
that the police report  has since been amended  to show a different date  the date Mr A now 
says the burglary happened   but this doesnt adequately explain why he waited a day 
before calling the police.
In relation to the items reported stolen, it isnt unusual  not to pick up on all missing  items 
straightaway. But, having said that, Mr A says all the items stolen were in or around the 
wardrobe in the bedroom, which he said is always locked. One of the main  reasons Mr A 
gave for delaying calling the police was so he could  check what was missing - he wanted  to 
check his other usual hiding places. Given the stolen  items were kept in one locked room by 
Mr A, its reasonable to think  he wouldve been  able to check what  was missing and whether 
the items  had just been moved by family members before he called the police. I think there  
was enough time for Mr A to do that in the circumstances. Given  Mr A says that that hed 
waited a day before calling  the police, I think its reasonable to expect he would know  what 
was missing by then.
As the policyholder, Mr A has to satisfy Lloyds that an insured event (in this case, theft) has 
occurred. Lloyds has said that, based on the evidence presented, its not satisfied that a loss 
has occurred in the way Mr A said, based  on the date and extent of loss. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think Lloyds concerns  are reasonable. Mr A hasnt  been  
able to adequately explain these inconsistencies to satisfy Lloyds that a theft has occurred  
and in the way Mr A says it has. Im satisfied Lloyds made its concerns about these 
inconsistencies clear  to Mr A, and, in the way Id expect, it provided opportunities for him to 
explain them. But he hasnt been able to do so adequately.
Ref: DRN81354743Considering everything  I have been presented with by both parties, I understand why Lloyds 
isnt satisfied that Mr A has evidenced that he has a claim under his policy.  Given that, I 
dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to ask further questions of Mr A and to decline his claim 
based on the inconsistencies  in his testimony and his subsequent explanations. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8135474