K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of himself and his family  that AXA Insurance UK Plc wouldnt 
consider his travel insurance claim and that the policy wording was unclear.
background
Mr C took out a travel insurance policy for his family  from AXA.
The family were due to go on holiday and fly from Inverness  to Gatwick before then flying to 
Tenerife. Unfortunately, the flight from Inverness  was cancelled  and so Mr C and his family 
would have missed  their onward flight to Tenerife.
Mr C then booked return flights from Edinburgh  to Tenerife, driving to Edinburgh airport  and 
incurring additional  parking costs.
Mr C tried to claim on his travel insurance  policy  for the new flights,  travel  to Edinburgh, 
additional car parking at Edinburgh, missed car parking at Inverness and a pre-booked  hotel 
at Gatwick. 
AXA said it wouldnt consider the claim on the basis that the excess on Mr Cs policy  for 
missed departures was more than the claim being  made. It also said the policy  didnt have 
travel disruption cover  (TDC) so it couldnt consider the claim under that cover.
Mr C complained to AXA saying that he thought the policy wording and insurance certificate 
were misleading and it wasnt clear the excess was payable per person. Mr C also believed 
he had TDC due to an advertisement he had seen  on the website near to the time of 
purchase of the policy.
In response AXA said that if Mr C had TDC it would have been  indicated on the policy 
schedule he was sent. AXA said that the policy documents  showed that the excess was 
payable per person  per claim. And so, they were correct in not considering his claim. 
Mr C didnt agree with AXAs response and so brought his complaint to us. I sent my 
provisional decision to Mr and Mrs C and AXA on 11 March  2020. I said that AXA acted fairly 
in several areas but it should consider each family members individual claims. Ive copied  
my provisional findings below.
my provisional findings
Mr Cs complaint about the advertisement of TDC cover has been dealt with in a separate  
complaint. So, my role in this case is to consider if AXA acted in a fair and reasonable way in 
deciding not to consider Mr Cs claim.  And that the policy documents they sent him were 
clear and not misleading.
Mr C felt that it wasnt clear that the excess level was payable  per person. So, I have 
considered if AXA set this out clearly in the policy documents.
AXA and Mr C have supplied the policy summary and cover policy wording  documents.  
In both documents are tables for the schedule  of benefits. Next to the word  excess there is 
an asterisk.  The asterisk is defined as excess the amount stated in the schedule of benefits 
above that you will be responsible for paying under each section, by each insured person, 
Ref: DRN83640662per incident  in the event of a claim unless  you have paid the additional premium to waive  the 
excess as stated in your policy schedule. Mr C is unhappy that the schedule  of benefits is 
actually located  below  the text. And yet the text itself suggests the schedule of benefits  is 
above. 
Although I can see Mr Cs point, I think that a reasonable person would be able to locate the 
asterisk and understand its meaning  here. There is no other schedule of benefits which  
could confuse  the reader  and no other  asterisk  on the page.  It may be an error, but Im not 
persuaded that this would lead to any substantial level of confusion. So, I dont think  AXA 
misled Mr C.
Mr C also feels  that its unfair to have to pay the excess for his children and that the level of 
excess was too high for a policy which was designed for European travel. Mr C bought his 
insurance on a non-advised basis  meaning that AXA didnt advise him or recommend the 
product to him. So, AXA didnt have to make  sure the policy was right for Mr C and his 
family. But AXA did have  to give Mr C enough information that was clear,  fair and wasnt 
misleading. 
The table of benefits clearly sets out the level of excess  payable under each section of the 
policy. I dont think this information is in any way misleading or unclear. And, as I have said 
Mr C bought the policy on a non-advised basis so I cant hold AXA responsible if Mr C feels  
the excess on the policy wasnt right for him.
The policy schedule sent to Mr C shows each family  member as a policy  holder.  But Mr C 
feels that a child shouldnt be a policy holder. However, as Mr C wanted the children to be 
covered by the policy, I think its fair that they are shown as such. And when Mr C made a 
claim, he was claiming for his childrens  flights  which  was a cost directly  linked to those 
policy holders. So, I dont think AXA were unreasonable to say that the excess would apply  
to the childrens flights. 
Mr C thought that he had TDC cover but the table of benefits  shows  that this section of cover  
are optional. Your policy schedule will show if you have selected any of these options As 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy schedule didnt show that he had TDC cover, I think AXA made it clear 
that TDC wasnt included on Mr and Mrs Cs policy. And so, it follows, I dont think  AXA 
acted unfairly in not assessing the claim against TDC. 
AXA have said that they assessed  the claim against  the missed  departure section of the 
policy. But it wouldnt cover the unused car park and hotel, as the policy  only covered 
additional expenses  in reaching the destination  and not reimbursement of unused  hotels and 
parking. I think AXA did assess Mr Cs claim against the correct section of the policy as I 
cant see any other areas that covered  his circumstances.
The missed  departures section covered  additional accommodation and travel in reaching  the 
destination. Mr C made  a claim for £621 for the alternative flights he booked however  this 
included return flights which werent  covered  under this section of the policy. So, AXA said 
the claim should be half that amount  at £310.50. They  later also considered the additional  
parking at Edinburgh airport of £99.99.  AXA said that the excess totalled £800 so the claim 
was within  the excess and they wouldnt consider it. However, when looking at the individual 
circumstances of this case Im not persuaded that this approach  is necessarily fair. 
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN83640663When AXA grouped  the whole claim together  it fell within the excess. However, if AXA were  
to separate Mr and Mrs Cs individual claims the total may exceed the excess. AXA should  
consider Mr and Mrs Cs individual  outbound  flights.  As quite often the outbound and 
inbound flight cost can vary, and the childrens flights may have  cost less. So, Mr and Mrs C 
should evidence  the actual cost of their outbound flights.  
AXA should  also consider any evidence of the additional parking incurred and the mileage 
cost between Inverness  airport  and Edinburgh airport.  AXA have said they dont usually pay 
for mileage in these  circumstances. However, I dont think thats fair. The missed departures 
section of the policy says that AXA will pay for reasonable  additional  travel  expenses in 
reaching the overseas destination. In order to catch the new flight, Mr and Mrs C had to drive  
over 150 miles and pay to park their car at Edinburgh airport.  So, Mr or Mrs C have incurred 
petrol costs  as well as general mileage expenses on the car and parking fees. I think  these 
were a reasonable additional travel expense, as Mr and Mrs C had limited options at the 
time. 
Given what Ive said, the total of Mr or Mrs Cs individual  claims might exceed the £200 
excess and if so, AXA should pay them the difference. I know that Mr and Mrs C are likely to 
remain disappointed, as the claim is unlikely to be significantly higher than the excess. 
However, I think this represents a fair resolution  in all the circumstances.
 
Mr C feels that the policy  documents layout  is misleading for several  reasons, for example 
the use of bold text in titles as well as being used  for defined terms. Whilst its not my role to 
tell AXA how they should present its documents, I can consider  whether the documentation  
was clear. And Ive done so. But having seen Mr Cs policy  documents Im not persuaded 
that they were  unclear or misleading  in the way they are laid out. The bold text used in the 
schedule and policy summary is used for both defined terms and titles,  but I dont think it 
changes how the document is interpreted.  The titles are clear that they are titles and the 
defined terms are later defined.  
Mr C has made various comments about  AXAs relationships  within the insurance market. 
I would confirm that this service isnt the appropriate  organisation to consider those 
concerns. We are an alternative dispute  resolution  service and so deal with each complaint 
referred to us on its individual merits. Mr Cs concerns about industry practice would be more  
appropriately directed to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
the response to my provisional  decision
AXA have accepted that petrol charges should be covered  in the claim as they form part of 
the travel  costs to reach the destination. AXA have also said that Mr and Mrs C would need  
to provide evidence  of the breakdown of the flights to enable them to consider the claim 
further.  
Mr C has raised  several points. The key points he made  are;
Mr C feels  that the policy was advised to them, as it was advertised  as being suitable  
for a family to travel  to Europe and he says it wasnt. 
Mr C says that they paid for the return flights because it was cheaper and safer to 
book return flights, as he was concerned the airline would  cancel the original return 
flights.
Mr C maintains that they should  have had TDC on his policy  and it wasnt  clear that 
he didnt. He explained several  reasons why he thought he had TDC.
Ref: DRN83640664Mr C says it may be difficult to evidence the cost of their flights due to the time that 
has now elapsed.
Mr C says that numerous small errors have shown that AXA did not use proper care 
in producing the documents which he says were misleading. In particular  the 
insurance certificate and schedule  where the words excess  level  werent in bold 
font. So Mr C believes, it couldnt  be read as the defined term excess  from the policy 
wording document  and should  be read as £200  in total.
Because of these  points, Mr C feels he was misinformed when making the decision to 
proceed with the policy. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings.
I appreciate the time Mr C has taken to prepare his response to my findings. Id like to 
assure him that Ive considered all of his comments carefully. But they havent changed my 
mind. Ill explain why. 
Mr C feels the policy  was advised to him as being a suitable policy,  due to the way it was 
advertised. When I say that the policy was non-advised, I mean  that Mr and Mrs C werent 
given advice by a representative  of AXA as to which policy they should take out. 
So Mr and Mrs C had a responsibility to look through  the policy literature to ensure it was 
right for them. Ive seen  the policy documents that AXA sent to Mr and Mrs C. 
The documents are quite  clear that the sum insured  for missed  departures was £250 with a 
£200 excess. Mrs C was asked in the welcome  letter to review the details carefully  and AXA 
gave the option of cancelling  the policy if they didnt feel it suited their familys needs.  So I 
dont think AXA acted  unfairly here.
Mr C says that he purchased the return flights as he thought it was a less expensive  option 
and he was concerned the airline would cancel the return flights  if they didnt take the 
outbound flights. Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs concerns, it wasnt something his family were  
covered for under the terms of their policy. So I cant say this is something AXA should 
reimburse him for.
Mr C also maintains that the insurance certificate  and schedule were misleading  for several  
reasons, including that the words excess level werent in bold font. 
I think its important to note that the insurance  certificate and schedule are meant  to be read 
along with the policy wording documents.  I say this because, the insurance  certificate  only 
shows the level of cover, which  is then further defined in the policy wording documents.  And, 
as I outlined in my provisional decision,  having reviewed  the documents  provided to Mr and 
Mrs C, Im satisfied they werent misleading.
On the insurance  certificate and schedule the title excess is in bold typeface, the certificate 
goes on to say excess level £200  which isnt in bold typeface. As Ive said in my provisional 
decision, I think the policy wording documents are clear that the excess  is payable per 
person. So, despite the use or not of bold font, I dont think its likely  the insurance  certificate  
could be interpreted to mean that the excess for Mr Cs policy  was £200 overall and not per 
person, as its explained several times with high prominence in the accompanying 
documents. 
Ref: DRN83640665Mr C feels that the certificate  should  indicate all of the sections of insurance  that his policy  
covered.  The  certificate states under level of cover - Orange Plus Annual Multi trip. I think  
that this level of cover is clearly defined in the policy wording  document  using tables of 
benefits. The certificate also had a section  for extra  cover selected which was labelled  
None. So, Im not persuaded that the document could mislead Mr and Mrs C into thinking 
they had anything other than Orange Plus Annual Multi trip cover with no extra  benefits.   
Having seen an advert on a website Mr C felt he should have  had TDC included  in his policy 
for free. But AXA werent responsible for the advert  Mr C saw, and so this is being  
addressed in a separate complaint against the other business involved. Ultimately, Mr and 
Mrs C didnt have TDC. And after reviewing the documents again, I dont think  that AXA 
misled Mr and Mrs C into thinking  they did have this cover.  So, I wont ask them  to consider 
his claim against TDC.    
If Mr C finds it difficult to evidence the breakdown of the cost of his flights then I would 
expect AXA to take a fair approach, taking into consideration any further  evidence  that 
Mr and Mrs C obtain.   
Overall, Ive not seen  any further evidence that persuades me to change my findings.
my final decision
For these reasons, and the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision,  my final 
decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I direct AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Consider Mr and Mrs Cs individual claims
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8364066