K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. handled  her travel insurance  claim and request  for assistance after she 
had an accident  abroad.  
References to Mapfre include its agents.  
Mrs Ps relative has brought her complaint on her behalf, but for simplicity Ill refer to all the 
comments as being Mrs Ps.
background
In September  2017 Mrs P had an accident  while on holiday  abroad.  She called Mapfre,  her 
travel insurer. 
Mapfre contacted  Mrs Ps doctors  abroad and in the UK. It said shed  not told it about all her 
medical conditions  so it said it would pay only a proportion of her claim.  It guaranteed 
payment of her expenses  on this basis, and when she was fit to fly it arranged for her to be 
brought back to the UK. 
Mrs P complained because she said not all medical  treatment abroad  had been  necessary, 
and her treatment had been unnecessarily  drawn  out. She also said Mapfres  service to her 
had been poor. 
Mapfre said it had based its decisions on the medical information it had received from 
Mrs Ps doctors abroad. It accepted it hadnt always replied to her relatives emails or kept 
them updated, and that it should have done  even  if it had nothing  to report. It offered her 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, which  it paid by way of a 
reduction in the amount it had paid on her behalf.  Unhappy with Mapfres response Mrs P 
came to us. 
Our adjudicator said Mapfre wasnt responsible for the medical care Mrs P had received 
abroad, and it had been entitled to rely on the information her doctors had given to it. Our 
adjudicator thought Mapfres offer to pay £200  compensation to Mrs P was fair. Mrs P didnt 
agree. She said that not enough had been  done to investigate the medical conditions  Mapfre 
was told about  on her repatriation to the UK. She believed a full medical  review  was required 
before a factual  decision  could  be made. So she asked that the case  be taken back to the 
beginning and reviewed  again. 
Our adjudicator explained that Mapfre wasnt required to investigate Mrs Ps medical 
conditions, and that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P made a separate earlier complaint to us about the proportion of her claim for medical 
and repatriation expenses  that Mapfre has asked her to pay. Our adjudicator has given 
Mrs P her opinion on that complaint and explained  why Mapfre had correctly  calculated the 
proportion of the claim shed have to pay. Following  that our adjudicator confirmed she 
Ref: DRN87123862would close the complaint  file on that complaint and she set up a new one about the sale of 
the policy (against  a different company).  That sale complaint was also not upheld.
My decision  in this complaint is confined to the issues  Mrs P raised  in her complaint form of 
5 October 2018 about Mapfres handling of the claim while she was abroad. 
Ive been sorry  to learn of Mrs Ps injury  abroad. Shes clearly  worried that she was treated 
unnecessarily by the hospital abroad  with a corresponding  increase in medical  costs.  
As our adjudicator has explained,  my role is to assess  whether  Mapfre dealt properly with 
Mrs Ps assistance claim while she was abroad  and in arranging her repatriation. It is not our 
role to undertake  a medical review  of Mrs Ps treatment. Mapfre wasnt responsible  for the 
medical investigations or treatment she received.
There were some acknowledged issues in updating Mrs Ps relative, which  Ill return to at the 
end of this decision. But having  carefully  considered all the evidence available  to me I think 
Mapfre took reasonable steps to deal with her assistance claim and to arrange  Mrs Ps 
repatriation. Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that Mapfre made detailed enquiries  of Mrs Ps doctors abroad. Mapfre was 
entitled to establish if the claim was covered under the policy.  It also needed to understand 
the arrangements necessary for her repatriation. This included questioning her doctor about 
the medical conditions she was being treated for, the diagnoses and the implications for her 
return journey to the UK. 
It seems  to me that Mapfre did receive  some  conflicting and confusing information from the 
overseas doctors.  But Mapfre properly  referred  all the medical reports  it received to its own 
medical panel, and those  reports  were  reviewed by its panel medical team  including its own 
medical doctors. That led to Mapfre asking  further detailed questions  so that it could 
establish Mrs Ps state of health and when  she would  be fit to fly back to the UK. 
Mapfre properly took into account the medical  advice from Mrs Ps overseas doctor about 
the medical requirements for her repatriation. The advice was that due to Mrs Ps complex 
medical needs  and in particular a lung condition   she would need to be brought  home  by 
way of sea level flying air ambulance. I think Mapfre acted properly in her best medical 
interests in following that advice.  And when she was fit to fly it made  timely arrangements  for 
her both to be brought home and admitted to hospital in the UK.
It did take some time for Mapfre to establish the level of cover for Mrs P, because it had to 
wait for her medical history to arrive from her GP. I think  it both asked for her medical  history  
and chased it in a timely  manner. On receipt it quickly  made  a decision about the 
proportionate settlement  it was offering under  the policy, and told her relative  its decision.  In 
the meantime,  it continued  to ask the appropriate  questions of her doctors  abroad. So the 
decision on cover  didnt  hold up Mrs Ps treatment or her repatriation.  
Mapfre has acknowledged  that it could have done more to keep Mrs Ps relative  updated, 
even if it didnt have  anything new to report.  But I think the £200  compensation it paid (by 
way of a reduction  in the amount due to it) was fair and reasonable. So, despite my natural 
sympathy for Mrs P who had a horrible experience abroad,  I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN87123863my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8712386