K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (BOS)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr Bs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £14.94  a month.  
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a computer operator. He has told us he was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying his mortgage should he be 
unable to work.  Mr B has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN81336812Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996, before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN81336813other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and BOS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither BOS nor Mr B have been  able to provide copies  of the paperwork from the time of 
sale. I dont think thats unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But it does 
Ref: DRN81336814mean I have limited information about  the sale, so I have to decide  what  I think is more likely 
based on the available evidence. 
Ive seen a screenshot of BOSs computer  records which show it asked Mr B a series  of 
questions in order to check whether  he was eligible for the cover and whether it was suitable 
for him based  on his circumstances  it also recorded his answers. So, I think its likely the 
PPI was discussed to some degree.  Ive also seen a copy of a claim  form Mr B completed  
sometime after taking the PPI. Mr B has explained hed only enquired  about making a claim  
at the time while he was on gardening leave but never actually  made a claim   but it does  
indicate he was aware he had PPI. Had he not agreed to take PPI, I wouldve expected him 
to have questioned it on discovery  of the PPI. 
Mr B says he didnt know the policy was optional, whereas BOS  says it wouldve made the 
optional nature of the PPI clear. Ive seen a number of cases where  BOS  sold PPI in branch 
and it usually made the optional nature of the PPI clear  as part of its usual process.  So, 
without any documentary evidence to support Mr Bs testimony, I havent seen enough to 
safely conclude that the PPI wasnt  presented as optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
Both BOS and Mr B agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr B. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr Bs financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application. But although  I can see BOS attempted  to check  whether Mr B 
had a need for the policy  by asking questions about his wider circumstances such  as any 
health issues  I dont think it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. I say this because I 
cant see for example  whether it asked him if he had an employee  benefits, or any other  
means he could use to make his monthly  mortgage  payments. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need for the policy   Mr B would not have received  any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and he 
Ref: DRN81336815told us he didnt have  any savings or other means he could fall back  on. The policy  
would have helped  Mr B manage the consequences  if Mr B was unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Bs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. Although Mr B told us he experienced a medical 
problem, this was diagnosed many  years after the sale.  
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr B be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr Bs circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr B be unable  to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BOS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr B all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN81336816-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BOS  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, Mr 
B would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN81336817As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BOS told him the exact premium  at the point Mr B applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr B would  have  been  told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with BOS  at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOS  made  clear  exactly what Mr B would  get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about what  
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury that 
Mr B got advice, treatment or counselling about  from a doctor during the period  of 12 
months before the start date where  that sickness, disease, condition or injury  recurs 
within 24 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr B was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr B wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr B might 
Ref: DRN81336818reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking out the policy,  Mr B, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Bs circumstances and the 
limited other means he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt working, on balance, I still 
think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
BOS may not have  told Mr B that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month  period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for  but he didnt 
have any other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr B would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr B be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr B was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN81336819Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr B compensation,  as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8133681