K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account.
background
Mr V told us that he moved  a large  amount  of money into his Santander account on 
25 March. Some of that was to go into a savings account with Santander, and some was to 
go into a savings account elsewhere. But his account was blocked,  without  any warning. 
Mr V called Santander, and it told him that he would  have to go into a branch, and provide 
proof of where this money  had come from. He said he did that on the following Monday, 26 
March. He said that he got a text the next day, saying that Santander would  suspend  his 
account, and would  cancel it in 60 days if it hadnt  received the information  it asked for. Hed 
already given that information in branch the day before, and it had been faxed to the relevant 
department then. 
Mr V rang again, and was told that the relevant department had only just got his proof  of 
income that morning.  Mr V said that he thought that this was a malicious act. He said that 
this was extremely stressful, and he was unable to sleep. He told us that he used up a day of 
holiday to go into the branch,  and he had to cancel a planned holiday later that week. He 
said that his account was only unblocked  on Wednesday 28 March. He told us that 
Santander had paid him £150 to cover  any incidental  costs, but he said that he thought he 
should be paid more, because his health had been  affected and hed been  forced  to take a 
day off work.  
Santander said it had blocked Mr V's account,  when some unusual transactions were 
attempted. It asked  him to come  into a branch, with photo ID and with proof of two amounts  
of money that had been paid into his account. He did that on 26 March, and the restrictions 
on his account  were removed on 28 March. Santander was sorry about the inconvenience 
this had caused Mr V, so it paid him £150 to make  up for that. 
Santander has told our service that when the documents  that Mr V brought to the branch 
were faxed through to its head  office, they went  to the wrong place. It forwarded those 
documents on by internal mail, which meant  they werent received in the right department  on 
the day that Mr V sent them. But it said it wouldnt necessarily have unblocked his account 
any faster  if this mistake  hadnt been  made. 
Mr V told us that he was worried about the wider  implications of what Santander had done. 
He said that he needs to have a credit check each time he applies for a job. And he said that 
hed tried to switch his account to another bank, but he hadnt been able to.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he could understand how 
frustrating this had been for Mr V. But he didnt think Santander had done  anything wrong 
when it blocked  his account. It had taken action to protect  both itself and Mr V. He said that 
the block was placed on Mr Vs account  on 25 March, and removed on 28 March. Our 
adjudicator said that the terms and conditions of Mr Vs account allow Santander to block  his 
account if it believes its necessary for security reasons. And he said a compensation 
payment of £150  for that was reasonable. 
Mr V didnt agree with that. He said that hed wasted a day of his holiday providing this 
evidence. And he said that he spent half a day making calls when  Santander wasnt able to 
Ref: DRN89290522unblock his account. Finally  he said hed missed a deadline at work, which led to further  
consequences. But our adjudicator didnt change his mind. He said that Santander  had 
apologised, and paid £150. A block on an account will always  be disruptive. He didnt think 
that the block had been  on for an unreasonable amount of time. 
Mr V still didnt  agree. He said that Santander couldve checked with the other  bank he made  
a transfer from. And he wanted to know what wouldve happened if there was money due to 
come out of this account while it was blocked. He also wanted to know  what law Santander 
relied on to block his account.  
Our adjudicator said that Santander had the right to make a commercial decision to block  an 
account based on the terms and conditions that Mr V agreed to. He said he would  now pass 
this case to an ombudsman for a final decision.  Then it came  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr V rang Santander because he was unable to use online banking. Santander does have 
the power under the terms  and conditions of Mr Vs account to place a number of blocks  on 
Mr Vs account, and that includes  suspending  Mr Vs access  to online banking to prevent 
suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of his account. But our service doesnt  just check 
that a bank has the right to do what its done. I also need to check  if the bank  acted fairly  and 
reasonably. And I think that Santander  acted  fairly  and reasonably in response to a large 
transaction on Mr Vs account. As our adjudicator has said, Santander acted to protect both 
itself and Mr V.
Mr V supplied Santander promptly with the information it requested.  Santander then took 
another two days  to unblock his account.  Mr V told us that another bank blocked  his account 
at the same  time, and that block was removed in a matter of hours. 
Santander has told us that it made a mistake, and the documents  that Mr V supplied  took a 
little longer to get to the right department I think its likely that if Santander hadnt made a 
mistake with where it sent his documents, Mr Vs account wouldve been unblocked a bit 
faster. But I think that the payment of £150  that Santander made to Mr V to say sorry for the 
inconvenience is the right amount to make  up for what has gone wrong here. 
Mr V has also told us that blocking his account was stressful and affected his health. He said 
it meant he had to take time off work,  and caused him wider  problems.  I think  that blocking 
an account is, unfortunately,  always going  to be inconvenient and stressful for customers. 
But I think that banks  do have to be able to take this step though, if theyre  going  to protect 
customers accounts. And Ive already said that I think  this was a reasonable step for 
Santander to take in this case.  
Mr V has asked  what wouldve happened if hed had direct debits coming out of his account  
while it was blocked.  That would depend  on the type of block that Santander had applied. 
But in this instance, he didnt have any direct  debits coming out of this account at that time. 
And I can only take account  of what has happened  in a case, not what mightve happened.
Ref: DRN89290523Mr V says that he needs to have a credit  check when he applies for jobs.  Ive not seen 
anything in what Santander has done that makes me think  his credit file would be affected. 
He also says that he has tried to transfer  to another bank, and hasnt been able to. Again, 
Ive not seen anything in what  Santander has done that makes me think another bank 
wouldnt open an account for him. 
I know that Mr V will be disappointed, but I think that Santander  has done enough to make  
up for the delay in unblocking his account. So I dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8929052