K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the MPPI.  
Mr R was sold a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP can be split into sections, namely 
Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of MMPPI), Life Cover  and Critical Illness Cover 
(CIC).
Mr R has complained about the MPPI  cover  so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  element of 
the package in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr R, he clearly 
feels very strongly about his complaint.  Ill explain the reasons for my decision below.
Mr R says that he didnt  know  he had MPPI, he says it was simply added  without his 
knowledge. But I think that its likely that the MPPI  was presented  as an optional  product, 
and that Mr R chose  to take it out. 
BoS isnt able to provide all the paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. But it has been  able to tell us a lot about its sales process  at the time, 
and provide copies of the type of paperwork Mr R wouldve had to complete. 
I know that Mr R doesnt  accept this as direct evidence of him choosing to take out MPPI  
but I havent seen anything  to suggest that BoS did anything differently than follow its usual 
process at the time. BoS has also provided copies of two letters  that were sent to Mr R. One 
before his mortgage commenced, and one shortly  after. The first letter thanks  him for 
choosing to take out MPPI  and that hes been accepted for cover. The second letter 
confirmed his policy was not in place,  and gave his cancellation rights. Had he not known 
hed taken MPPI, I think he wouldve questioned these letters at the time. 
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented 
as optional than not, although I can understand why Mr R may not remember this as it was 
so long ago. 
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr R so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr R about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think he chose to take it out - it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
Ref: DRN89498402was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, but these points dont change my decision  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr R some  of the commission he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Rs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission 
Mr R paid for the MPPI  he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8949840