K821x#15Complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020  concluding that Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld. I also set out what Barclays Partner  Finance  (BPF) should  do to put things right. I 
attach a redacted version of my provisional decision which  forms part of this final decision. 
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. BPF accepted my provisional decision.  Mr P didnt respond.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision. 
Fair compensation
To put things right I think  that BPF should:
1.Estimate the total achievable benefit  (benefit A) from savings and income from the 
panels over the term of the loan to calculate the monthly benefit  (benefit B) Mr P is 
likely to receive from the panels.
For the BPF loan:
2.BPF should calculate the total amount  borrowed (including interest  and other fees)  to 
pay for the solar  panels (cost A).
3.Refund the difference between what Mr P paid each month and benefit B, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of the overpayment until the date of settlement.
4.Calculate how much  of benefit  A Mr P has already paid and what  is left to pay 
(benefit C)
For the second loan: 
5Calculate how much  Mr P borrowed  (cost  B) (including interest and any other fees) 
when he refinanced, to pay off the BPF loan,
6Divide cost B by the term of the new loan to calculate Mr Ps monthly loan 
repayments (repayment  1) for the panels  alone,
7Divide benefit C by the term of the new loan on a monthly basis  (repayment 2), 
8Calculate any monthly overpayments  that the consumer has made  on the loan, 
(repayment 1 minus  repayment 2)
9Refund any overpayments that have been made,  plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of the overpayment until the date of the settlement.
Ref: DRN87700322Mr Ps second loan is still ongoing, so BPF should  calculate, and pay Mr P, the difference, if 
there is one, between the amount outstanding on his loan and what  there should have been 
if his panels were self-funding.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  to:
allow Mr P to keep the solar  panels,
follow the approach  I have described under the heading Fair compensation to 
calculate the refund Mr P is entitled to,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the payment until 
the date of the settlement; and,
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87700323Provisional decision
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy  with the response  of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading  as Barclays 
Partner Finance), following  a claim  against it under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 
(CCA).
Background
Mr P was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as M, which supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a subsequent meeting,  Mr P agreed to enter into a contract  with M for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system. To pay for this, he also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan 
agreement with Barclays  Partner  Finance (BPF).
Mr P made a claim  under  Section 75 (s75) of the CCA. He said that M had told him that the solar 
panel system would be self-funded and that his monthly loan repayments would  be more than off-set 
by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. But that hadnt happened. Instead,  his monthly  loan repayments 
had been much higher  than the FIT payments he had received.
BPF looked into Mr Ps complaint. It agreed that the benefits of the solar  panels  had been 
misrepresented to him. BPF calculated the total income  and savings  to Mr P, from the solar panels, 
over the term of the loan. It then restructured the loan over its original term to ensure  he would pay no 
more than that. When it did its calculation, BPF worked out that Mr P had paid it less than the 
expected benefits he was due to receive. This was because  he had refinanced  his BPF loan with 
another provider at a lower  interest rate.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. She felt that BPF should take the second loan into account  when 
working out the overall amount that Mr P had paid for the solar panels. As a gesture of goodwill, BPF 
agreed to do this.
Mr P didnt accept the offer. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to review. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr P says that he was cold-called by M and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the solar 
panels would be entirely self-financing. Neither BPF nor Mr P dispute that M misrepresented the 
benefits of the solar panel  system and as a result  this decision  will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses  providing 
financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking  account of the particular circumstances.  
Ive considered whether  it would be fair and reasonable  for Mr P to be put back in the position he 
wouldve been  in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here I dont think it would  be fair 
or proportionate to arrange for the removal of the solar panel system from his home. I think  a fair 
outcome here is to put Mr P in a position where his solar panel system is self-funding over the original 
term of the loan. By allowing Mr P to keep the panels, Im satisfied  that he will likely  benefit  from lower 
electricity bills and FIT payments going forward. 
Ref: DRN87700324BPFs current offer is to make Mr Ps solar panel system self-funding over the original term of the 
loan. To do this, it has calculated the expected income and savings to him over the original term of 
the loan and has said it will restructure the loan so he would pay no more  than this over the 10 year 
term. Usually, I would consider this to be fair and reasonable as it would mean that the system  would 
be cost neutral to Mr P over the term of the loan.
BPF has calculated that the income and savings  that Mr P will receive over the 10 year fixed  sum loan 
agreement will be £7,948.16. It has said that he will pay a total of £8,375.80 towards  his solar  panel  
system and will refund  him the difference as a gesture of goodwill. BPF has taken into account  the 
additional loan Mr P took out when  he refinanced his BPF loan when working out the total amount he 
will pay for his panels.
However, here Im not satisfied that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome. The offer from BPF,  
to make the solar panel  system cost neutral, has purely  looked  at the total amount  Mr P will pay for 
his solar panel system with both the BPF loan and the second loan. It has then offered  to pay him the 
difference between this amount and the overall  income and savings it has estimated he will receive 
over 10 years.
This approach  doesnt  take into account  that Mr P may have been paying  more  each month than he 
should have done. Mr Ps monthly loan repayments to BPF were  £85.27. Based on the total benefit 
BPF has calculated he should have  only been  paying approximately £66.23 a month.
I think  BPF should calculate and refund Mr P the difference between  what  he has paid each month 
and what he wouldve  paid if his solar  panel system had been self-funding. In addition  to this, it should 
also refund  him 8% simple  interest on any overpayments he has made  from the date of the 
overpayment until the date of the settlement.  
Mr P refinanced his BPF loan to a lower interest rate and I would consider this to be a reasonable 
decision for him to make.  I think, on the balance  of probabilities, Mr P decided to refinance his BPF 
loan as it was clear  that the financial benefits he received from the solar panels werent sufficient to 
meet his contractual monthly loan repayments. Therefore, he was trying to reduce his losses by 
refinancing to a different  loan provider at a lower interest rate.
As BPF has already accepted that it was the misrepresentations made by M that the solar panel 
system would  be self-funding that induced Mr P into entering the contract with M, Im satisfied that it 
is liable for the additional costs Mr P incurred  by trying to reduce his losses, by borrowing  money  
elsewhere to refinance  his BPF loan.
Fair compensation
For the reasons  Ive given above Im satisfied that BPF should take into account Mr Ps second loan 
when calculating its offer to make his solar panel system self-funding. Ill now move on to what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
To put things right I think that BPF should:
5.Estimate the total achievable benefit (benefit A) from savings and income from the panels  
over the term of the loan to calculate the monthly benefit (benefit B) Mr P is likely to receive 
from the panels.
For the BPF loan:
6.BPF should calculate the total amount  borrowed  (including interest and other fees)  to pay for 
the solar panels (cost A).
7.Refund the difference between what Mr P paid each  month  and benefit  B, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of the overpayment  until the date of settlement.
8.Calculate how much of benefit A Mr P has already paid and what is left to pay (benefit C)
Ref: DRN87700325For the second loan: 
10Calculate how much Mr P borrowed (cost B) (including interest and any other  fees) when he 
refinanced, to pay off the BPF loan,
11Divide  cost B by the term of the new loan to calculate Mr Ps monthly  loan repayments 
(repayment 1) for the panels alone,
12Divide  benefit  C by the term of the new loan on a monthly basis (repayment  2), 
13Calculate any monthly  overpayments that the consumer has made on the loan, (repayment  1 
minus repayment 2)
14Refund any overpayments that have  been  made, plus 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment until the date of the settlement.
Mr Ps second  loan is still ongoing, so BPF should calculate, and pay Mr P, the difference, if there is 
one, between  the amount outstanding on his loan and what there should  have been if his panels were  
self-funding.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submission I should  receive  from either party by 13 September  2020, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, Im minded to require Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited to:
allow  Mr P to keep the solar panels,
follow the approach I have described  under  the heading Fair compensation to calculate the 
refund Mr P is entitled  to,
add 8% simple interest*  to any overpayment made from the date of the payment until the date 
of the settlement; and,
*If Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr P how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr 
P a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8770032