K822xcomplaint
Miss M has complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  has unfairly 
increased her home insurance premiums and not offered cheaper, alternative cover.
background 
Miss M took out a home insurance policy in the early 1980s.  The policy was branded as 
being provided by one business, but it was underwritten  by different insurers  over the time 
Miss M held the policy. By 2002 St Andrews underwrote the contents  insurance and in 2003 
it took over the underwriting of both buildings and contents insurance. I dont have the cost 
of the policy  in the early years, but in 2003 it was £221.96. In 2016  that had risen  to £335.77, 
which included a no claims discount and offered unlimited building cover. When Miss M 
shopped around, she found she could get a policy that was around £200  which  she thought  
offered a similar level of cover.
Miss M contacted St Andrews about  the lower  price shed been quoted elsewhere and 
St Andrews  offered to lower her premium to £260. Miss M thought  this was too expensive, 
so she took out insurance with another provider. When she called to cancel  her policy,  
St Andrews  offered an alternative policy for around £160  Miss M didnt take out this policy.
Miss M complained to St Andrews about the price increases as she thought shed  been  
overcharged for several years,  despite  her circumstances not changing and her not making 
any claims under the policy. She asked St Andrews to refund the extra  she thought  shed 
been overpaying for her insurance.
St Andrews  said it had priced Miss Ms policy fairly. It said it was able to offer a loyalty  
discount to her to reduce the cost of her policy, but this wasnt  automatic and was something 
that it offered  when  Miss M called  about  the price. But it agreed to offer £200 to Miss M as it 
should have made her aware of the cheaper, alternative policy  when she first called in 2016 
and not when she later called  to cancel.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  St Andrews needed to do 
anything further.  She didnt think the evidence showed that St Andrews  had unfairly raised 
the price of Miss Ms insurance.  But she did think St Andrews should  have offered the 
alternative policy when  Miss M first made  contact  in 2016. On balance, our investigator  
thought the £200  offered  was fair.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators  view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator for the same reasons. 
Ill explain  why.
In this decision Ive only considered the price St Andrews charged  for the insurance. I know 
Miss M has concerns about the way the insurance  was sold to her. But the policy  was sold 
by a different  business, so St Andrews isnt responsible for that.
Ref: DRN82027832The Financial Ombudsman  Service was set up to resolve individual complaints between 
consumers and financial businesses  and our role isnt to regulate the insurance  industry.  So 
I dont have the power to tell St Andrews how it should operate or what it should charge for 
insurance. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Miss M fairly  over the period 
she held insurance.  And if I dont  think she was treated fairly, Im able to tell St Andrews to 
put right any unfairness.
If a consumer doesnt engage  with their insurer about the cost of insurance, its possible  that 
an insurer might  take advantage  of this to increase the price  of the policy. If I thought the 
only reason the price  was increasing  was down to this, I might  think that wasnt  fair. In 
Miss Ms case  Ive looked at what engagement she had with St Andrews as well as looking 
at how the cost of the insurance  changed over time.
When St Andrews took over the underwriting of Miss Ms buildings  and contents insurance  
in 2003 the policy cost £221.96  this was around  £20 more  than the alternative policy she 
ended up taking in 2016 with another provider.  The premiums increased in price to £362.21 
in 2009 and the last premium she paid in 2015 was £293.16.
Ive seen that there was engagement between Miss M and St Andrews when the policy was 
in force.  For example, in 2009 Miss M called  to ask whether interest was charged on direct 
debit payments and it was confirmed no interest  was added.  And in 2010  and 2014 Miss M 
called to discuss the renewal price.  In 2010  the level of cover was reduced and on both 
occasions a discount was offered, bringing  the prices to between £200  and £300  Miss M 
agreed to continue with the policy on those occasions.
I think Miss M knew  she could contact St Andrews to discuss  her renewal price as when she 
did, she was offered discounts.  This was something  it did to retain her as a customer, and I 
dont think there is anything wrong with St Andrews  doing this.
Miss M thinks  because she got a policy with another insurer in 2016  for around £200, this 
showed she was overcharged. I understand why she thinks this, but I dont think  this means 
St Andrews  has done anything  wrong.
The new policy  Miss M took out was underwritten by a different business,  so it offered 
slightly different levels  of cover as well as different  terms. This means its not possible to say 
Miss M was necessarily  overcharged by St Andrews as the insurance offered  by both 
businesses would be different.
Its also highly likely  that the new insurance policy came with a new customer  discount.  This 
is a common practice  across industry  meaning policies are priced lower to attract  new 
customers. Insurers will often increase prices over subsequent years to recoup any 
discounts offered  in the early years  and to bring the policy  cost in line with the commercial 
cost of insuring a risk. So Miss Ms new insurer was likely to offer a new customer discount 
that St Andrews wouldnt have offered  to her as an existing customer.
The policy offered by St Andrews was also an unlimited policy, which meant it didnt have  a 
maximum amount it would pay out under  the buildings  insurance.  But these policies were 
still priced based on a consumers  circumstances  so, for example, someone  with a four-
bedroom home would normally pay more than someone with a two-bedroom home in the 
same area. This means I dont think Miss M was being overcharged  for a policy  she didnt 
need.
Ref: DRN82027833So just because Miss M was able to find a policy that cost less than she was paying  for her 
St Andrews  policy  doesnt mean she was being  overcharged.
But St Andrews did have a duty to communicate with Miss M in a way thats clear, fair and 
not misleading. And when she first asked in 2016  about the price  quoted  of £335.77, I think 
she was asking about the price of the policy and looking into the options available.  
St Andrews  offered a discount on her existing policy, but didnt tell her about  the alternative, 
cheaper policy it offered.  I think it should  have done  that in answering Miss Ms queries 
about the price. But the alternative policy was only available  from 2016 onwards, so I dont 
think it could have  offered  it before when Miss M engaged in 2009,  2010 or 2014. St 
Andrews has offered £200 compensation for this and I think  thats  fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think St Andrews  Insurance Plcs offer is fair. If Miss M 
accepts this decision, I direct it to pay her £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February  2020.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8202783