K820x#14The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), wont  refund a 
withdrawal made for £700 in branch that Mr R says he didnt consent to or authorise. 
What happened
On 10 October 2018 a withdrawal was made, in branch, with Mr Rs debit  card and PIN 
being used for the transaction. £700 was withdrawn shortly before 5pm. 
Mr R said he only noticed the transaction when he received his quarterly bank statement in 
late December 2018. Mr R notified  Halifax about  the disputed transaction  in early  January 
2019. 
Mr R says he didnt authorise  or consent to the transaction.  Mr R, as he still had his debit 
card in his possession, and hadnt  shared his PIN with anyone,  didnt understand how the 
transaction was made or who carried  out the transaction. 
Mr R wanted Halifax to refund the transaction that he hadnt  authorised  or prove that he had 
carried out the transaction. 
Halifax say the disputed transaction was completed in branch  at the counter with Mr Rs 
genuine card being  used  and the transaction being  authenticated by Mr Rs PIN. There  was 
no in-branch  CCTV available, as footage was only held for 30 days.
Halifax, as the genuine  card and correct PIN were used, and alongside Mr R still being in 
possession of his card, said it considered  Mr R was liable for the transaction.
Unhappy, Mr R referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators  looked  into the 
complaint and didnt uphold  it. Broadly  summarised they considered  no one other  than Mr R 
or someone  known to him with his consent and PIN disclosed, couldve authorised the 
transaction.
As Mr R disagreed, and as the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain  why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where  
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
Ref: DRN85871742PSR 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised  if the payer has given 
consent to the execution  of the payment transaction. If a payment service user (customer)  
denied having  authorised  an executed payment  the payment service provider (in this case 
Halifax) has to prove the payment  transaction was authenticated. And if it is deemed that a 
payment transaction hasnt been  consented  to, it isnt authorised. 
PSR 2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr R says he didnt consent  or authorise the transaction and is seeking a refund of the £700 
withdrawn from his account. Halifax has said the disputed transaction  was made using 
Mr Rs genuine card and was authenticated with Mr Rs PIN.
So, in this case, I need to think about  whether the evidence  I have suggests that its more  
likely than not Mr R or somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried out the transaction 
Mr R is now disputing. 
The disputed transaction  was it authenticated?
Halifax has provided evidence to show that Mr Rs genuine card was used for the disputed  
transaction. This is known by the chip that sits within  the card. The withdrawal transaction  
was authenticated by the correct PIN being entered.
So Im satisfied from Halifaxs technical evidence that Mr Rs genuine card was physically 
present when the disputed transaction was made and that the withdrawal in question  was 
authenticated by Mr Rs correct PIN being entered. 
This means  I now need to determine  whether Mr R consented to the withdrawal. In order to 
do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mr R could have made the 
withdrawal without Mr Rs consent.
Could an unknown party  have made the withdrawal?
Mr Rs debit card remained in his possession, with Mr R using the card on the morning of 
10 October 2018 prior to the disputed transaction and then again  on 12 October  2018.  On 
both occasions  Mr R used  his card for a contactless payment.
As Mr R used  his card for a contactless payment  on the morning  of 10 October 2018, Mr Rs 
PIN hadnt been compromised on the day of the disputed transaction.  By this I mean, Mr R 
hasnt used his card either through chip and PIN or at a cash machine where  there was a 
possibility that someone  could  have  identified his PIN  commonly known  as shoulder 
surfing. And had Mr Rs PIN been  identified somehow by an unknown party at some point in 
the days prior,  the unknown  party would  have also had to obtain Mr Rs card on the day of 
the disputed transaction  after Mr R had used it in the morning. 
The unknown party would then have  to use the card in branch to withdraw the money and 
then return it back to Mr R, all without him knowing.
This is an unlikely scenario. Im mindful that if the unknown party knew Mr Rs PIN and had 
managed to obtain Mr Rs card  it is more likely that they would  have used the card at a 
cash machine multiple times as opposed  to going  in branch. 
Ref: DRN85871743Also, if an unknown third party had managed  to gain access to Mr Rs card and PIN  
typically they would have tried to gain as much from the account, and as quickly  as they 
could, maximising spend before the card was reported stolen. This didnt  happen here. A 
withdrawal for £700 was made, but the account was left with an available limit, and no 
further transactions were made or declined. Typically an unknown opportunistic thief or 
fraudster would keep  processing transactions until they were declined. And in this case, as 
mentioned above,  the card was also returned to Mr Rs possession  which  an unknown 
opportunistic thief or fraudster is unlikely willing to do, as they run the risk of being  caught 
when they could simply discard the card instead.
So I cant reasonably  conclude that an unknown  party to Mr R made the withdrawal.
Could a known  party have made  the withdrawal?
Ive also considered whether a known party had access to Mr Rs card and PIN. But the 
same logic as above would apply. A known party would have had to have gained access  to 
Mr Rs card, after Mr R had used it earlier in the day and obtained or known Mr Rs PIN. The 
known party would  then have to take and use the card in branch and then return  it all without  
Mr R knowing. 
But, and importantly, Mr R has confirmed that the card remained in his possession and he 
hadnt written down or shared his PIN with anyone.
So I also cant conclude that someone known to Mr R took his card without his consent and 
used it to make the withdrawal.
Mr R is unhappy that there isnt any further  evidence, such as confirmation of his signature 
for the transaction,  or confirmation of further identification checks  carried out by the branch 
that Mr R says would show that he didnt make  the withdrawal. 
Halifax allow  up to a certain amount to be withdrawn in-branch over the counter through  chip 
and PIN. And anything  under  this amount doesnt require a signature or any further identity 
checks to be carried out. This isnt uncommon  across the banking industry, and a customer  
using a genuine card, which is authenticated by the correct PIN is enough to satisfy  the bank  
that it is a genuine transaction. I dont  think Halifax needed to do more.
Mr R is also unhappy that CCTV  footage  wasnt available. Having the footage  may well have 
cleared matters up, but it isnt uncommon  for CCTV to only be kept for a short period  with 
Halifax confirming it keeps its branch CCTV for a 30-day period. I understand Mr Rs 
frustration, but as the CCTV  footage  isnt available, I have to base my decision on the 
evidence I do have  available. And in doing  so I have to consider what I think is more  likely 
than not to have  happened.
Overall, taking everything into consideration and based on what  I think is more likely than not 
to have happened, its hard for me to see how somebody other than Mr R carried out the 
transaction Mr R is disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Halifax to 
reimburse him.
Finally, I note Halifax awarded Mr R £50 as compensation for a letter Mr R sent through 
recorded delivery that Halifax  didnt receive. This seems a fair amount and recognises the 
delay and inconvenience caused  to Mr R when he was making his complaint to Halifax.
Ref: DRN85871744my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8587174