K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life and Pensions  UK Limited has charged an annual  
management charge  (AMC) on his pension fund which is against the terms of his policy.
background
In 1988 Mr S started  a Section 226 pension policy with Norwich Union intending to use the 
proceeds to repay his mortgage. His policy is in the With Profits  fund,  and originally came  
with a 4% with profits  guarantee,  which no longer applied from 1999 when the provider 
became Aviva. 
In 2018 Mr S noticed a new heading  on his annual  statement annual management 
charges.  He queried this with Aviva as the original terms  and conditions  of his policy  which 
he still has, state an annual management  charge  (AMC)  doesnt  apply to the With  Profits  
fund. Aviva explained Mr S doesnt pay an AMC either taken by deduction of units  or taken 
into account in the unit price  on a daily basis. But he is required to pay a fund charge of 
approximately 0.875%,  which is allowed for when the annual  bonus is declared on the With-
Profits fund, and this is explained  in the terms and conditions. In its response, Aviva  also 
addressed Mr Ss query  relating to waiver of premium benefit, which  doesnt  form part of this 
decision. 
As he approached retirement Mr S was worried that charges he shouldnt be paying  are 
eroding his savings. He thinks  its unfair Aviva can apparently vary the terms of his policy 
and yet he is bound by them. So he complained  to this service.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and could see where  Mr S was coming 
from. But he felt thered been a misunderstanding  over the way the charges were explained. 
He accepted Mr S chose  his policy with the charges  in mind,  but felt it was unrealistic to 
expect to pay no charges.  Mr S provided  a copy  the original terms and conditions which say 
the AMC does not apply to the With-Profits  fund. So he feels Aviva should honour this and 
refund all the charges hes paid. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
I think this complaint has arisen as Mr S doesnt  understand and Aviva  hasnt clearly 
explained the different charges which can apply to a pension.  Mr S is correct that he doesnt 
pay an AMC for on the With Profits fund. But that doesnt mean he pays  no charges at all. 
A business is entitled to charge for its services  to cover its costs  and overheads,  and Mr S is 
aware he pays a monthly policy fee of £1.20.  
Mr S started saving into his pension  thirty  years  ago when the financial environment was 
very different from today. Assumptions  about  growth  have had to be revised significantly 
downwards, which is why Mr S no longer benefits from the 4% guarantee. And the regulator  
now expects firms to be far clearer and more transparent when communicating with their 
customers. This means that over time the information provided in annual  statements has 
Ref: DRN81318982expanded and changed, so Mr Ss statements are now longer and more detailed  than they 
used to be This additional information can cause confusion as charges which customers 
were always  paying  are shown separately  when in the past they may have simply been 
factored into a bonus calculation and so were  invisible. This is what has happened  in Mr Ss 
case, as Aviva set out in his 2018  annual statement information about  charges which  have 
always applied. 
Mr S is correct  that he doesnt  pay the AMC, so the section in his statement headed Annual  
Management Charge  which  refers to the running costs being  taken  from the policy directly 
as a reduction in units doesnt apply to his policy.  But the next section which reads  During 
the statement  period you have paid a charge of 0.88% to cover  these  costs  (meaning the 
running costs of his policy) does apply to Mr S and always has, but previously  he wasnt  
specifically made aware of it. The annual bonus is designed to smooth the profits and losses  
over time, and the costs of administering the policy are deducted before the bonus  is 
applied.
Aviva explains  the value of Mr Ss policy at his retirement date in September 2019 
represents an average annual return of 6.1% since it started in 1988. The average  annual 
return of the Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited With Profits Sub Fund  was 6.7% over the 
same period.  So over time his policy has benefited  from the fund return, less an allowance 
for expenses. I think Mr S could have been reassured if Aviva  had explained  this simply at 
the outset, rather than referring  Mr S back to the policy terms which  he felt supported his 
position. And I understand why Mr S feels this doesnt align with the promise  of No hidden  
charges  in his original terms and conditions. 
But while Mr S may not be happy  to discover  the administration of his policy  is paid for by a 
slight reduction in his annual bonuses, he doesnt  pay an AMC, so he isnt being 
overcharged. So it follows Im not going  to ask Aviva  to refund any charges to him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8131898