K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Miss G bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint because:
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Miss G. This shows that she wouldve had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could  continue  with her application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Miss G selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
 Egg didnt recommend the policy to Miss G so it didnt have to check if she needed  it or 
whether it was suitable for her. Miss G had to decide that for herself.  
Miss G has recently told us she had a life insurance  policy in place, so she didnt need 
the PPI. But I cant  be sure that the other insurance  she had wouldve paid benefits on 
the same  basis as the PPI policy. So this point doesnt change my conclusions. 
 Its possible the information Egg gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Miss G wouldve been affected  by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover. The policy was also competitively  priced  and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Miss G about that. Because Egg didnt tell Miss G, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN88547172my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8854717