K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ws credit card account when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs W disagreed  
saying, in summary, that:
Barclays says the PPI was taken out during a meeting. She would like to see proof  of 
this as she never  had a meeting.
She didnt  need the PPI because her parents wouldve  helped  her pay it if she couldnt 
work. She didnt have any other  expenses because she still lived at home.
She was young and healthy and it was very unlikely that shed have fallen seriously ill.
She wasnt aware she had PPI and didnt agree to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W says she applied for the card by post. Barclays  says its records show the card was 
taken out in branch. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider circumstances.
If Mrs W applied  for the card by post, Barclays wouldnt have  provided  a personal 
recommendation to her. It says it did give her advice and, to be fair to Mrs W, Ive 
considered the case to the higher standard of an advised sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
The application form included a separate section headed Payment Protection 
Insurance.  There were  equally clear options  to accept  or decline the PPI and the Yes 
box has been crossed.  Its possible this was completed by the member of staff, rather  
than Mrs W. But I can see Mrs W has initialled next to the cross. So, overall, I think  
Barclays made  Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it  
although I can understand why she can no longer remember  this. 
Ref: DRN84344562Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Shes  told us she 
wouldve received  less than three months  pay if she couldnt work due to sickness  or an 
accident. The PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months, so couldve  been a useful 
benefit. It also covered her if shed become unemployed.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs W chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have 
wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs W would have  made  a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On 
balance I think she would still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, including what shes  said about being  able to rely 
on her parents to help her, and the fact that she was healthy  when  she took out the policy.  
But these  points dont  change my conclusion. Support from her parents wasnt  guaranteed. 
And the insurance  was to protect against  risks that might happen over the lifetime of the 
card. Just because Mrs W didnt need  to make a claim on the policy, doesnt mean  it wasnt 
suitable for her.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard does have to pay back to Mrs W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434456