K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the adviser  fees charged on Mr Bs self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) by Pallant Independent Limited  in 2018. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 May 2020, setting out why I think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. I invited both parties to make any further submissions  by 
19 May 2020 before I finalised matters. 
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision so Ive attached  it below. Pallant 
responded saying it accepted the provisional  decision and it didnt have anything  further  to 
add. Mr B responded  with further comments.  In short,  he says Pallant did not monitor  the 
performance of his SIPP as he did not receive  a valuation review report  in 2018  and it failed  
to hold an annual  review meeting with him in 2018.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says a client  such  as myself does not monitor his investment  manager's  performance 
regularly: that's what he pays  the IFA to do (and to report back to him). I acknowledge 
Mr Bs point  here, but as Ive said in my provisional decision Pallant told us it did actively  
manage his SIPP  the lack of contact with him doesnt, of itself, suggest  that it wasnt. 
Active management doesnt automatically involve  changes to the SIPP-  particularly when  no 
such changes are required  by the customer. In Mr Bs case, having review  the evidence  of 
the November  2017 and January 2018 notes, the SIPP overall, Im satisfied that it remained 
suitable for Mr B and was continuing  to deliver  on Mr Bs objectives and needs. Under those 
circumstances, given  that Pallant was monitoring the SIPP  and carrying out work  that was 
required (for example  cash  movements),  Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to ask it to refund fees for that period. 
In terms of the annual  review, I understand Bs point   but Ive not been  persuaded to 
change my mind. As I said in my provisional  decision, it isn't for me to say what month or at 
what point in 2018 a valuation review  meeting  should've taken place. This would've 
depended on Mr Bs needs and objectives, as well as any other issues  affecting his SIPP. 
But in Mr Bs case, given  his meeting  in January  2018, I dont  consider it unreasonable  that 
Pallant said a valuation review  of his SIPP was planned for November 2018.  I appreciate 
Mr B left Pallant in November 2018 and he does not believe Pallant did intend  to hold a 
review meeting at that point. But had Mr B felt this was needed before November  2018,  
I wouldve  expected  him to get in touch  and request it. If Mr B was worried about the 
management of his SIPP and its performance etc. in 2018 then again I wouldve expected 
him to raise this with Pallant  at the time but I cant see that this was done. So Im not 
persuaded Pallant did anything wrong.     
So having  taken into account Mr Bs further comments, I have no reason to change my mind 
from my provisional decision.  For the reasons Ive given I uphold  this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN82376962my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Pallant Independent Limited should:
Refund November  2018 and December  2018  adviser fees charged on the SIPP and 
add 8% simple interest* from date of payment  of the fees to date of settlement.
Pay £200 compensation for trouble and upset
*If Pallant Independent Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 July 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Ref: DRN82376963Mr and Mrs B are unhappy  with the adviser  fees charged  on Mr Bs self-invested personal pension  by 
Pallant Independent  Limited in 2018. 
background
Mr and Mrs Bs investment  portfolio consisted of a number of investments including individual savings 
accounts (ISA),  a general investment account (GIA) and a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). For 
the purposes of this complaint Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the adviser fees Pallant  charged on 
Mr Bs SIPP in 2018. As the SIPP is solely  in Mr Bs name Ill be referring  to him only throughout  the 
rest of this decision.   
In January 2018, Mr B was notified about the departure of his then financial adviser from Pallant. 
Following this Mr B was provided  with a new financial  adviser who he met with in late January  2018.  
In July 2018  Mr B was notified that hed have  a new financial adviser taking over and the same 
happened again in October 2018. Mr B subsequently made the decision to move his investment 
affairs from Pallant around mid November  2018.
Mr B was unhappy  with the number  of different financial advisers he had in 2018. He says other than 
the meeting he had in late January 2018 with the first replacement adviser, he was not contacted  by 
any of the subsequent financial advisers,  despite  being told the adviser will be in touch. Mr B says 
Pallant has been unable to show what work it carried out on his SIPP  in 2018. As a result he would  
like the adviser fees refunded plus 8% interest and compensation for his trouble  and upset. 
Pallant says Mr B had a review meeting  in late January 2018 and the next steps from that meeting 
were implemented.  Pallant acknowledges Mr B did have  a few different advisers in 2018,  but it says 
whilst the advisers didnt  pro-actively get in touch with him, theres  no evidence  of Mr B doing  so 
either. It says this suggests he didnt require  any financial advice prior to his annual review meeting  
which was due to take place in around November  2018 but by that point he had left Pallant. It says it 
remained available to Mr B throughout the year should he have had any questions  or concerns. 
Mr B was unhappy  with Pallants response, so he brought his complaint to us. Pallant told us it 
actively managed  Mr Bs SIPP throughout 2018 such as monitoring the cash  balance to ensure  
enough cash  was available to cover the SIPP providers  fees and its adviser fees.  It did however offer 
to pay £200 to Mr B for any trouble and upset caused as a result of different  financial advisers being  
appointed.   
One of our investigators looked into this but she didnt uphold the complaint. She thought  whilst the 
level of contact Mr B had with Pallants  financial  advisers  was less in 2018 in comparison to what  he 
may have been used  to from his previous adviser, Pallant still acted in line with the agreement. 
Mr B disagreed. He raised several  points such as the January 2018 meeting was not a review 
meeting and instead an introduction meeting. The November 2017 meeting was a mid-year review 
and not an annual review meeting so the annual meeting shouldve taken  place around May 2018 but 
this did not take place. Overall Mr B says Pallant charged fees every month in 2018 but did nothing 
with his SIPP  as theres no evidence of it monitoring, reviewing  or reporting  to him on the 
performance of his SIPP.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me.
Ref: DRN82376964my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to uphold this complaint in part.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Bs strength  of feeling about this matter. Its clearly caused him upset, and hes taken  a 
great deal of time and effort to respond.
Mr B has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. Im aware that hes raised a number  of issues, however, I hope he wont take the fact my 
findings focus  on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy.
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised under a separate subject 
heading, or determine points of law. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B and 
Pallant, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of 
the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant  law, regulation and best industry 
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than 
not to have  happened.
Mr B would like adviser fees in relation to his SIPP to be refunded for the year 2018 as he says 
Pallant did no work on his SIPP for that period. Its clear  Mr B draws  this conclusion by comparing his 
level of contact with Pallant financial advisers in 2018 and his financial adviser before that. Mr B says 
his previous adviser met with him quarterly, and there was usually a mid-year review and an annual  
review which  Pallant fell short in continuing  to do in 2018.  
Pallant has provided us with the service agreement and fee schedule which shows that Mr B opted  for 
the on-going  management  and supervision (retainer  service).  It sets out amongst other things, this 
service level provides a minimum of one meeting each year at the clients home  or office, a minimum 
of one valuation will be prepared each year etc.
After the departure  of Mr Bs previous financial adviser,  Mr B did meet  with his first replacement  
adviser in late January 2018.  Ive had a look at the meeting notes  and it says, main concern from 
here is sustainability of income general  investment portfolio, ISAs  and SIPP  investments will of 
course be the main  providers of income for now because  of the advantageous inheritance tax 
treatment of the pensions it made more sense from here to draw value from ISAs, the general 
portfolio and their considerable cash savings. So Im satisfied the SIPP was discussed  albeit no 
further action was required with it at that time. I cant see that it was agreed when an annual review 
meeting would take place, rather it set out that it will continue to review  this in time and we will aim to 
meet them to monitor performance and withdrawals in time to come.
Often as is the case here, on-going management of an investment  takes place  in the background 
without the need for regular contact with a customer. Pallant has told us it actively managed Mr Bs 
SIPP by monitoring the cash balance to ensure  enough cash  was available to cover the SIPP 
providers fees and its adviser fees. Its clear that it considered the SIPP was continuing to deliver on 
Mr Bs objectives and needs, and therefore no changes were required. The retainer  service also gave 
Mr B access to a financial  adviser as and when  he needed it. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs level of contact by Pallant financial advisers after the departure of his previous 
adviser was less in 2018, but I must  consider  whether this made  a difference  to the management  of 
his SIPP against his objectives and needs. To do this, Ive had a look at both November 2017 and 
January 2018 meeting  notes. They  suggest that the SIPP was delivering on Mr Bs needs at the time. 
I havent been  provided with any evidence which  suggests the SIPP shouldve been managed 
differently in 2018, nor that Mr B himself  asked or requested for changes  to be made. So Im not 
currently persuaded Mr B has lost out as a result of the service  he received.  
Ref: DRN82376965I understand Mr B is unhappy that no valuation review took place in 2018. Pallant  says that wouldve 
taken place in November 2018 but Mr B had opted to end his service from it by that point.  It isn't for 
me to say what month or at what point in 2018 a valuation review should've  taken place. This 
would've depended on Mr Bs needs  and objectives, as well as any other issues affecting his SIPP. 
However, I'm not persuaded the fact that the November  2017 meeting was called  a 'midyear review 
automatically meant he was entitled to another review six months later. And given the fact that Mr B 
didn't chase for a review in May 2018 means it's likely he didn't expect another  one either. 
In Mr Bs case, given his meeting in January 2018,  I dont  consider it unreasonable that a valuation 
review of his SIPP was planned for November  2018. However, had Mr B felt this was needed  before 
November 2018, I wouldve expected him to get in touch  and request it. If Mr B was worried  about the 
management of his SIPP and its performance etc. in 2018  then again  I wouldve expected him to raise 
this with Pallant  at the time but I cant see that this was done.    
So overall taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly say Pallant failed to keep to the 
agreement it had with Mr B. 
Both Mr B and Pallant say his financial affairs were moved from Pallant in November 2018.  However 
looking at the fees charged, I note Pallant  collected adviser fees in November 2018 and 
December 2018. Given that Mr B had moved by that point, Pallant  should  refund these  charges and 
add 8% simple interest.  Its also clear the number  of changes in financial advisers in 2018 caused Mr 
B some trouble  and upset. Pallant had offered to pay £200 for this which I think is fair compensation  
in recognition  of the upset caused.  
I can see Mr B has raised a number of other issues he experienced with Pallant, which this service  
has considered under  a separate  complaint  reference. Whilst I can understand why Mr B considers 
these matters demonstrate he received a poor service all round, I must decide  on the facts  relating to 
this specific complaint, and the impact on him as a result.    
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. 
Pallant should:
Refund November  2018 and December  2018 adviser  fees charged on the SIPP and add 8% 
simple interest* from date of payment to date of settlement.
Pay £200  compensation  for trouble  and upset
*If Pallant  Independent Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr B a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can claim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8237696