K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that a used car she acquired  via a hire purchase with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera)  wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
background 
In May 2017  Miss R entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  with Alphera. The car 
was just under two years old and had a mileage of about 11,500.  
The day after Miss R collected  the car it cut out while she was driving on a dual carriageway. 
Miss R managed to return it to the dealership where  it was inspected. It was found that the 
EGR valve required replacement. This repair was carried out at no cost to Miss R and the 
car was returned to her. 
In June 2018 Miss R took the car back to the dealership as she was having  problems with 
the cars  clutch.  Repairs were  carried  out to the clutch and flywheel. There  were further 
repairs carried out to the rubber engine  mounts in September 2018 and to the manifold in 
October 2018. 
Miss R says the car has continued  to have  problems with the clutch  and that she has lost 
confidence in the car. Miss R complained to Alphera about the quality of the car. 
Alphera didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint. It said the car had been repaired under the 
warranty and that the necessary repairs werent unreasonable  taking into account the age, 
mileage and usage of the car. It offered to suppress  one months  payment under  the 
agreement as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Miss R was unhappy at Alpheras  decision and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. He said that Under  the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 a car thats supplied must  be of satisfactory quality and if it isnt then the 
retailer has an opportunity  to repair it. The EGR  valve fault that had arisen  within a very short 
time of the car being collected by Miss R had been  repaired and that fault hadnt reoccurred. 
Our adjudicator said he appreciated that other faults had arisen later but to uphold the 
complaint he would need to see evidence that confirmed the issues  relating to the clutch  
were either present or developing at the point  of sale. 
Miss R disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. She said that the fault with the cars EGR 
had been very serious and could have  had potentially very serious consequences.  She says 
the car cant  have been properly checked before she collected  it and that it was in an unsafe  
condition.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be of satisfactory quality  at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Ref: DRN82953762Durability is also part of satisfactory quality as although  no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt  reasonably  expect issues to arise 
with the car for a period  of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale then in the first 30 days the 
consumer has the right to reject the goods. After that period the retailer  would  have an 
opportunity to repair and if that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject 
the car. 
I think its clear  the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  when Miss R acquired it as the EGR 
valve had required replacing.  I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect a car of that age 
and mileage to require a repair immediately. Ive seen this repair was carried  out at no cost 
to Miss R and that she was provided with a courtesy  car.
I havent seen  any evidence that Miss R requested to reject the car at that point and she 
accepted the car back and went on to use it. Ive also seen that the repair to the EGR valve 
was successful as the faults with the car that arose  later werent connected to this repair.
I appreciate that Miss R may not have been aware she could have rejected the car at that 
point but I think  it would be unfair and unreasonable to say she hadnt accepted that first 
repair. She took the car back  and drove it for around  9,000  miles before the repairs were 
carried out on the clutch and flywheel. This means  Miss R doesnt now have a legal  right to 
reject the car for that first fault.
Miss R says that due to the seriousness of the fault which  caused  the car to cut out while 
being driven at speed the car wasnt safe at the point of sale. I appreciate  that it must have 
been a frightening incident for Miss R but Ive seen that she continued to use the car after it 
had been successfully repaired.  Given these  circumstances I dont  think I can fairly  say that 
due to the potentially serious consequences  of the fault with the EGR  valve that she can 
now reject  the car.
Ive seen that further issues arose  with the car around 13 months after the first repair.  
These were  with the clutch  and flywheel. Due to the passage of time I would need to see 
evidence that these faults were either  present or developing at the point of sale to now 
justify rejection. Taking into account the time and mileage  that had passed since the 
agreements inception I couldnt reasonably say that they must have been present without 
some proof.
Im aware that further repairs were carried out to the rubber engine  mounts  and that Miss R 
says there  are still issues with the clutch but again  Ive not seen any evidence about  
whether these issues have arisen through wear and tear or whether  there  was an inherent 
problem with the car.
So looking  at the evidence Im satisfied that Alphera has acted fairly towards Miss R. 
Although the car wasnt of satisfactory condition at the point  of sale this was successfully 
repaired and Miss R was able to fully use the car. I dont have enough evidence that the 
later faults  with the car were present  or developing at the point of sale and I cant  
reasonably say that Miss R can now reject the car.
Ive seen that Alphera offered to suppress  one months payment under  the agreement  as a 
gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience  and distress caused by the car needing the 
Ref: DRN82953763repairs. I think this was fair and reasonable as compensation in these  circumstances and 
Im not going  to ask it to do more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding the above case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2020. 
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8295376