K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her mobile phone insurance. My 
references to Allianz include  its agents.
background
Mrs C complains that when she upgraded her phone in February  2018  Allianz  sold her 
mobile phone insurance  without  telling her the excess  for a claim would be £100. She also 
says Allianz didnt send her any policy documents.
In summer  2018, Mrs C made a claim for her damaged phone and was shocked  to find out 
about the excess. She wont pay the excess. She wants the phone provider to release her 
from her phone contract and wants her policy premiums refunded. 
Allianz said it had sent Mrs C the welcome pack containing the policy document  which  
detailed the excess. It didnt  accept  the policy had been mis-sold.
Our investigator explained we couldn't look at the issues raised Mrs C about the phone 
contract and Mrs C should contact her phone provider about those issues.  She didnt think 
the policy had been mis-sold as there was evidence Allianz had sent the policy  document to 
Mrs C which  had information  about  the excess.
Mrs C doesn't agree  and wants an ombudsmans decision. She wants evidence Allianz had 
sent the policy to her. She says she hadnt signed for the document  so there  was no proof 
she received it.
Before I made a decision I asked Allianz  to send us evidence  it had sent the policy  document  
to Mrs C.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C was sold the insurance policy in the phone shop by a business which wasnt  Allianz. 
However the policy shows that business  acted on Allianz's behalf in relation  to the sale of 
the insurance. So Im satisfied I can consider  the mis-sale complaint against Allianz.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen no notes  from Allianz about  what happened at the sale of the policy.  Allianz  says 
the salesperson  would have told Mrs C about  the excess but she says they didnt. Ive no 
evidence to support  what either party says happened at the actual sale.
However, Ive seen evidence that shows Allianz  did sent a welcome pack  containing the 
policy document to Mrs C on 12 February  2018, just after she bought the policy.  The 
information was sent to the same address we have  for Mrs C. 
There may have been problems  with the post and Mrs C may not have got the welcome 
pack and policy. But Allianz isnt responsible for that and it didnt need to send the document  
by recorded delivery  so she had to sign to say the document was received. Allianz has done 
Ref: DRN81094852enough to give the information  about the excess to Mrs C by sending the policy  document to 
her correct address,  which Im satisfied it did.
The onus isnt on Mrs C to ask for her policy document but as she knew she hadnt received 
the policy she could  have asked Allianz to send her the document.
The policy says an excess is payable for each successful claim and gives a website  link for 
the applicable excess depending on the phone model. £100 excess  was the correct amount 
for Mrs Cs phone.
Overall, I dont  think Allianz mis-sold the policy. It doesnt need to refund the insurance 
premiums to Miss C. If she wishes to pursue her claim it can charge her £100 excess.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8109485