K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Everyday Lending  Limited (EDL) didnt treat him fairly when it 
continued to charge interest on his loan after he entered  into a Debt  Management  Plan 
(DMP). Mr L says that EDL acted unreasonably and he thinks the interest  was too high and 
unaffordable for him. 
background
Mr L was given a loan of £3,000 by EDL in December  2015.   This was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments  of around £224.  The total amount payable, including  interest, was just 
over £8, 086. 
Mr L found he had difficulties repaying the loan and entered into a Debt Management Plan 
(DMP). EDL says Mr Ls loan was rescheduled in September  2016  with a reduced  rate of 
interest over a longer term. The loan was eventually  settled  in May 2019.
When Mr L originally complained to EDL, he complained about the amount and rate of 
interest charged under the DMP. And subsequent to the adjudicators  view,  Mr L has 
reiterated that this is his main issue. But during the course of the investigation, Mr L also 
complained to this Service that his loan had been unaffordable. EDL provided information 
about the checks it carried out when  it agreed to provide Mr L with the loan. So one of our 
adjudicators considered Mr Ls complaint  as a whole.
Having looked  into the complaint, the adjudicator  didnt think  EDL acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Mr L  either  when it provided him with the loan or when it 
rescheduled his repayments under the DMP. Mr L didnt agree with the adjudicators  
assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about  the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ls complaint.
There are some overarching questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending  
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way  in particular when Mr L 
found difficulties  repaying his loan and entered into the DMP?
EDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr L irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that he could 
Ref: DRN83266512repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a borrower  
focussed assessment  - sometimes  referred  to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as the loan amount, 
the repayment amounts and Mr Ls income  and expenditure. But there was no set list of 
checks EDL had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
EDL carried  out some  checks before it lent to Mr L. This included asking for details of his 
income and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. The lender also checked  Mr 
Ls salary from a payslip and it asked to see bank statements.  
From what  Ive seen, I think the checks that EDL carried out before lending to Mr L were  
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
Ive seen a summary  of the information gathered  by EDL at the time, including  Mr Ls credit  
report and the bank statement he provided to EDL at the time.  Mr L had four open loans and 
a credit card balance near to its limit. But there was very little adverse  information on his 
credit report  and he appeared to have maintained his creditor  repayments well. From what 
Ive seen, it appears that Mr L told EDL he intended  to consolidate  at least some  of his 
outstanding debt with his EDL loan. Mr Ls bank statements showed he was overdrawn but 
he was generally  fairly  near to or within his overdraft limit. Mr L had been borrowing from 
other short-term lenders  shortly before he took his loan. Ive thought carefully about this, but 
I dont think there is sufficient evidence that his borrowing from other  lenders had reached 
such a point that it ought reasonably to have led EDL to decline his loan application. And I 
have not seen any other signs of significant financial distress, such  as regular gambling  or 
frequently returned requests for payment, both of which might have signalled severe 
financial difficulties. 
On balance,  I dont  think that anything which should have caused EDL any additional 
concerns about  Mr Ls financial  position  when he applied for the loan. Or that should have 
led the lender  to reasonably conclude  that his loan application  should be declined.
Mr L complains  that EDL acted unreasonably when he had difficulties repaying his loan and 
entered a DMP.  He says the reduced  rate of interest charged by EDL was still impossible to 
repay. Mr L says his other creditors froze their interest rates and he feels that he was unfairly 
charged too much interest by EDL.
EDL says that it wasnt under any obligation  to freeze interest on Mr Ls loan.  EDL says it 
reduced the interest rate payable and extended  the loan term to 78 months,  allowing  Mr L 
longer to pay but without charging him more than he had originally agreed to repay. EDL 
Ref: DRN83266513also says that it would also be prepared to reduce payments  further, if a customer provided 
appropriate evidence  about their financial circumstances.
I think EDL was entitled to continue  charging  interest on the loan whilst Mr L was on a 
repayment plan.  I am sorry  that Mr L found  himself  in financial difficulties, but it seems to me 
that EDL did respond  positively to Mr L in agreeing to reschedule his loan over a longer term 
and with a significantly  reduced rate of interest.  Overall, I cant say that EDL acted 
unreasonably or unfairly towards  Mr L, or that it failed  to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in this regard.
 
I know Mr L will be disappointed by my decision,  and that he feels strongly about his 
complaint. But I would like to reassure him I have carefully considered  everything  that both 
he and EDL have told us and all the evidence  that has been provided. Having done  so, I am 
not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 February  2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8326651