K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about Nationwide Building  Societys  response  to a fraudster being able to 
compromise the security  of his account. The fraudster wasnt able to access any of Mr Ps 
monies but Mr P is unhappy about  actions  Nationwide took,  how it dealt with Mr P and the 
time period over which  Mr P wasnt able to access his account.
background
In short,  at the beginning of June,  someone  contacted Nationwide  by phone and attempted 
to access Mr Ps account. A new debit card and personal identification number was ordered 
by someone other than Mr P. As it wasnt known what became of that card (or indeed a 
replacement for that card), Mr P was without a debit card for a period and Nationwide  
suspended online access to the account.
Mr P was unhappy with how this was all dealt  with - including  how difficult  it was for him to 
make transactions, specifically, access cash even when attending branch. But he was also 
concerned that Nationwide didnt  contact the police  about the attempted fraud,  and that it 
didnt allow him to view CCTV footage  it had of the fraudster  when theyd  attempted to make  
a cash withdrawal.
Nationwide accepted that it hadnt dealt with everything as it should have and offered Mr P 
compensation of £300. 
Ive relied on the above summary of the complaint, compiled by the investigator as the basis 
of his view of Mr Ps complaint, as its key to the basis on which Mr P didnt accept the 
investigators view and has asked  for a review of his complaint. Ive therefore recorded it 
here, as the investigator did, accepting it is a simplistic,  albeit generally correct,  record  of the 
complaints background.  I accept that Mr P has various, more  detailed concerns.   
The investigator acknowledged that Nationwides actions had negatively impacted  on Mr P. 
But he was mindful  that it had a responsibility  to safe guard  Mr Ps account  and the account 
terms and conditions say it could restrict online access if it had security concerns. While  this 
may not have been convenient, the investigator concluded Nationwide  was acting with best 
intentions, to protect an account where its security had been  compromised. 
He also said that it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to ask Mr P to provide ID in branch 
in order to withdraw cash, given the security  concerns that existed about  his account.
That said,  many  aspects  of how Nationwide dealt with things, should have been carried out 
better  as acknowledged  by Nationwide  and the investigator said it was correct that it 
ought to have offered compensation to Mr P. But it had and he thought  that the £300 it had 
offered was fair.
Mr P was unhappy with the investigators  view of the complaint and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  things, including matters that he didnt think had been  addressed.  
He said he was treated  poorly in branch, as if there hadnt been  effective  communication  
with it about why he had to attend; the investigator hadnt addressed how Nationwide  
advised Mr P on dealing with the fraud  or, seemingly, listened to calls between him and the 
bank; he was three months without a debit card and he suffered distress,  inconvenience  
including having  to visit a branch - and cost in finally obtaining his replacement card.    
Ref: DRN89481862He says that the bank ought  to have reported the compromise of his account to the police; 
that the bank shouldnt  have allowed a further compromise of the account and sent a second 
card to the fraudster; and that £300 compensation is too low for the impact of all this on him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I think it might  be useful for me to set out precisely the basis  on which Im making this 
determination of Mr Ps complaint. Ultimately, any money award  that Im entitled to make  has 
to take into account  the financial loss of the complainant, any pain and suffering suffered, or 
distress and inconvenience. 
Therefore, where  its essentially not in dispute that the business has made errors, the 
outcome of the complaint   any award I may make  is centred around what  impact those 
errors have  had on the complainant rather than be dictated by the type or severity of the 
business errors. Crucially, any award made is not punitively based  so to a degree how the 
business has come to make an error is not relevant  to the determination of a complaint.  
Here, its accepted that Nationwides security systems were compromised. It isnt known as 
to exactly how and often  it can never  be known. But I also accept that even if that was 
established, and I understand  how this would be of interest to us individually  in respect  of 
our own accounts, theres good reason why a business wouldnt want to place such 
information in the public  domain.   
I think its completely understandable that when an account has been  compromised, there  
needs to be a new card issued  and also that access to an account might need  to be 
restricted. It was unfortunate in this case that a second card got intercepted  and that Mr P 
then had to attend a branch to pick up a further replacement.  And it is even more  unfortunate  
that there  was misunderstanding about  the ID requirements for collection of the card.  
Of course,  its correct that Nationwide  should  compensate Mr P for that process  not going as 
smoothly as it might; and also for any longer  period than was necessary when being without 
access to banking facilities. 
I dont agree though, Im afraid, that Nationwide  was obligated  to inform the police of the 
compromise of Mr Ps account. Im not aware  of any legal or regulatory  obligation  on the 
bank to do that and I dont  think  I can depart from the lack of obligation on Nationwide  to say 
that its still fair and reasonable for it to do so. I must  say, also,  Mr P was equally able to 
report the compromise of the account  as Nationwide was.
Similarly, I also conclude that the advice that Nationwide  gave to Mr P about  the CCTV 
footage wasnt  incorrect. It isnt disputed that Mr P was in effect  asking for Nationwide  to 
release to him the facial image  of someone that wasnt him and who,  indeed, was someone 
attempting to defraud him. I think it was appropriate for Nationwide  to advise Mr P of the 
proper channels to go through,  if he wanted  to pursue his request for sight  of the footage.  
Im mindful that my decision doesnt  set out the full detail of what happened,  a full forensic  
analysis of the events and therefore detailed where things might have been  handled  better 
over the period that covered the account being compromised and until it was fully active for 
Mr P again.  
Ref: DRN89481863But I have read and considered carefully  all that has been submitted by both parties in the 
bringing of this complaint. And Ive had regard for everything in thinking about how the 
complaint should  be determined.  I simply  dont need  to set out the detail  here. 
As Ive said,  its not disputed that Mr P suffered  some loss, inconvenience  and distress as a 
result of Nationwide not handling matters as well as it might have. But being a victim of fraud 
is upsetting, disconcerting  and the cause of some inevitable inconvenience, much  of which  is 
mostly caused by the fraudster. 
So, taking that into account, the impact on Mr P that hes described and how Nationwide  
dealt with things,  and what could have been  done better by Nationwide, Im of the view that 
the compensation paid to Mr P already, £300, is sufficient. I therefore dont make any further 
award of compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8948186