K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Financial Administration  Services Limited (Fidelity) removed  the option 
to make partial transfers from his ISA.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Bs complaint in which I explained why I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In brief,  I concluded  that Fidelity had been entitled to make the change to the way in which  
the ISA operated. And that, in the event that Mr B hadnt been informed of the change  when  
it took place in 2012, it was unlikely he wouldve taken any different  action  with the ISA at 
that point if he had been informed. In short, while I appreciated the change  may have been 
frustrating for him, I didnt  think hed been disadvantaged  by it. 
Fidelity accepted my decision. Mr B responded to make  some additional points. He said, in 
brief:
He was unhappy Id reiterated the investigators view and referred me back to his 
initial submission and Fidelitys terms.
He felt Fidelity had reneged on its contract with him by ceasing the partial  transfer 
facility.
If the Wealthbuilder fund had been  is only investment in the ISA, would he have been 
able to transfer it?
He also felt Id failed to answer  many of his questions, such as why there  wasnt  an 
industry standard for comparing  the risk level of funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Bs further 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld,  for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
As noted,  I do appreciate Mr Bs frustration  with the matter. Fidelity has confirmed  that if he 
had held only the Wealthbuilder investment he wouldve been  able to transfer to another ISA 
provider as this wouldnt have been a partial transfer. It wouldve been a full transfer.  
And, as I noted in my provisional  decision, Mr B still couldve made a full transfer of his 
whole ISA account either in 2019, or earlier in 2012 if hed wanted to. And at any time, he 
couldve taken cash withdrawals to provide  income.  So, while I understand that removal of 
the partial transfer facility was annoying,  Mr B still had several options available  to him. 
Regarding the question  of why there isnt an industry standard for comparing risk levels 
(concern over a potential increase in risk being  the reason  Mr B was prompted to disinvest 
from the Wealthbuilder), that sort of question is really something for the financial regulator,  
the Financial Conduct Authority, to consider. Im limited to looking at the specific  
circumstances and concerns of Mr Bs complaint. And, as noted, I dont think Fidelity acted 
incorrectly or unreasonably in that respect.  
Ref: DRN87764882my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87764883COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr B complains that Financial Administration  Services Limited (Fidelity)  removed the option to make 
partial transfers from his ISA.
background
Mr B started the ISA in 2002. In early 2019 Fidelity  informed  him that one of the funds  he was 
invested in  the Wealthbuilder fund  was being  merged into another fund.  Mr B felt this would  lead 
to the holding having a higher risk rating that he was comfortable with. 
He called Fidelity to discuss the matter and gave the instruction to sell the holding   worth just under 
£50,000. It was his intention to transfer the cash  generated from the sale to a new cash  ISA with a 
different provider. But when he called  Fidelity a few days later to arrange  this, he discovered that this 
would constitute a partial transfer and Fidelity no longer  offered that facility.  It would only allow a full 
transfer of the ISA to another provider. 
Mr B complained to Fidelity.  It explained that it had stopped allowing partial transfers in 2012 and felt 
its terms entitled it to make the change. Fidelity did, however, acknowledge that the information Mr B 
had been given on the initial phone call when  he sold the holding had been a little misleading and 
offered him £50 by way of an apology. 
Mr B referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator also concluded that Fidelity had been 
entitled to make the change to its terms to remove the partial transfer facility. But he felt it was a 
fundamental change that shouldve been clearly communicated to Mr B. He said if that had happened, 
he needed to consider  whether Mr B wouldve  done anything differently. But the investigator didnt  
think this was likely, as there was nothing to suggest that Mr B had been seeking to make a partial 
transfer until the issue  with the fund merger  in 2019. 
In respect of the £50 offered by Fidelity to acknowledge  the misleading information given in the initial 
phone call, the investigator thought  this was reasonable, given he didnt think  Fidelity  had otherwise 
acted incorrectly. So, he didnt recommend that Fidelity needed to do anything else. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He said he felt that the investigators  conclusion  that he 
wouldnt have acted differently if hed been aware of the change  earlier was wrong. He said,  in brief, 
that it had been part of his financial planning when  the ISA was started in 2002 that he would  be able 
to make ad hoc withdrawals or take an income, drawing down funds  to support his retirement. He said 
that the removal of the partial transfer  facility would have prevented him doing this. So, if hed been 
aware of the change in 2012, he wouldve  transferred  his account away from Fidelity.
The investigator wasnt  persuaded  to change his opinion,  so the matters  been referred to me to 
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
It appears to be generally accepted that Fidelity was entitled to make changes to the terms for its ISA 
and that this could include the removal  of the partial  transfer facility. Theres  no requirement that a 
business must allow partial ISA transfers and I agree that it was a reasonable commercial decision for 
Fidelity to take, providing it was properly  communicated.
Its not clear what, if anything,  was communicated to account  holders in 2012.  But even  If I assume 
that Mr B wasnt told of the change  in 2012, on balance, I still dont think that a consideration of the 
Ref: DRN87764884wider circumstances suggests that he wouldve done anything  differently if the change  had been 
clearly communicated.
I note Mr B feels strongly that he wouldve  been prompted to act and transfer his ISA if hed known 
that partial transfers were  no longer  possible. And this is on the basis that hed planned from the 
outset, in 2002, to eventually take cash from the ISA to generate income,  drawing down funds to 
support his retirement. 
But doing so wouldnt have involved making  partial transfers to another  ISA. It wouldve  involved 
making cash withdrawals  from the ISA. And Fidelity has continued to allow such withdrawals   as it 
did when Mr B withdrew most of the cash generated by the Wealthbuilder  sale in January  2019,  to 
place in a new cash ISA with a new provider. 
Its not unusual for the terms of a service to change over time, so it gradually becomes  less suitable  
for a customers needs.  Even if it was the case that in 2012 Mr B would have transferred his entire 
ISA to a new provider  that allowed partial  transfers, this was something  he could equally have done  in 
2019 when he did find out that the facility  was no longer available with Fidelity. So, I while I can 
appreciate his frustration  on discovering the change, I dont think that hes been financially 
disadvantaged by it.     
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further comments I receive, Im currently of the view that Mr 
Bs complaint  should not be upheld.
Ref: DRN8776488