K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained about the advice and service provided by Chase de Vere  Independent 
Financial Advisers limited.  He contacted Chase de Vere as he was required to take advice 
as he wished to transfer safeguarded  pension benefits. He wanted  to transfer to his 
employers group personal pension (GPP), but this wasnt possible.  He says the adviser did 
not carry out due diligence on the GPP to see if it would accept the transfer and did not 
implement the transfer.
background
Mr S wanted  to transfer benefits from his final salary  pension scheme (the scheme) to his 
employers GPP. To do so he needed  independent  financial  advice. For this reason, he 
contacted Chase de Vere.
The Client Services Agreement Mr S signed on 19 December 2017 stated a fee of £3,230  for 
advice and implementation. 
On 15 January 2018 Mr S sent an email  to the adviser saying that he had not yet received 
the CETV  from the scheme. He had received confirmation from the GPP provider it could be 
transferred to the GPP.
Chase de Vere gave  advice not to transfer  Mr Ss benefits from the scheme. However, they 
agreed that the transfer was to be arranged with Mr S being  treated as an insistent client. 
The GPP  provider then explained they would not accept the transfer as the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP)  within the scheme had not been  equalised.  The transfer was not 
completed. 
Mr S complained to Chase de Vere. They did not uphold the complaint. They said the fee 
was for a transfer  analysis, which had been correctly provided.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She thought the agreement was for 
Chase de Vere to provide advice  and implement the transfer. As the transfer could not be 
implemented, she thought it reasonable for 50% of the fee to be refunded. 
Chase de Vere did not agree. They  said:
Mr S approached Chase de Vere about transferring his benefits in the scheme.
He confirmed that he wanted to transfer to his current employers GPP. He also 
provided documentary  evidence  that the GPP provider confirmed that they would 
accept the transfer.
There were  no guarantees  or assurances  provided to Mr S that any transfer would 
take place.
The purpose of Stage 1 was to complete the transfer analysis and provide Mr S with 
a Transfer Report.  This was done  and Stage 1 was completed.
Only by completing the Stage  1 analysis, did it transpire that (A) the scheme  had un-
equalised GMP and (B) because of this, the provider would not accept such a 
transfer. To suggest that this should  have been  determined at the start of the process 
is totally unrealistic.
To suggest a 50% refund of the Stage 1 fee is to suggest that 50% of the work was 
completed which simple is not the case.  100% of Stage 1 was completed.
Ref: DRN88451042Another adjudicator  reviewed the file. She wrote to Chase de Vere and Mr S with a different 
proposal about how the complaint should be resolved. As the client  agreement  was for 
advice and implementation the part of the fee for implementation should be refunded. Within 
the correspondence the adviser indicated he would charge  £1,250 for implementation. She 
thought this was a reasonable  proportion of the fee to be refunded.  Simple  interest should be 
added to that amount at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date the fee was paid until the 
date it is refunded. In addition, Mr S has been caused some distress  and inconvenience as a 
result of the transfer  not being implemented. Chase de Vere  should therefore pay £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Chase de Vere did not agree with the proposal  for the reasons already given. The fee of 
£1,250 was after the GPP  provider would not accept the transfer to look at a new provider 
and provide a new analysis.
Mr S accepted the proposal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S signed  a client agreement. He ticked a box for advice and implementation of the 
transfer of his benefits in the scheme.  A fee of £3,240  was clearly set out on the form.  Chase 
de Vere says the fee was for analysis. I do not agree. I am satisfied the agreement  shows  
the fee was for advice and implementation.
Chase de Vere provided advice to Mr S. This was not to transfer the pension  benefits. 
However, Mr S made it clear he wanted  to transfer.  Chase de Vere agreed  to arrange for the 
transfer to be made.
It was not until the GPP  provider received the transfer details it was established that the 
transfer could  not be accepted. I think Chase de Vere should have identified  the benefits 
could not be transferred because of issues with the GMP. But I accept this would not have 
been discovered until the advice process  had begun. I am satisfied Chase de Vere is entitled 
to part of the fee for the advice provided.
The transfer was not completed. In my view, Chase de Vere did not carry out the service 
they agreed to provide. The fee was for advice and implementation. Part of the fee should be 
refunded.
I agree  with the proposal that £1,250  should be refunded. This was quoted  by the adviser as 
a fee for implementation of the transfer. In my view, a greater part of the fee should be for 
the advice. Mr S has been caused  some distress  and inconvenience by the failure to transfer  
his pension benefits. I think he should  also be paid £100  for that distress  and inconvenience 
caused by Chase de Vere.
Ref: DRN88451043my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Chase de Vere Independent  Financial Advisers limited  must:
repay £1,250  of the fee Mr S paid; 
add simple interest to that amount at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date Mr S 
paid the fee until the date it is refunded;
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Chase de Vere deducts income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  has been  taken off. Chase de Vere  should give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8845104