K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about the information and service  provided by Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (the 
Post Office) when his bond  matured. 
Background
Mr B had an existing bond with the Post Office which was due to mature  on 
7 November 2018. Before the maturity date Mr B visited  his local branch of the Post Office  
and completed the reinvestment instructions, nominating a new bond he wanted  to take. In 
addition, Mr B forwarded a cheque to the Post Office for an additional £5,000  which it 
received on 5 November 2018.  
On 6 November  2018 the Post Office opened  an Easy  Saver  account on Mr Bs behalf  and 
sent him a letter to say his existing bond had matured. On 7 November 2018 the matured  
funds were paid into the Easy Saver account.  When the cheque funds cleared they were 
added to the Easy Saver account taking  the total balance  to £81,477. A new bond  was 
opened for Mr B on 8 November 2018 in line with his instructions.  
Mr B later raised  a complaint with the Post Office and said he hadnt wanted  to open an 
Easy Saver  account  and wanted his matured  funds to go straight into the new bond. The 
Post Office  said that its 6 November 2018  maturity letter was sent a day early. But it said the 
correct process had been followed  when  it opened the Easy  Saver  account to pay the 
matured funds into. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that the business  had followed the right 
process. Mr B didnt accept the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B complains that the Post Office failed to follow the right process when  it opened an Easy  
Saver account on his behalf to pay the matured funds into. The Post Office has said on 
various occasions that it opens an Easy Saver account for customers in order  to pay 
matured bond  funds into. Its also an option that customers  wishing to transfer  their savings 
away can use. In Mr Bs case,  the Easy Saver account was used to hold the matured bond 
funds whilst his cheque  was clearing.  
I can see that Mr B is upset that the Post Office opened an Easy Saver account on his 
behalf. But the Post Office says thats  its standard approach. And, in this case, Mr Bs new 
bond wasnt ready to be opened when his existing bond matured.  Thats because the bond 
matured on 7 November  2018 and his £5,000  cheque didnt clear until 8 November 2018.  
The Post Office used  the Easy Saver account  to collect  the full funds Mr B wanted to invest 
and then opened the new bond for him on 8 November 2018 for £81,477.  
I cant see Mr B has been inconvenienced  by the way the Post Office has processed his 
bond maturity.  Or that its made an error in the way his existing bond  was closed, his Easy 
Saver account was opened or the new bond  was set up. The Post Office  is free to decide  
Ref: DRN84928202how it processes matured and new bonds. The process appears  to have been correctly  
followed. And theres no financial loss here.  Mr Bs instructions to open a new bond with 
£81,477 were followed  as soon as the Post Office had cleared funds on 8 November 2018. 
The Post Office has confirmed that it incorrectly sent Mr B its maturity letter a day early,  on 
6 November 2018. I agree the letter should have been sent on 7 November 2018. But it isnt 
my role to fine or punish a business for making an error. We will award compensation where 
a business error has caused  a financial loss as well as for the impact of that mistake.  The 
incorrectly dated letter didnt cause a financial loss. And I havent found that the impact of 
sending a maturity  letter one day early is sufficient for me to fairly award compensation. 
Mr B says his queries  were badly handled  and he received poor customer service  when he 
called the Post Office shortly after maturity. Ive recently got copies  of those calls and asked 
the investigator to share them with Mr B. During  the calls,  I heard that the conversations 
became heated at points. Mr B didnt  accept that the Post Office had acted correctly when it 
opened the Easy Saver account. And its clear that the Post Office didnt have all the 
answers Mr B wanted - the call handlers  didnt know why Mr B had been sent a maturity 
letter a day early. 
Whilst I note Mr Bs comments, I thought the calls were handled professionally. I appreciate  
Mr B doesnt  agree  that its the Post Offices standard process to open an Easy  Saver 
account for matured funds  and became frustrated when he was given that information.  But 
Im satisfied that was the correct position and I think the call handlers  were trying to relay 
that. I havent found that the calls were  handled badly or that Mr B received poor service.  
Ive considered everything both Mr B and the Post Office have sent us. Having done  so, I am 
satisfied that the Post Office was following the correct process  when it opened an Easy  
Saver account shortly before Mr Bs existing bond matured. There is no financial loss in this 
case and I havent  found that the service  provided was poor. I accept that the maturity  letter  
was sent a day early  but havent  been  persuaded there are grounds to make  an award. For 
the reasons Ive given above,  I havent  been persuaded to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8492820