K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about the charges Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (HC) is requiring him to pay 
following the end of his car leasing agreement.  
background
Mr N says he disagrees with some of the items of damage HC is charging  him for. He says 
he feels it should be classed as fair wear and tear. And he questions  the price  its charging 
him for some of the items of damage. 
HC says its end of contract  process and assessment of damage  is linked  to fair wear and 
tear standards laid down by an organisation widely recognised  in the car leasing industry.  It 
says these standards are advised  to its customers and are part of the contract terms. It says 
an inspector fully trained to these standards  inspected Mr Ns car and the inspection report 
was used to calculate the charges  for damage falling outside the defined fair wear and tear 
standard.
So, HC says, whilst  it appreciates Mr Ns frustration,  it confirms  the charges have been  
correctly raised, so its unable to uphold his complaint.  
Our investigator thought Mr Ns complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said it isnt possible to drive the car 
without putting  his feet down in the area of carpet where theres  a hole HCs charging him 
for. And he said as the charge is to cover repairs to the car, he should be entitled to see 
evidence the repairs were done,  otherwise he should be entitled to a refund.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
I see whilst  Mr Ns referred to several items of damage HCs charged him for, hes 
particularly unhappy  about the charge  of around  £460 for a carpet with a hole in it. So my 
decision concentrates  on that issue.
Mr Ns leasing  agreement required him to return the car in a good condition  and I see the 
covering letter HC sent him at the start of the agreement highlighted this obligation  and that 
the condition of the car would be assessed by reference to a set of guidelines widely 
recognised in the car leasing industry.  
The principle  underlying the guidelines  Ive referred  to is that car leasing businesses should  
be able to recover the cost of any defect  likely  to have  an adverse impact on the resale  value 
of the car. 
Ref: DRN89204382I see the defects Mr Ns been charged for relate to scratches and dents to paintwork, scuffs  
to alloy wheels and soiled  upholstery as well as the charge for the replacement  cost of a 
carpet with a hole in it.     
Ive looked carefully  at the various images of each defect Mr N takes  issue  with. Ive also 
looked at his reasons why he thinks he shouldnt be charged for these defects and Ive 
looked at the industry standard guidelines against  which his car was inspected at the end of 
his leasing agreement. And Im satisfied from what Ive seen that HCs decision to charge 
him for each of these defects is in accordance  with those  guidelines  and is reasonable.
In relation to the charge  for the hole in the carpet that Mr Ns particularly unhappy  about,  I 
acknowledge he says he needed to put his foot on the relevant area of carpet  to be able to 
drive the car. And Ive sympathy for him. But I also see the guidelines  Ive referred to 
specifically say that holes in carpets dont amount to fair wear  and tear. And I think its 
reasonable to conclude  that damage  of this nature is likely to reduce the resale value  of a 
car. So, I cant uphold  this aspect of Mr Ns complaint.
I note Mr N is also unhappy that hes being  charged  for these defects  but he hasnt been 
given any confirmation  that the repair work  has been  carried out. I can understand his 
concern about  this matter. But the guidelines  Ive referred to entitle  HC to charge him for any 
defect thats likely to adversely  affect the resale  value of the car, regardless of whether or 
not it actually  carries  out the repairs.
So, for theses reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  require HC to remove  the charges Mr N 
disputes. And this means I cant uphold his complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8920438