K821x#15Complaint
Miss K says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
Background
This complaint is about ten high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny provided 
to Miss K from June  2015 onwards. Miss Ks last loan was provided in February 2017. Our 
adjudicator upheld Miss Ks complaint and thought she shouldnt  have  been  provided with 
loans 5 to 10. Despite  being chased for one, Sunny didnt provide a response. So the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss K, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss K was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 5. 
I say this because  by this stage  Miss K exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further  
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. And proportionate checks would also have 
shown that Miss K also had similar loans  with other  providers. Sunny continued lending to 
Ref: DRN82533052Miss K even when this pattern  was repeated and in circumstances  where it ought reasonably 
to have realised that any further loans were more  likely than not unsustainable  for her. 
Miss K had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss K paid on all loans 5 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ks credit  file about loans 5 and 6;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans 7 to 
10 on Miss Ks credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these loans 
should be removed  from Miss Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ks complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss K compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8253305