K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy as he feels that Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers  Limited  (Alan  Boswell) mis-
sold his landlords  insurance policy.
background
Mr J took out a landlords insurance policy through Alan Boswell  for a house he rented to 
tenants in November 2018. Alan Boswell placed  Mr J with one of their panel of insurers. 
In December 2018 Mr J reported that the house had been damaged and made  a claim to his 
insurers. The insurers sent an expert to speak to Mr J. They  subsequently declined  the claim 
as Mr J hadnt disclosed to Alan Boswell that hed previously  been the director of two 
companies that had been placed  into insolvency. 
Mr J complained to Alan Boswell. He said that he hadnt been  asked about any previous 
company ownership  or directorship when he took the policy out and he didnt feel it was 
relevant. He said the policy  had been  mis-sold to him.
Alan Boswell  explained to Mr J that, although  he hadnt been  asked about any previous 
company ownership  or directorship when he called and got the quotation, he had been  sent 
the quote and Statement of Fact before accepting the policy.  And the Statement of Fact 
contained a question about any previous insolvency that needed to be declared. It had been 
answered No by Alan Boswell, but the Statement of Fact also made it clear that Mr J had to 
check all the information and let Alan Boswell  know if anything was incorrect and needed 
amending.
Mr J later called  Alan Boswell  to accept the policy.  He didnt notify them  of any changes  to 
the original quotation and paid the premium quoted.  As Mr J didnt notify  Alan Boswell of any 
changes they said the policy hadnt been  mis-sold. 
Mr J brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He said that the 
requirement of Mr J is for him to let Alan Boswell  know of any information that could affect 
the policy. And he said the Statement of Fact is part of the overall sales process and gave 
Mr J the opportunity to make the necessary corrections. So the policy  hadnt been  mis-sold.
Mr J didnt agree so its been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking       
Alan Boswell  to do anything more. Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that Im only considering the actions of Alan Boswell here.  A separate  
complaint has been brought  to our service about  the insurers decision to decline the claim 
so I wont comment on that within this decision.
Mr J is unhappy as his policy  keeps being referred  to as a commercial insurance policy, 
which he doesnt agree  with. He feels hes being  penalised unfairly as he only has one 
house that he lets out as a private landlord.  But even if I consider Mr J to be a consumer 
rather than a commercial policyholder I wouldnt  say that the policy  has been mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN89145102Mr J called Alan Boswell for the quote and asked for the quote to be sent to him. He didnt  
pay for the policy at this time. Alan Boswell  gave  Mr J the quote on a non-advised basis. 
That means they had a requirement to provide Mr J with information that was clear,  fair and 
not misleading to him. This would enable Mr J to decide if the policy was suitable for him. 
Alan Boswells sales agent sent Mr J the quote  and the Statement of Fact for him to read 
through and amend if necessary. 
The Statement of Fact is very clear. It says:
WARNING  YOU MUST CHECK ALL THE INFORMATION IN THE POLICY  SCHEDULE 
AND THIS  STATEMENT  OF FACT WHICH  DETAIL THE EXTENT OF YOUR COVER AND  
TELL ALAN BOSWELL  INSURANCE BROKERS IMMEDIATELY  IF ANY DETAILS ARE 
INCORRECT, INCOMPLETE OR HAVE BEEN OMITTED. FAILURE  TO DO SO MAY 
MEAN THAT YOUR INSURANCE POLICY IS NOT  VALID OR THAT ALL OR PART  OF 
YOUR CLAIM(S) WILL  NOT BE PAID.  
And under the general information on the first page  of the Statement  of Fact it asks Mr J if 
hes ever:
Been  declared  bankrupt or insolvent or been  disqualified from being  a company 
director or been involved as owner Director  or Partner with any company which went 
into receivership, administration or liquidation?
This has been answered No by Alan Boswell. Whilst it may have been good  industry  
practice if Alan Boswell had asked Mr J this question, Im satisfied that its clear enough on 
the Statement of Fact and isnt hidden.  The Statement of Fact does also confirm the 
information recorded is based on the information  provided by Mr J as well as some  
assumptions made about him and/or his business. Had Mr J opened the email and read the 
paperwork enclosed Im satisfied he would have known some  of the information had been 
assumed  and at this point he would have been  able to correct it with Alan Boswell. But he 
didnt open or read the email. I cant hold Alan Boswell responsible for that. They had a duty 
to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to Mr J. Im satisfied they did that. 
Having received the quote Mr J called Alan Boswell to pay for the policy. At this stage he 
didnt notify them of any changes to the original quote provided and he paid the quoted 
amount. Having paid for the policy Mr J was sent the Statement of Fact again along with 
confirmation that the house was now insured.
Mr J complains that the Statement of Fact was towards the end of the paperwork sent to him 
and should have been more prominent. But hes also confirmed  that he didnt open the 
documents or read the email so where  the Statement of Fact was placed  is irrelevant in this 
case.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied that, in this particular case, the policy wasnt 
mis-sold to Mr J. He had opportunities prior to accepting the quotation to read the 
information about himself  that the policy was being  calculated on and opportunities to correct 
it before  entering  into the policy.
I wont be asking Alan Boswell  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN89145103my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8914510