K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) refused to cover a claim for 
legal costs under his legal expenses insurance  policy.
background
Mr P approached his insurance broker for help following a dispute with a property  
management agent. RSA appointed a panel firm to consider that claim under the terms of Mr 
Ps legal expenses insurance  policy.  In June 2018 the panel  firm concluded the claim wasnt 
one which  would attract cover under  the policy because Mr Ps contract  with the 
management agent took place before  the policy was in place. 
When Mr P made his claim he also said he intended to claim for evicting his tenant but he 
didnt pursue that claim any further. In May 2018  Mr Ps broker  asked for RSA to review this 
claim so RSA began  to do that. It asked the broker to confirm  the date Mr P became aware 
that his tenant  changed  from a private one to one that was in receipt of state benefits. 
Almost a month later Mr Ps broker told RSA Mr P had incurred legal  costs  for pursuing his 
tenant for eviction. In response RSA said any costs  incurred  without  their consent werent 
covered and that it would  need further  information to consider covering his claim going 
forward. It also pointed out that either their panel firm or Mr Ps own solicitor  would need to 
assess the claim before they could confirm whether cover was available.  Nothing further was 
received from Mr P or his broker in response  to this. 
Mr P now wishes  to claim for the costs hes incurred in respect of the eviction proceedings. 
He feels that RSA should cover these. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and concluded that it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr P 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
The starting point  is the policy terms. For eviction proceedings  they exclude Legal 
Expenses that have not been agreed  in advance or are above those for which  Our 
Administrator has given  their prior written  approval.
In this case RSA didnt agree to the costs Mr P incurred in pursuing eviction proceedings 
against his tenant. I appreciate that the claim was notified to RSA but I dont think  this means  
they need to cover it. Rather RSA asked for further  information and made  clear  the claim 
needed to be assessed before it could consider whether to afford cover. 
I know Mr Ps broker has argued that Mr P didnt have the information RSA had asked for 
when they responded to the request  to set up a claim. But neither Mr P or his broker told 
RSA that, nor was RSA given the opportunity to assess the claim. Its also been suggested 
that Mr Ps claim was declined by RSA. But having considered  everything,  I dont think  that 
was the case.  I agree  that Mr Ps claim in relation to the property management company was 
declined but thats not the same  claim that Mr P now wishes  to recover his costs  for. So I 
Ref: DRN83044252dont agree that RSA unfairly turned down this claim- rather it asked for further  information  to 
assess it but that wasnt forthcoming.
Mr P says he didnt get back to RSA with the information it needed to assess  his claim due 
to extenuating circumstances. Hes explained  this was due to the birth of his first child.  
Whilst I appreciate this might have  been  a busy time for him, the costs hes claiming for 
appear to have been incurred at the time and following his request for cover. Given  he was 
able to pursue  legal proceedings at this time, Id have expected either Mr P or his solicitor to 
have been able to engage with RSAs claims process too. Because  of this I dont  agree that 
theres a good  reason why RSA shouldnt be able to rely on their policy terms in this 
complaint.
Finally, I know  Mr P has talked about  obtaining retrospective cover  for his costs.  The policy 
term Ive set out above make clear such cover  isnt available under the policy.  So I wont be 
recommending it do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304425