K820x#14complaint
Y, a limited  company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc gave it incorrect  information about 
whether a card payment  it had received  could  be returned.
background
Y had a merchant services agreement with a third party financial business. Y took a card 
payment from a customer for nearly £17,000  in October 2018 as a down payment on an 
item. This payment was processed by the third party that paid a related credit into Ys bank 
account at Bank of Scotland. A director of Y contacted Bank of Scotland to ask if this 
payment could be returned and was told it couldnt. Bank  of Scotland accepts that it did not 
discuss the possibility  of the card payment being fraudulent. The goods were  released and a 
further payment  of over £26,500  was taken. Unfortunately the payments were reported  as 
fraudulent and the third party is requiring Y to repay  the money. Bank of Scotland paid Y 
£150 for the inconvenience caused and £24 towards call costs.
Our investigator did not recommend that Bank of Scotland do anything  more. It was only 
giving general  information to Y and could  not have said that the payment was fraudulent.  If Y 
had received a fraudulent payment through any other means  it would have been required to 
pay this back. The director  had not been  able to say what  Y would have done differently 
even if it had been told about the risk of fraud.
The director  of Y did not agree. He said that Y had taken  the money in good  faith and had 
waited for the funds  to clear. He asked  if the money could be taken back  and Bank  of 
Scotland had said no. If Y had known it would have refunded the money  and still had the 
item. Y holds Bank of Scotland responsible for giving incorrect  information leading  to it 
making a loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Y released an expensive item and is being required to pay the money it 
received for this back. The person primarily responsible for the loss is the person that made 
fraudulent card payments. And I dont doubt that Y acted  in good faith as it says.
As Ive set out the agreement for the processing of these card payments  was with another 
business. Im not looking into what that third party did and Bank of Scotland  had no role in 
that original card payment. So I wont be considering what checks or contact Y had with the 
third party about  the payment and how it was processed or authorised.
At best Bank  of Scotland was answering a general  question about a payment. It accepts it 
would have been helpful if it had mentioned  the possibility of card fraud. But by not 
mentioning that I cant see it fairly assumes responsibility for effectively guaranteeing  that 
first payment  and the subsequent one. And nor does this remove the responsibility from Y to 
have already made its own checks to ensure that its customer was genuine  especially for 
such a large purchase.
In addition our investigator  has gone on to consider what Y would have done differently had 
Bank of Scotland mentioned the possibility of fraud.  It might have made further  checks  but 
Ref: DRN87230082it would  reasonably have been  expected  to do them anyway.  It might have asked for a 
different form of payment  but again it would never have been  entitled to fraudulent funds 
however they were  received.  I dont think waiting for a period would necessarily have 
resolved things either as a claim could only have  come when the genuine  cardholder  
realised what had happened and that wouldnt be predictable. I know Y says it wouldnt have 
sold the item but Im afraid that it had already done  so here and I think it unlikely Y would 
have decided to refund the money without any firm basis for thinking it was fraudulent.  
But in any event Im afraid I dont  have a reasonable basis to require Bank  of Scotland  to do 
anything further  than make the payment of compensation for inconvenience and towards the 
cost of phone calls as it has already done.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Bank of Scotland  plc need  
do no more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8723008