K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
background
Miss H changed from a fee free bank account  to an URCA in February  2010  following a 
conversation with Bank of Scotland in a branch.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including phone  insurance, travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover and home emergency cover.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Hs complaint  and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. 
Miss H disagrees so the case  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Miss H was aware the URCA was optional  and 
whether she was given  a clear choice in taking  the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was. Miss H says she was told by Bank of Scotland  
that she needed to have  a URCA to get an overdraft. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Miss Hs honest recollections,  I think after the years  that have elapsed,  
Miss Hs memory is mistaken.  I say this because she had previously had a fee free bank 
account with an overdraft with Bank of Scotland for some time.  And in my view there  isnt 
anything about  her circumstances as she described them or from the evidence  of her bank  
records that I think would have led her to believe  that she couldnt get a fee free account 
even if shed been told that. 
I think its more likely than not that she wouldve been aware at the time of sale or shortly  
thereafter that fee free accounts with overdrafts  were easily available  to her from 
Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial businesses.  And if she had taken the URCA 
and then decided  she was unhappy with it she could have cancelled her account  and 
changed to a fee free one but she didnt and she still has the URCA.  And while the URCA 
did provide her access to discounted overdraft facilities, not having one didnt exclude her 
from having an overdraft  from Bank  of Scotland.
So I think Miss H was aware she had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Miss H to take it, but 
Miss H says it did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to 
Miss Hs advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. 
Ref: DRN84686732So, Bank of Scotland needed to provide  Miss H with sufficient information  about the URCA 
to make an informed choice. And in recommending the URCA,  it also needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure  that the URCA was a reasonable fit for Miss Hs circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the URCA was suitable for 
Miss H. I say this because she had a mobile  phone and subsequently registered it for cover. 
She was interested in travelling as she made  an enquiry about the travel insurance  shortly  
after taking out the URCA. She could  use the car breakdown assistance whether she was 
driving a car or simply a passenger and I consider it more likely than not that she did travel  
by car at the time even  if she couldnt  drive or didnt have access to a car as she says. 
She benefitted from the URCAs better  overdraft  rates soon after taking out the account. And 
she could have taken  advantage of the home emergency cover, purchase protection and 
other benefits offered.
From what  Miss H has said about  her personal circumstances at the time she took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop her taking advantage of the URCAs benefits.
Miss H says she thinks she may have had alternative arrangements  for some of these 
things. But it wouldve been  for her to end that and use her account when she was ready. 
For completeness, Miss H has said that she couldnt get home  insurance  cover unless she 
took out buildings insurance under her URCA;  and she says she wasnt  told that her 16 year 
old child wouldnt be covered by the travel  insurance.
But the URCA didnt  provide  home  insurance or buildings insurance so I think Miss H is 
mistaken in her memory  of this. 
And the fact that one member  of her family couldnt be covered by the travel insurance didnt 
of itself remove the value of the rest of her family being covered. So I dont think either of 
these would have  put Miss H off buying the URCA when she did.
So in my view, Miss H knew she had a choice about  the URCA and decided to take it; the 
URCA was suitable for Miss H, and there was no information that she wasnt given that 
would have put her off buying it.
So I dont  think she has lost out as result of anything Bank  of Scotland  may have done 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Ref: DRN84686733Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8468673