K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Vitality Health Limited handled a claim made under a group  
private medical insurance policy. Mr L is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs L.
background
In 2017, Mr L was admitted to an NHS hospital  as an emergency.  He had unfortunately 
experienced a stroke.  A few days later, Mrs L contacted Vitality as she wanted  Mr L to be 
moved to a private  hospital. Vitality  accepted  the claim, however as there  wasnt a private 
hospital nearby  with a specialist stroke unit, Mrs L changed her mind  and her husband 
remained in the NHS  hospital until he was discharged a few days  later.  
The policy allows  for a cash  benefit to be paid if eligible treatment is received in an NHS 
hospital. Vitality refused  to pay this. It said Mr L wasnt entitled to NHS cash benefit as hed 
been admitted  to the NHS hospital as an emergency. Mrs L asked Vitality if it would pay for 
neuro-physio that had been  recommended  for her husband after hed been discharged. 
Vitality again refused.  It said the policy excluded rehabilitation. It did offer rehabilitation for 
stroke patients, but only in certain circumstances, which Mr L didnt  meet. Unhappy with 
Vitalitys refusal to deal with these two aspects of the claim, Mr L brought a complaint to this 
service.  
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019. My findings were:
NHS cash benefit
The policy explains  NHS  cash benefit isnt paid for emergency admission to an NHS 
hospital. However, I think it would become payable if the member is later able to be 
transferred to a private facility but chooses not to. 
On 3 December,  Mr L was admitted to an NHS hospital as an emergency.  On 6 December, 
Mrs L contacted Vitality to make  enquiries about transferring her husband  to a private facility. 
She tells us she did this after speaking to her husbands consultant and obtaining his 
agreement. Vitality accepted the claim but said the hospital Mrs L wanted her husband 
moved to wasnt on his hospital list. The adviser offered to transfer her to another team who 
would be able to discuss where he could be transferred. Mrs L wasnt  able to speak to the 
team at that time, but the adviser gave her the claim number and advised her to call back 
when she was able.  Mrs L has explained she chose not to go ahead with the transfer  
because there were no private  hospitals nearby with specialist stroke units. 
Vitality thinks  it unlikely  Mr Ls consultant  would have allowed him to transfer, even  if there 
had been a nearby private hospital  with a specialist  stroke unit. 
I havent seen  confirmation from the consultant  about whether or not he would  have allowed 
Mr L to be transferred. Given the time thats now passed, I dont think  it would be appropriate  
to go back to the consultant for his opinion on this. It does seem plausible  that Mr L could 
have been transferred to a private  hospital on 6 December, given that he was discharged 
from the NHS hospital two days later anyway. But I cant be sure either way. 
However, I think Vitality was at fault for accepting the claim before obtaining this information 
from the treating  consultant. Therefore, on a fair and reasonable basis,  I think  it should  pay 
NHS cash benefit from 6 December until Mr L was discharged. 
Ref: DRN83958772claim for physio 
Mrs L called  Vitality after her husband had been discharged, and asked  if it would cover  the 
neuro-physio her husband needed.  Vitality hasnt been able to provide  a copy of that call, but 
its system notes say its adviser told Mrs L the physio wouldnt be covered unless it was an 
integral part of an in-patient  stay and was being  carried out at a specialised rehabilitation 
unit. The adviser noted the physio was going  to be carried out at a nearby clinic  rather than a 
rehabilitation unit. 
The policy says:
We will not pay for the following treatments:

rehabilitation following treatment, except in the circumstances detailed in 
paragraph 1.7 in Important information about  your cover
The policy defines  rehabilitation  as Medical services  aimed  at restoring a persons function 
and independence following eligible in-patient  treatment of a disease, illness or injury.
Paragraph 1.7 says:
Cover is available for rehabilitation following a stroke or injury. The rehabilitation 
must be integral  to eligible  in-patient  treatment, should start no more  than two 
months after initial diagnosis or date of injury, will be covered for a maximum of 21 
days only and will be managed within our guidelines for chronic  conditions.  To be 
eligible a consultant should  make  the referral  to a rehabilitation unit.
I havent seen  any medical evidence, but Mrs L explains  her husband needed  the physio to 
help him get back  the use of his left arm and left leg following his stroke. Ive furthermore 
concluded that NHS cash benefit should be paid for the last two days  Mr L spent in an NHS 
hospital, which effectively  means those two days would be considered  eligible in-patient 
treatment, for the purposes of this policy.  It does therefore seem  as though the physio would 
fall under the rehabilitation definition. Thats only covered in the circumstances described in 
paragraph 1.7 above.  
The physio Mr L had took place on an out-patient basis after hed been discharged  from 
hospital. I therefore accept that the physio wasnt  integral  to his in-patient treatment. That 
means that Mr Ls out-patient physio wouldnt fall under  the cover for rehabilitation following 
a stroke. 
Im therefore  satisfied it was reasonable for Vitality to turn down the claim for the physio. 
Although Mr L hasnt paid for the physio  hes had as this was done under the NHS, Mrs L 
has explained theyve  paid for Mr L to have some acupuncture. She says Mr L went  to see a 
private GP who told him to try various means  of therapy to help his left arm and leg. He 
therefore had four sessions of acupuncture. 
Again, based  on what Mrs L has said, it does seem  as though the acupuncture would fall 
under the heading of rehabilitation, which isnt covered. But if Mrs L disagrees  and wants 
Vitality to consider  the claim after looking at the medical evidence, she should contact Vitality 
directly.
Ref: DRN83958773I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wish me to consider. 
Vitality responded  to say it was incorrect for me to say it was plausible  that Mr L may have 
been able to be transferred to a private  hospital. It says there wasnt a private  hospital  for 
him to transfer so, so this was never a possibility.  It also says that because  Mr L had been 
admitted to the NHS  hospital as an emergency, he wouldnt  have been eligible  for any NHS 
cash benefit even  if he could have been transferred  to a private hospital. 
Mrs L responded to say she thinks NHS  cash benefit should be paid from 3 December, as 
this was when  her husband was admitted to hospital. She also says she thinks  Vitalitys  
website is misleading.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality doesnt think Mr L could have been transferred to a private facility. Mrs L initially  
wanted her husband transferred to a particular private hospital because of the stroke  unit 
there. However, Vitality  confirmed that particular hospital wasnt  on Mr Ls hospital list. It 
offered to try and find another hospital  where Mr L could be transferred,  but Mrs L didnt 
continue with the call. 
I dont know if Vitality  could have found Mr L another suitable private hospital where he could 
have been transferred. I appreciate private  hospitals dont deal with emergencies,  and 
therefore wouldnt have  the necessary facilities to provide emergency treatment immediately 
following a stroke. However,  once someone has received  the initial treatment (if any) for a 
stroke, depending  on the type and severity of their stroke, they may only need to remain in 
hospital for a short  time. I dont think its implausible to say someone who has had a stroke 
may be able to be transferred to a private hospital when they are no longer being treated as 
an emergency. 
In Mr Ls case, he was admitted to the NHS  as an emergency  on 3 December. Mrs L was 
considering the transfer on 6 December, and her husband was discharged from hospital on 
8 December. The policy doesnt pay NHS  cash benefit for an emergency admission to an 
NHS hospital. So I wouldnt expect Vitality to pay this from 3 December, as Mrs L wants. 
Instead, I remain of the opinion  Vitality  should pay NHS cash benefit from 6 December on a 
fair and reasonable basis. Thats because Mrs L explains  her husbands consultant  said he 
could be transferred to a private hospital at this time, and Vitality accepted the claim without 
contacting Mr Ls treating  consultant to confirm this. Given that Mr L was discharged from 
the NHS  two days later, I still think its plausible that Mr L wasnt  being treated as an 
emergency on 6 December and therefore could have been transferred to a private hospital 
at this time.
Id also point out that its only because  Ive found that NHS cash  benefit should  be paid for 
two days (and therefore those days would be effectively  considered  eligible in-patient 
treatment), that Mr Ls physio falls under the policys  rehabilitation definition.  If I were to 
agree with Vitality  that NHS cash benefit  shouldnt be paid, its likely I would have agreed 
with the adjudicator that Mr Ls treatment for physio would fall under the out-patient benefit.
Ref: DRN83958774Vitality says that because  Mr L had been admitted to the NHS hospital  as an emergency,  he 
wouldnt have been eligible for any NHS cash benefit even if he could have been transferred 
to a private hospital.  Ive already addressed  this in my provisional  decision. However, to 
clarify, I accept NHS cash benefit isnt payable for an emergency  admission to an NHS  
hospital. But I think it would become  payable  if the member is able to be transferred to a 
private facility but chooses to remain under the NHS. 
Mrs L says she thinks  Vitalitys  website is misleading. Shes pointed out that the website 
says private medical  insurance gives guaranteed fast access to healthcare, without any 
uncertainty or the possibility  of being put on a waiting list.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs L is unhappy  that her husband wasnt able to make a successful 
claim under the policy, I dont think the information  on Vitalitys  website  is misleading.  Private  
medical insurance cant cover everything,  and so long as treatment is covered by the policy  
terms, it is correct  to say that having the insurance allows fast access to healthcare,  rather  
than being put on a waiting list. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Vitality Health Limited to do 
the following:
pay NHS cash benefit from 6 December  until Mr L was discharged  from hospital.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8395877