K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  T.M. Sutton  Limited  (trading as Suttons  & Robertson) sold jewellery she 
had pawned even  though  shed kept up with her payments.
background
Ms S pawned a number  of items of jewellery  at Suttons & Robertson. The pawn agreements 
lasted six months, at the end of which there was an option to redeem the items or take out 
another six month agreement.
Ms S says she called Suttons & Robertson in October 2017  to find out how much it would 
cost to redeem her items. She was overseas  at the time helping her terminally  ill mother  who 
sadly passed away in November 2017. Suttons & Robertson says that Ms S asked it if itd be 
able to hold onto the items for a while after shed paid for them  given that she was overseas 
looking after her mother. Suttons  & Robertson says it agreed  to do so for 30 days.
Suttons & Robertson says Ms S called  again on 17 November 2017 to find out how much  
shed have to pay to redeem her items.  Ms S paid just over £1,600 on 22 November 2017 to 
redeem her items.
Suttons & Robertson says Ms S didnt  come and collect her items and that it tried to contact 
her on 5 February 2018 to say that theyd be sold at auction if she hadnt contacted it. 
Suttons & Robertson says it couldnt get through on Ms Ss phone number so it sent her an 
email instead.
Suttons & Robertson says it didnt  hear back from Ms S so it sold her items at auction and 
returned the money shed paid less interest  and expenses. Ms S says she called Suttons & 
Robertson when  she found out her money  had been returned. She complained  about  it 
selling her items at auction saying that they were of great sentimental value and that they 
shouldnt have been sold.
Suttons & Robertson investigated Ms Ss complaint  but didnt uphold it. It offered to let Ms S 
buy back one of the items as it had not sold at auction and was in its collection. Ms S 
complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ss complaint but didnt uphold  it. She didnt think  
Suttons & Robertson had acted unfairly. Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint. So thats what Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suttons & Robertson wrote to Ms S three  times during September and October 2017 to say 
that the redemption period for the items shed pawned had ended. The letters said that if it 
didnt hear back the items would be sold at auction.  The letters were sent to a UK address 
Suttons & Robertson had on file. Ms S was overseas at the time, and the letters  were 
returned undelivered. I dont think that makes  a real difference in this case  because  both 
parties agree that they spoke to each other on the phone.
Ref: DRN84667592The parties spoke  on 17 November 2017.  The redemption periods for all three  agreements  
had ended meaning Suttons & Robertson was entitled to sell the items pawned. Ms S paid 
Suttons & Roberts just over £1,600  on 22 November  2017  five days after the call - to stop 
her items going to auction. Suttons & Robertson then held onto the items until February 
2018. It says it told Ms S that it would  hold onto the items for 30 days and that she said shed 
come and get them in a weeks time. I dont think I need to make a finding about that 
because Suttons & Robertson held onto the items for much longer than that.
On 5 February 2018 Suttons & Robertson tried to call Ms S on her mobile but it wasnt 
working. Ms S had a UK mobile number which her ex-partner used to pay for. I accept  that 
Ms S couldnt use this mobile to make or receive  calls from September  2017 onwards 
because her ex-partner  cut it off. Ms S, however, still had the handset  an iPhone  and this 
meant she was able to send or receive  emails when she had access  to the internet. That 
wasnt all the time because she was living overseas, but Im satisfied that she had access  to 
the internet from time to time as she stayed in or visited  hotels to, amongst other  things, 
send faxes to make payments from her account in the UK as shed lost her debit card. Ms S 
also had a pay as you go mobile which she could receive and make calls on. She says she 
gave Suttons & Robertson  the number for that phone  the number had belonged to her 
mother. So I do think Ms S was able to contact Suttons & Robertson and was contactable.
Suttons & Robertson says that it emailed Ms S on 5 February 2018  having tried to call her 
on her mobile number  to say that it would  sell her items if it didnt hear back  by 10 
February 2018. Ive seen  a copy of that email. Ive also seen emails  sent from Ms Ss iPhone  
from the same address  to which the email  was sent. Although I cannot say for certain  that 
Ms S saw the email, I think its more likely than not that she did before her items were  sent 
for auction given  that this didnt happen until 21 March  2018. I know that Ms S had a lot on at 
the time,  but I cant say that Suttons  & Robertson  acting  unfairly  auctioning the items given 
the attempts it had made to contact Ms S and the lack of response.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8466759