K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that MYJAR Limited failed to properly notify him about a default it applied  to 
his account, failed to negotiate  a repayment  plan and provided poor customer  service.
background
Mr C borrowed  £1,650  from Myjar on 24 Sep 2015.  It was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments, but after he paid the first instalment, Mr C told Myjar he was in financial 
difficulties.
Mr C says Myjar failed to negotiate a settlement with him, applied a default to the account 
over two years later and continued to send emails  to the incorrect address. He says Myjar 
didnt reply to his grievances and he wants the default removed from his credit  file and the 
outstanding balance reduced. Mr C says the situation has lead to his credit score  being 
negatively affected  and its caused him to become stressed.
Myjar says it froze  interest  and charges on Mr Cs account when he contacted it and set up a 
repayment plan at £50 per month.  However, it says Mr C only made  the first two £50 
repayments and failed to respond  to emails or text messages. So, it says,  the arrangement  
for the discounted  balance was cancelled, and the loan was sent to a debt collection agency.
Myjar says it sent Mr C a default  notice  on 7 July 2018 which  said a default would be 
registered if no payment  was made  by 4 August 2018. The loan was also handed back to 
Myjar from the debt collection agency. Myjar says it didnt hear from Mr C until 6 August 
2018 but says he then offered to pay £50 on 15 September 2018 and increase each 
instalment by £10 each  month.
However, Myjar says that when Mr C received the repayment plan via email, he replied  to 
say it wasnt as he agreed. It says that, although Mr C responded on 10 September  2018 
about issues with his debit card, he did not provide  details about the payment plan. Despite 
further attempts  to contact Mr C, Myjar says it next heard from him on 31 December 2018, 
when he raised  this complaint.
Myjar concluded that the default was registered correctly  and advised  that all interest  and 
charges were frozen  on 10 July 2016.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found Myjar acted 
fairly by agreeing  a repayment plan and freezing interest and charges on the loan.  She 
added that, because Mr C did not respond  to the default notice by the deadline, Myjar was 
entitled to apply the default to his account.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that, Myjar did not communicate with him directly 
regarding settlement negotiations and were using an old email address, rather  than sending 
a letter  to his home  address. He says he did not receive the communications Myjar said it 
sent via email and text and that he regards  such methods as insufficient. Mr C adds  that the 
default was added years  after it was proper  to do so and Myjar did not offer any flexibility  
with regard to a lack of a final settlement figure  and a method of payment.
Ref: DRN87145152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made  his first loan payment on time in October 2015, but then requested a loan top-up 
or rollover in November. Myjar declined this request and, subsequently, Mr C failed  to make 
his November payment.  When he contacted Myjar to tell it hed lost his job, it agreed to set 
up a repayment  plan on the basis that Mr C said he would be able to clear the balance by 
February 2016.
Mr C missed the repayment that was due on 3 Jan 2016, so Myjar then agreed to defer the 
repayment for a week, with Mr C now saying  hed clear the balance in March.  Although  Mr C 
did make  the January  payment,  he made  no further payments and, as he also failed  to 
contact Myjar, it cancelled  the repayment  plan.
Myjar froze  all interest and charges in July 2016  and transferred the loan to a debt collection 
agency (DCA) later that year.
Myjar has an obligation to respond  positively and sympathetically to those in financial 
difficulty and Im satisfied that it did so with regard to Mr C in the lead-up to the debt being  
transferred to a third party.
The DCA sent further emails and letters to Mr C towards the end of 2016 and into 2017,  but 
the loan was handed back to Myjar in 2018,  when  it failed to collect  the outstanding debt. It 
was at this point that Myjar  issued a default  notice on 7 July 2018.
I accept that Mr C says the loan should  have been  defaulted earlier, but I dont consider it 
was unreasonable for Myjar to have waited  until 2018 given its attempts to recover the 
money via repayment  plans and a DCA initially. I also acknowledge that Mr C says he did 
not receive the default notice because  it was sent to an old email  address and not to his 
home. But Ive now received  evidence that the default notice was sent,  and Im satisfied it 
was sent to a valid email  address. I say that because Mr C responded to emails  from Myjar, 
sent to the same address,  both before and after the default notice was sent.
As Mr C did not respond to the default  notice within the timescale specified,  I cant  conclude  
Myjar was wrong to apply  the default  to Mr Cs credit  file when it did.
Nevertheless, Mr C did then respond  to the termination notice in August 2018 and Myjar 
agreed to set up a further repayment plan.  There was a delay in Mr C receiving the plan due 
to a system error, but he finally received it on 31 August 2018. I accept Mr C says the 
repayment plan wasnt quite as hed thought hed agreed after the first six months,  so Myjar 
confirmed the amount  of the first payment and requested an income  and expenditure 
analysis to finalise  future  payments.
Following Mr Cs confirmation that his debit card no longer existed, Myjar attempted  to 
contact him for payment,  but the first payment scheduled for September  2018 failed and 
again the loan was referred to a DCA.
When Mr C complained to Myjar it put his loan repayment on hold until March  2019 whilst it 
investigated. However no payment was received in March.
Ref: DRN87145153Myjar says Mr C is still welcome  to contact it to arrange a new repayment  plan and it will 
mark his credit file as Settled once payment has been received.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Myjar has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances 
of Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714515