K821x#15Complaint
Mrs T says J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about three catalogue shopping accounts J D Williams provided to Mrs T in 
2012 and 2013. Account A was opened in August  2012  and Mrs T was initially  given a credit 
limit of £125.  This limit was increased 6 times until it eventually  reached £1,800.00 in 
January 2014.  Account B was opened  in April 2013  and Mrs T was initially  given a credit 
limit of £125.  This limit was also increased  6 times until it eventually reached £1,700.00 in 
August 2014.  
Account C was opened in May 2013 and Mrs T was initially given a credit limit of £125. This 
limit on this account was increased 5 times until it eventually reached £1,400.00 in 
September 2014. Mrs T fell into arrears and all her accounts were eventually  sold on in 
October 2016. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ts complaint and thought no limit increases on any of 
the accounts should have  been provided  by October  2013. J D Williams didnt  respond  and 
the complaint  was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could afford  to repay what she was being  lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN83501622There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought it J D Williams unfairly  increased  the 
credit limits on Mrs Ts accounts  from October 2013  onwards.  As J D Williams  didnt 
respond, I dont know what  it thinks our adjudicator  got wrong.
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with     
Mrs T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams 
should have realised that it shouldnt have increased  Mrs Ts credit limits. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ts case,  I also think that this point was reached in 
October 2013. I say this because by this point  J D Williams was increasing Mrs Ts credit  
limit on account A for the fourth time and shed missed at least one payment  across her 
accounts. Equally  there was also now the prospect  of her owing £1,800.00 across the 
accounts. And this means that I think J D Williams  needed to do more  to establish  that Mrs T 
could repay  what she was about  to be lent.  
If J D Williams had done this, it would have seen Mrs T was having difficulty managing her 
money. Mrs Ts indebtedness had increased  elsewhere and she was now starting to use 
short-term loans to get by. So J D Williams ought to have realised Mrs T was already 
struggling to sustainably repay what she owed and that there was a significant risk 
increasing her credit  limit in these circumstances would lead to her indebtedness  increasing 
unsustainably. 
And by December 2014 Mrs Ts repayment record and her failure  to make any sort of 
inroads into what she owed made it clear that she was more  likely than not experiencing 
financial difficulty. So at this stage J D Williams should have stopped  adding  interest  to the 
account and instead exercised forbearance.
I think that Mrs T lost out because J D Williams  continued to increasing Mrs Ts credit limits 
from October 2013 onwards and also it failed to recognise that she was in financial difficulty 
from December 2014 onwards.  In my view J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Mrs Ts 
indebtedness by allowing  her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended  period of 
time and the interest being added  got her into further debt. So J D Williams should put things  
right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework Mrs Ts accounts to ensure  that from October 2013 to December 2014 
onwards interest  is only charged  on the first £500.00  outstanding  on account A; first 
£400 on account B and first £600 on account C to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been  provided.  The rework should  then factor in that no 
interest at all should have been  charged on any of the accounts from December 2014 
onwards. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on any of the accounts once these adjustments  
have been made J D Williams should  contact Mrs T to arrange  suitable repayment 
plans. If J D Williams considers it appropriate  to record negative  information on             
Mrs Ts credit file, it should  backdate this to December 2014.
Ref: DRN83501623OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs T, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Mrs Ts credit  file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
 
From what  Ive seen, J D Williams sold the outstanding balances on these  accounts  to a 
third party debt purchaser. So it either  needs  to buy the accounts back from the third party 
and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary  adjustments,  or pay Mrs T an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ts complaint. J D Williams  & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350162