K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that CIS General Insurance Limited  has unreasonably increased  the price  of 
renewing his home insurance policy from £400  to £3,000 without an explanation.
background
CIS said Mr R has held the policy since 2012. It said it increased the cost of renewing the 
policy in 2019  from £396.55 £3021.25 as a result  of its remodelled  rates,  particularly relating 
to flood risk. Mr R said it was laughable that CIS thought his home was at risk of flooding.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said we dont  set the 
prices insurers  charge or the methods they used to calculate a price. He said CIS has 
provided us with confidential business information  to explain how the increase was 
calculated and he was satisfied the price  had been  calculated correctly. 
Mr R responded that CIS should contact  customers before sending  a renewal quote that is 
ten-fold higher as its alarming for customers.  He said CIS should  have offered a quote for 
cover without flood risk. He asked  how many other customers were  similarly  affected.  
The investigator said the best means  of issuing  renewal  quotes may vary from person to 
person. And we wouldnt expect an insurer to contact customers  before renewal notification 
to inform them of a large increase as this would essentially  become the renewal notification. 
He said as we dont tell insurers how to calculate  their risk and what  they should and 
shouldn't insure,  we cant say they should  offer a quote without flood risk. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr R for the huge rise of premium  he was quoted at renewal of his home  
insurance. But I have  not upheld his complaint  for the same  reasons  given  by the 
investigator. I have  explained these below.
Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses, that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. And so, we won't usually make any judgements  about  the way an insurer chooses 
to assess risk, the risk assessments  it makes  - or the premium  it charges to cover certain 
risks. It's not unusual  for the price of the insurance  policy to increase at renewal. Sometimes 
this may be a general increase in line with inflation.  But other factors  that occur during the 
period of cover could  impact on the premium. Insurers constantly update how they rate the 
risk of consumers. And their rates continually change. Policyholders  are free to reject  the 
renewal offer from their provider and go elsewhere  if they wish.
Mr R said an increase  such  as this concerning the risk of flooding wasnt  realistic.  However, 
it is not for this service to comment on how an insurer  should calculate its risk. CIS bases its 
premiums on risk factors that its underwriters consider, and it says that it accesses accurate 
data in doing this. We have seen  the risk factors  CIS has relied upon and can see that this 
applied to where he lives.
Ref: DRN86429372There is no requirement on how an insurer needs  to communicate an increased renewal 
offer. Im satisfied that CIS has treated Mr R in the same way it has treated its other  
customers in a similar situation.  I havent  seen CIS has made any error  in calculating the 
renewal price of Mr Rs policy  and I cant require it to take alternative action about this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642937