K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc defaulted and closed  his loan despite him having  made  
it aware of his financial difficulties.
background
Mr C took out a loan for £15,000  in January  2018. From March he missed all payments with 
the exception  of April and September 2018.
On 20 June 2018 Lloyds sent him a letter  explaining  that it would be taking further  action due 
to the payments hed missed. It also sent him a letter on 11 July 2018 explaining it had tried 
to contact him to discuss his options for repaying  the outstanding arrears.
On 21 July 2018 Lloyds sent Mr C a default  notice because, by this point, hed only made 
payments in February and April. Later that month he contacted Lloyds to explain that he was 
in financial difficulties, suffering from mental illness and under significant stress due to the ill 
health of his mother, who he cares  for. Shortly afterwards, Lloyds froze  the interest on Mr 
Cs loan account  and asked him to complete an income and expenditure form so his 
repayments could  be restructured.  But Mr C didnt do this.
 
As Mr C made only one further  payment to his loan after this time, Lloyds sent a formal  
demand for him to repay his account  balance  in full. But as no further payments were made 
the account was defaulted  in November. This led to a default marker being  recorded on his 
credit file and his account being passed over to a debt collection company. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds that it shouldnt have defaulted his account given his background 
of financial difficulty.  But it didnt uphold his complaint  because  he hadnt  arranged a 
payment plan as it had asked him to. And it didnt  think  it had unfairly  defaulted his account.
 
So Mr C brought  his complaint to us, where  our investigator didnt uphold it. They didnt think 
Lloyds had done anything wrong or needed to do anything more  here.  They thought that it 
had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr C disagreed and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I appreciate  Mr C feels 
very strongly  about this matter and will be disappointed with my conclusions, so Ill explain 
why I wont be asking  Lloyds to do anything else.
The key issue in this dispute is whether Lloyds acted fairly  in defaulting Mr Cs loan account 
and passing it to a debt collection agency given what  it knew about his financial difficulties.
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it was wrong of Lloyds to default  his account. I say 
this because when  an account goes into arrears  for a number of months, as Mr Cs did here, 
a business is entitled to issue a default.  As Mr Cs account remained  in arrears for some  
time I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to pass it to a debt management  company and issue 
a default. And the guidelines say that a default  should be recorded  on a customers  credit file 
Ref: DRN85140222to reflect  this. These guidelines are set out by the Information Commissioners  Office  and say 
that a default should  be recorded when the account  is in arrears by 3-6 months.
In Mr Cs case, the last payment he made to his account before the default notice was 
issued was on 6 April 2018. Lloyds also wrote to him on 20 June 2018 telling him what he 
needed to do to bring his account  up to date and what it could  do to help him. It also gave 
him information about where to seek independent help from free debt advice organisations, 
which I think was good advice in the circumstances. By July, Mr Cs account had been in 
default for 3 months and so Lloyds  was entitled  to issue the default notice it sent to him on 
21 July 2018.  This notice  clearly advised him he was in arrears  and in breach of his loan 
agreement as a result. It also told him how much he had to pay to bring the account up to 
date and what would happen if he didnt take action. 
At this stage, Lloyds  wasnt aware  Mr C was experiencing financial difficulties.  He only told it 
hed fallen into financial problems  later that month and, once aware,  Lloyds treated him 
positively and sympathetically as wed expect it to. From what  Ive seen, it discussed with 
him the possibility of exploring the help options  available and asked him to complete an 
income and expenditure form so it could consider a payment  plan. I understand Mr C 
declined being  sent this form and no payment  plan was ever put in place. Ive also seen 
evidence that Lloyds froze the interest on Mr Cs loan account and refunded some of the 
charges hed incurred on other accounts.  Treating  a customer in difficulties positively and 
sympathetically doesnt mean a bank has to waive or freeze interest.  It can take other  action 
instead, such as reducing the interest rate or restructuring payments, although  theres no 
obligation on it do so. So I think Lloyds did treat Mr C positively and sympathetically at this 
time and I think it went above  the steps Id expect a bank to take when approached by 
someone in financial  difficulty. 
Lloyds gave Mr C the opportunity  to set up a payment  plan. But he didnt do so and made 
only one further  payment  to his account. While  I understand  Mr C was under a great  amount  
of stress Lloyds showed it was willing to work with him to try and resolve the situation.  He 
didnt get in touch with Lloyds until November 2018 though.  I appreciate there were reasons 
why he couldnt  be reached by telephone but Lloyds also wrote to him on numerous 
occasions. So I think it took appropriate steps  to contact him to offer support and explain 
what would  happen  if his account wasnt brought up to date before it defaulted  his account. 
It follows that I cant say it acted unfairly  when it applied a default  on his account and passed 
it to a debt collection  agency. This was done  after Mr C had missed 9 monthly payments on 
a loan hed had for less than year. It was a decision Lloyds was entitled to take if a customer  
isnt meeting their contractual repayments.
I appreciate the default will affect Mr Cs credit score for some time. But, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds has reported  late payment information  properly. Financial businesses  should make 
sure that the information they report to credit reference agencies  is accurate. As Mr C hasnt  
maintained his account in line with its terms and conditions I cant  say Lloyds acted  unfairly 
and unreasonably in reporting  this information.  So I cant ask it to remove  it as its a true 
reflection of what happened. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr C brought this complaint to our service. And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong 
here and, because of this, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
Ref: DRN85140223My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514022