K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland PLC trading  as Halifax (BOS for short)  wont  refund 
some or all of a payment made on his credit card to a secondary  ticket selling website (the 
Website) for some  concert  tickets. 
background
In January 2019 two tickets were purchased through the Website  to attend  a concert using 
Mr S BOS  credit card. Mr S bought them  to attend  a concert  with his wife. The total cost 
charged to his card was just over £500.  BOS initially blocked the transaction  and sent Mr S a 
text message asking  if hed made  the transaction. Mr S replied that he had. The transaction 
was then debited  contrary to Mr Ss wishes as hed changed his mind.  The tickets  to the 
concert were  received  some time later and the concert was attended  by Mr S.
Mr S complained to BOS  because on receiving the text message he says he believed  
answering yes meant that the transaction  hed agreed to being part of wouldnt be paid. BOS  
said it hadnt done anything wrong. It didnt raise a chargeback or consider the matter  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think BOS had acted unfairly by declining Mr S 
request for a refund.  Mr S didnt agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear this complaint is about  BOS, as Mr S credit card account provider. Its not about 
the secondary ticket  selling Website, which isnt a financial service  provider and so doesnt 
fall within  my remit. Nor is about the original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell 
the tickets through the secondary ticket selling Website  which Mr S then bought. As this 
complaint is only about BOS Im only considering whether Mr S authorised BOS to debit his 
account with the value  of the payment, and whether it should  have helped with the dispute 
with the Website  in any other way.
Was the payment  authorised? 
The relevant  regulations  state that a payment out of someones account  can only be 
authorised if the payer has consented  to it. The payment service  provider (in this case  BOS) 
must also show the payment was authenticated.
Whether a payment has been authorised is relevant here because  broadly speaking, if a 
payment was authorised the account holder is liable; whereas if it wasnt,  theyre  not. This is 
set out in the Payment Services Regulations  and the account terms and conditions.  It should 
be noted that this consideration is specific to the time of the authorisation. If someone later 
regrets the transaction after authorising  the transaction that is a different matter.
So before anything else, Ive had to consider  whether Mr S authorised BOS to debit his 
credit card account for the amount debited by the Website. For the payment to be 
authenticated card details  needed  to be entered. I think  as Mr S entered  the details of his 
Ref: DRN81172042credit card on the Website,  he agreed  to transact  with the Website.  So as the order  went 
through, I think the payment was authenticated. And as such  the Website then presented the 
transaction to BOS.
It needs to be remembered transaction processes are heavily automated and in most cases 
entirely automated. As such the various  processes within the transaction  often happen 
almost instantaneously.
On BOS being put on notice of the transaction it blocked it for its own reasons. It then 
automatically issued  a text message to Mr S asking if hed made that transaction.  To which  
Mr S replied  yes.  Mr S states he only did this on the specific  basis of what the text 
message hed received actually said. In effect  it said by saying yes this wouldnt mean that 
transaction would  be paid.  Mr S arguments here are solid in my view but unfortunately Im 
not persuaded by them.  I say this because on balance the evidence  shows  that the Website 
put a second transaction to BOS for the same amount as Mr S agreed with it very soon after 
the first. 
On Mr S saying yes BOS removed the block on the transaction. And the second 
transaction that the Website had put forward (now unencumbered by the removed block)  
was successful and the amount was debited from Mr S account. I appreciate  that Mr S 
remains dissatisfied with this but what the text message said was true as if the website  
hadnt put the second transaction through the amount wouldnt have been debited. It was 
this second transaction, which was put to BOS by the Website which was paid. I appreciate  
Mr S may consider this to be semantics. But at the moment BOS  sent the text it was true. 
And it remained true afterward as it was another separate transaction  which was paid (albeit 
for the same amount).  BOS isnt responsible for the transactions put to it by other 
businesses or how they are put or if repeat transactions  are put to it.
I appreciate Mr S has latterly  said that the concert tickets were  of an inflated  price. But in my 
view, information  was given about the value of the payment Mr S was making at the time he 
made it. From what this service  has seen of the process buyers go through when  using this 
Website, by the time a buyer is asked to input  their payment details the full price is shown. 
And its shown on the final page  before a buyer  completes the transaction. So I think the full 
price was available to see. And I think Mr S completed the transaction.  
Taking all of this into account,  I think  on balance  the full cost of the transaction  was 
displayed at the time the ticket purchase was being  made and therefore  I think  the payment 
was consented  to and authorised. And considering  my position regarding  the text message it 
follows that I cant fairly and reasonably say BOS  wasnt  entitled to debit the account on the 
basis that the transaction wasnt authorised. As Mr S gave  his instruction for BOS to pay the 
Website and to charge  the payment to his credit  card, I think  it was fair for it to do that. So it 
follows that I cant fairly say BOS  should refund Mr S. 
could BOS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr S does 
here, BOS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback  process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where chargeback  has 
been successful.  But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide to 
refund the cardholder  for a variety  of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other  reasons along with the chargeback being successful through  the actual 
Ref: DRN81172043chargeback process.  So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt  necessarily  mean that 
every card issuer should refund every  transaction similar to this one.
I dont think BOS couldve challenged  the payment through the chargeback  process on the 
basis Mr S didnt properly  authorise  the transaction, given the conclusion  Ive already set 
out.
Having considered the Website it is clearly  a secondary ticket selling Website. I think  its 
clear the tickets are being purchased through the Website from a seller (who isnt 
representing the website). 
BOS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success  when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does, then it must do 
so properly. The Website would then receive that chargeback request and may agree to 
refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, then BOS  should consider 
this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback 
further and ultimately  to the scheme provider (not BOS) who will then make an independent  
determination on the matter. So BOS isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to 
refund or not when going through  the chargeback process.
BOS has said that there are no grounds for a chargeback and as such there  isnt a 
reasonable prospect of success, so Mr S hasnt  lost out.
In short  Mr S accepts at the time he wanted  to buy the tickets  at that price, authorised the 
transaction and got the tickets and indeed attended the concert. So I think  Mr S hasnt  lost 
out due to BOS  position on this matter. I think that even if it had gone through the 
chargeback process  its likely that it would have been unsuccessful  considering  the 
circumstances here.  So Mr S hasnt lost out.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ss BOS  s credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances,  he has an equal  right to claim against BOS  as he does  against  the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  says 
it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
Ref: DRN81172044So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr S, BOS and the 
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time, 
seat location and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, 
its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller  doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets.  
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100. Having considered  what  
happened here and the breakdown  of what Mr S paid Im satisfied on balance the financial 
limits of section 75 have been  met. 
Was there breach  or misrepresentation
Mr S accepts he made the transaction for the concert tickets, received the tickets and 
attended the concert. Mr S doesnt  argue the Website  breached  the contract and from what  
has happened on balance  Im satisfied there was no breach.
Similarly Mr S knew how much he was paying  for the tickets,  paid it and got the tickets which 
enabled attendance at the concert.  So Im not persuaded he was materially misrepresented  
into buying the tickets hed otherwise not have bought. Just because  tickets may have been  
available elsewhere  on more favourable terms doesnt mean he was materially 
misrepresented into the transaction  he otherwise wouldnt have entered. So I dont think he 
was materially misrepresented into the transaction.  And although Mr S changed his mind 
about the transaction and then changed it back again by attending the concert  I dont think  
this shows that he was misrepresented either.
In summary  I think that Mr S hasnt lost out because of BOS  decision not raise  a 
chargeback or to consider  this under section 75. He made the transaction  and benefited 
from attending the concert as he wished to. So I dont think  I can fairly require BOS to refund 
Mr S for the concert tickets (whether  in part or in total).
I do appreciate Mr S wont be wholly pleased by this decision particularly around the text 
message. But as I said this is a decision  about  BOS and not about the actions of the 
website. And as I dont  think  BOS  has done  anything wrong then I have decided  that BOS  
doesnt have to do anything further.
It has been said that the £30 offered by BOS hasnt been received by Mr S. Mr S should 
contact BOS if he wishes to understand whether that offer is still open, but I appreciate he 
may choose not to. But that is up to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland  Plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  15 August 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ref: DRN81172045ombudsman
Ref: DRN8117204