K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss P say Kensington Mortgage Company Limited mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004.
background
In September  2004 Mr R and Miss P took out a mortgage with Kensington. In 
December 2004  they began paying  a monthly  premium for a PPI policy.
In July 2005 the mortgage was redeemed and the PPI policy  ended.
Due to the time that has passed  there are few details  of the PPI policy available. According 
to records of the mortgage account  the policy  cost £31.54 per month and Kensington has 
told us it provided cover  against  accident, sickness and unemployment. From what  we know 
of this type of policy it is likely it would have paid a monthly benefit  equivalent  to the 
mortgage repayment for up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim.
An adjudicator from this service thought the complaint should  be upheld.  
Kensington disagreed with the adjudicators  findings. It told us it didnt sell the PPI policy  and 
the mortgage broker that arranged the mortgage  most likely sold it, although  it hasnt given 
us any evidence to support  this.
The complaint was then passed to me.
In July 2019 I issued my provisional findings and invited both parties to comment  and send 
me any additional evidence they wanted me to think about. A copy  of my provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold this complaint,  my main  
reasons were:
The mortgage was arranged by a mortgage  broker and completed in September  
2004. The PPI policy did not begin until December  2004.  I thought it unlikely a 
mortgage broker would  have  sold a PPI policy months after the mortgage  had been  
arranged and completed. So I thought it most likely Kensington contacted 
Mr R and Miss P after the mortgage began in order to sell the policy.
The policy was taken  out sometime after the mortgage was applied for and didnt 
begin until Mr R and Miss P had the mortgage in place for three  months. So I think  
its likely  theyd have been aware they didnt have  to take out the policy in order to 
obtain the mortgage.
Mr R and Miss P say they were unaware the PPI had been added  to the mortgage. 
Ive thought about this but its likely some application would have  needed to be 
completed and sent to the policy insurer in order for the policy  to be set up. 
Taking everything into account  I thought  Kensington  most likely  made  it clear  that     
Mr R and Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this after so many years.
Ref: DRN81167642Mr R told us he was the person covered  by the policy. Having taken into account      
Mr Rs circumstances at the time I thought that even if Kensington had provided all 
the clear information  that it should  have,  Mr R and Miss P would still have bought  the 
policy.
Kensington has not responded to my provisional  findings.
Mr R and Miss Ps representative  has replied  to my provisional findings. They say that as 
Kensington has not provided any evidence to refute  the adjudicators finding the complaint 
should be upheld.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Kensington has maintained it didnt sell the PPI policy but for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision I think its most likely Kensington was the seller.   
Kensington has told us it does not have any paperwork from the time of the sale and has 
limited information about  how or where  the sale took place. This isnt unusual and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. The mortgage 
and PPI were sold in 2004  and the mortgage  was redeemed in 2005. And I wouldnt expect 
a business to keep detailed records indefinitely.
But where there is limited  information, I will make  my decision  based on whats more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Mr R and Miss Ps representative  feels that because Kensington cant provide  any 
information and continue to dispute the sale of the PPI, then the complaint should be upheld.
Ive thought about this but I disagree.  Kensington has told us it holds no information  on the 
PPI sale. So even if Kensington  had agreed  it did sell the policy, it still would not be able to 
provide any evidence around how the policy was sold. So I dont think Kensingtons refusal 
to accept it sold the policy is a valid reason for me to find it was mis-sold.
Mr R and Miss P say the policy was added to the mortgage without their consent.  But I have 
to take into account  that these events took place 15 years ago and memories do fade. 
The mortgage had already completed when the PPI policy was put into place and from 
experience this suggests to me that some conversation  was likely to have been had in order 
to put the policy  into effect. And an application  form of some kind would likely have been 
necessary before the policy could have  begun.  So while I accept its possible the PPI was 
added to the mortgage without Mr R and Miss Ps knowledge, I think its more  likely 
Kensington contacted Mr R and Miss P after the mortgage began in order to sell the policy,  
though I can understand why Mr R and Miss P may not recall this after so many years.
Ref: DRN81167643Both parties  agree that no advice was given to Mr R and Miss P about the policy.  So 
Kensington didnt  need  to make sure the policy was right for them. But it did need to give 
them enough clear  information for them to decide  for themselves  if it was right for them.
It seems  the policy covered Mr R only. Ive looked  at his circumstances and from what  Ive 
seen he had a need for the policy. His employer did not provide him with sick pay and 
Mr R and Miss P have told us they had no savings to fall back  on if things went wrong. Mr R 
was eligible for the policy  and would  not have been  caught by any of the policys main  
exclusions or limitations. And Ive not been shown any evidence  that the policy was 
unaffordable. So even  if Kensington  had provided all the clear information it should  have, I 
still think Mr R and Miss P would have gone ahead and bought the policy.
It follows that I dont find the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision and in my provisional findings I dont uphold  
Mr R and Miss Ps complaint. And I make  no award against Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr R and Miss P say Kensington Mortgage Company Limited mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2004.
Ref: DRN81167644background
In September 2004 Mr R and Miss P took out a mortgage with Kensington. In December  2004 they 
began paying a monthly premium for a PPI policy.
In July 2005  the mortgage  was redeemed and the PPI policy ended.
Due to the time that has passed  there are few details  of the PPI policy available. According  to records 
of the mortgage account the policy cost £31.54 per month and Kensington has told us it provided 
cover against  accident, sickness  and unemployment.  From what we know of this type of policy  it is 
likely it would  have paid a monthly  benefit equivalent to the mortgage repayment for up to 12 months 
in the event of a successful  claim.
An adjudicator from this service  thought the complaint  should  be upheld.  
Kensington disagreed  with the adjudicators findings. It told us it didnt sell the PPI policy and the 
mortgage broker  that arranged the mortgage most likely  sold it, although it hasnt given  us any 
evidence to support this.
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive first thought about Kensingtons point that it didnt  sell the PPI policy. I note that the mortgage 
itself was arranged by a broker and began in September 2004. The PPI policy did not begin until 
December 2004 by which time Mr R and Miss P had already made  three monthly  repayments on their 
mortgage. I think it is unlikely a mortgage broker  would have sold them a PPI policy  after the 
mortgage had begun, especially as the monthly premium appears to have been taken with the 
monthly mortgage repayment. In my view its more  likely that Kensington contacted Mr R and Miss P 
after the mortgage began  in order to sell the policy.
Taking all this into account I think Kensington is responsible for the sale of the policy. 
Kensington hasnt been able to send the paperwork from the time and has limited information about 
the sale.  This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale 
took place. But where there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more  likely 
to have happened.
Im intending  to find that the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
The policy seems to have been taken out sometime after the mortgage was applied for and didnt 
begin until Mr R and Miss P had the mortgage for three months.  So I think its likely theyd have been 
aware they didnt have to take out the policy  in order to obtain the mortgage.
Mr R and Miss P say they were unaware  the PPI had been added  to the mortgage. Ive thought about 
this but its likely some  application would have needed  to be completed and sent to the policy insurer  
in order for the policy to be set up. 
Taking everything into account I think Kensington most likely made it clear  that Mr R and Miss P didnt 
have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  
remember this after so many years.
Ref: DRN81167645Kensington has told us it would not have given  Mr R and Miss P advice  about the policy.   And they 
have told us they cant  recall  receiving advice. This means Kensington didnt have to check if it was 
right for them.  But it did have  to make sure Mr R and Miss P got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them. 
After so many years I cant be sure exactly what information was given to Mr R and Miss P when  the 
PPI was sold to them. Its possible the information Kensington  gave them  about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. 
But I think they chose to take out the PPI so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.
Weve not been given much information about Miss Ps employment circumstances at the time of the 
sale. But Mr R told us the policy  provided cover for him only.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example hes told us he didnt have any 
medical conditions that would not have been covered. So he couldve claimed if he needed to.
And Mr R has told us his employer didnt provide him with any sick pay if he couldnt work, and that he 
had no other  resources such  as savings  he could  fall back on. So it looks like the PPI would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr R and Miss P off taking  out the 
cover. 
In summary, I think Kensington sold the PPI policy  to Mr R and Miss P. I think  its most likely it was 
made clear the policy  was optional  and they chose to take it out. And even if Kensington had given 
them all the clear  information it should have, I still think they would  have gone ahead and taken  the 
policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr R and Miss Ps complaint. And Im not intending to make any award  
against Kensington Mortgage Company  Limited.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8116764