K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has refused  to raise a chargeback  for a holiday 
membership.
background
Mr S says he paid over £10,000  for a holiday  membership in 2004. He says that product was 
misrepresented to him and says he was the victim of fraud. Mr S says he asked  Lloyds to 
raise a chargeback  on his behalf  but it refused  as he was out of time for doing so. He says 
the misrepresentation took place after the initial transaction  and that it should  be looked at 
under the exceptional circumstances rule. Mr S would  like his money refunded  to him.
Lloyds says it cant trace an account Mr S held with it and says the account information  he 
has provided relates to another  bank.  It says its subject to the chargeback rules which say a 
chargeback must be raised within either 120 or 540 days and so its out of time for raising 
one.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr S was outside the time limits for making  a chargeback request. The investigator  
also looked at a letter Mr S provided us with which appears to suggest Mr S paid for the 
membership by cheque  and so wouldnt be able to make a chargeback.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says we should  not simply agree  with Lloyds decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
The chargeback rules are not set by Lloyds  but by the card providers. There are strict time 
limits set by those providers which say that a chargeback must be raised  within either 120 or 
540 days. Its not clear  here which scheme  applies and which  time limit applies as Lloyds  
cant find an account for Mr S. But I dont  think it matters as Im satisfied that whichever time 
limit applies  Mr S made his chargeback request outside those time limits. So Im satisfied 
that Lloyds hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly  by refusing to make  a chargeback.
I can see that Mr S has provided  us with a letter from the holiday membership company. I 
can see that letter refers  to Mr S sending it a cheque for the cost of just over £10,000. So I 
think on balance it likely  that Mr S didnt pay by debit or credit card but by cheque and so he 
wouldnt have had any chargeback rights in any event.
I appreciate that Mr S says he has been the victim of fraud  and the membership was not 
what he was promised.  I am very sorry to hear that and Ive no doubt that has caused Mr S a 
significant level of distress and frustration. But I cant  fairly hold Lloyds responsible for that 
and Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt made a mistake here. For that reason I cant  fairly order 
Lloyds to refund Mr Ss money or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN80031762Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003176